ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska, Ms Katarzyna Osos, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz and Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha as secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, Mr Kinga Gajewska and Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members King Gajewska and Arkadiusz Myrch. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u2	Communication on Panel meetings on 17 March 2016 The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 10, - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 10, - Parliamentary Team - Members for Silesia and Zagłębie - hour. 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Organization of World Youth Days Kraków 2016 - h.m. 17, - Warmia-Mazury Parliamentary Team - h.m. 17. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Economy and Development - h.m. 9, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 13, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Infrastructure - hour 17, - Health-- hour. 18, - Senior policy in conjunction with the Health Commission - h.m. 6:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u3	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an amended report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the prevention of sexual crime threats, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The reports shall be printers 330 and 336 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 23. of the agenda: Revised report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, the Act amending the Civil Code Act, the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws, the Tax Administration Act and some other laws (prints No 312 and 355). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to submit an updated, revised report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, which was held yesterday, yesterday. The amendment is purely legislative, by referring to the relevant law, which changed the date of entry into force of the electronic accounting procedure. Originally, the Act referred to an amendment which had already postponed it once. On the other hand, it is reasonable and appropriate to refer to the amending act in which it is proposed to introduce the initial date of entry into force of the law, this procedure. Therefore, I would like to ask you to adopt the law in the text adopted by the committee at yesterday's meeting, taking into account this legislative amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u5	Thank you, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] However, High Sejm, I would ask you to stop talking in subgroups, and some countries, particularly Members, would ask you to turn to the speaker first. [[You're being disrespected by a marshal.]] I see Mr Smolinski. [[Applause]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Bravo!]] If you'd be kind to turn to me first, oh, yeah, we'll see you, it's very nice to see you. [[It wasn't an MP, it was his back.]] I would like to remind you that we are in the process of considering the first item of the agenda on this day. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the revised report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on this bill. We support the legislative amendments that were made yesterday after second reading at the committee meeting yesterday. The proposal is well-founded, so the club will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u7	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on this bill. Once again, it should be stressed that a project which does not raise objections to its substantive part is unfortunately still in breach of the principles of correct legislation. It is not possible to adopt a law which, in its content, covers two subjects of regulation, which should be regulated in two separate legal acts. Anyway, if we look at the title, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the draft law itself, we will already see that the draft does not fully comply with the principles that a rational legislator should follow. We therefore maintain our reservations that the procedure and circumstances of the adoption of this law do not fully comply with the standards in force in this Parliament, but we do not raise any objections to the substantive part of the objection. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u9	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind everyone that the clouurs are there, and if anyone wants to talk, it's peaceful there, and here we would like to talk about the substance, if you can support your marshal, who has already tried to do so. Oh, it's been quiet, thank you very much. Moving on to the merits of the case. I would like to note a positive change, not a good one, but a positive one, which is that there was a poorly prepared project. Technically, as my predecessor said, it was a good one, because it was necessary, but it was poorly prepared, because some shortcomings in the D.A.'s law were hidden under a different name. This is a big progress, because it is currently arranged in the right way, i.e. the necessary changes in the law on the prosecution, which resulted from making law on the knee, i.e. too fast, now have been removed and are not hidden. On the other hand, the most important thing in this project is the electronic submission of applications for perpetual books, which is important: this deadline was to be postponed, and now I see that it was restored to July again. This is difficult to consider as a bad change, this is a good change, although it was supposed to be April, then September, but we have July, which is a compromise. Let's look for compromises in everything, which is why Kukiz15 will support this change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u11	Please. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to the project contained in prints No 312 and 355, it must be stated that the most important article of this law is art. 2. Undoubtedly, the introduction of electronic accounting procedures seems to be a step in the right direction in the process of computerising official proceedings. At the same time, this should increase the certainty and stability of real estate obligations, not to mention improving the work of courts, bailiffs, notaries and tax authorities and the benefits that citizens will enjoy in the longer term. If the National Council of Notarials claims that the notariat is not yet ready to implement this system, with an example of the IT system of the State Election Commission, we should refrain from making changes for a few months so that the system is fully functional and the notaries and bailiffs serving it are fully prepared. In our opinion, there's no rush here. Thus, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the project, while expressing regret about the legislative technique, with which the project at the procession stage was in contradiction. We also regret that once again the ICT system cannot be implemented in one of the relevant areas at the initial time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u13	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present the position of the club on amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws. Already working on this project Poselski Club The modern one expressed great concern that the rush to proceed with this project would not have a negative impact on its content. As it turns out today, we have confirmation that unprepared projects should not be submitted. On the other hand, this project is of importance due to the delay in the deadline for the implementation of the ICT system, e.g. in the perpetual accounting system. It is important that this system is properly prepared and that notaries are able to submit electronic applications in this system. On the other hand, this project also consolidates the negative changes introduced by the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. Hence the Poselski Club The modern one will abstain in the vote on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u15	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask you once again to stop or at least keep your conversations down. The High Sejm, at the moment a representative of the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister Łukasz Piebiak, is asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Very briefly from this place: The Ministry of Justice supports this project. We would like, firstly, to thank the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs, that, although with some reservations, everyone wants to support this project and, secondly, to point out that this project is necessary in order for us to have a chance to launch on 1 July this year. with a fully functioning, proven IT system, which will improve the conduct of perpetual accounts, which is really going to make life easier for everyone. This law, the entry into force of which we are now relinquishing, was passed in the previous parliamentary term and would be irresponsible to bring it to a situation in which it enters on 1 April when the system is not yet fully tested. The date of 1 July is as appropriate as possible and hence the Ministry of Justice supports this initiative to move the entry into force of this whole system to 1 July so that there are no surprises for the system to become operational. Yes, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u17	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the third reading. We'll proceed with the vote. Are we prepared to vote? [[Game in the O.R.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 355 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 394 Members voted. 250 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, 144 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Act on Officials of the Courts and the Public Prosecutors, the Law on Procedure before Administrative Courts, the Act on Amendment of the Act of Civil Procedure Code and some other laws, the Act on Tax Administration and the Act on Amendment of the Civil Code Act, the Act of Civil Procedure Code and some other laws. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 20 hours 9 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, silence the conversation so that we can resume the session, please. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. Additional question [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary response may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Piotr Uściński and Jacek Sasin, the Law and Justice Club, on the staff deficit in the Wołomin District Court and the corresponding long waiting time for the hearing to be scheduled. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak will answer. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to ask a question. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The district court in Wołomin has been struggling for years with the lack of sufficient staff, both judges and other officials. Compared to the other courts within the District Court Warsaw-Prague in Wołomin, one official falls, depending on the department, by 25%. more work than the average in the whole circle. I will quote the data for the first half of 2015. In this period, 7 thousand people have been transferred to the penal departments of the Vołominian court. cases. With mid-term employment, 18.7 civil servants, 360 cases were made official. During the same period, in other regional courts under the District Court Warsaw-Prague, the average was 220 cases per official. 360 - in Volomin, 220 - in other courts. The above results in the fact that the Department of Criminal Courts in Wołomin is waiting about 2 years to set the first date of the trial. A similar lack of harm compared to neighbouring courts occurs in criminal departments, but also in civil, family, juvenile cases, and even in perpetual books. Minister, this is the paralysis of the justice system in the Vołominski district. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Minister about the reasons for this. Why in the Warsaw appeal for years has no one analysed the quantities of cases involved in the courts and why the necessary changes were not made in order to improve the functioning of the District Court in Wołomin? Is it planned to increase the number of posts in the Vołominian court in the near future, so that it acts like other courts? We really feel in Volomina that the justice system is slow, but I don't think it's entirely the fault of employees, officials, judges. There's just not enough of them for that number of cases. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u19	I understand that you are having very important discussions, but this makes it impossible both for Members to speak and for them to listen properly, so that I ask you very much to leave the plenary room or to conclude the discussions. Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, who have asked this question, indeed the situation of the court of Volomin is bad, although this is due to a number of reasons. It is not that the Minister of Justice does not monitor this situation, although in fact the district court should be primarily monitored at the level of the district court and the appeal court, because that is the structure, at least at this point in time. As regards the support of the Minister of Justice for the court of Volomin, it appears. Last year, on 7 January 2015, a single judicial post was assigned to Wołomin for civil purposes through the liquidation of a post in the Augustów District Court. To this day, the National Judicial Council has not filled this post, and therefore this post is on paper, which means it does not really work. During that time all other notices were executed, the judges had already taken action. This one, Wołomiński, is unlucky, but on the question of why the National Judicial Council has not made a decision today, I am unable to answer the High House. Secondly, by decision of the Minister of Justice of 8 April 2015, we moved again to the District Court in Wołomin, this time by removing him from the District Court in Jelenia Góra. The disciplinary court's ruling had to be enforced. As a result, a judge from Zgierz was transferred to that position. The same Judge from Zgierz has been continuously on sick leave since 11 May 2015. After this signal, we will try to determine what a disease it is that does not allow the judge to take any action for a period of nine months, especially in a situation where he has been transferred disciplinaryly, and therefore, as I understand it, he has received a warning about his suitability for service, and still does not carry out this service. In the near future, we're gonna be splitting up referenda jobs. Therefore, in this fatal situation, which I do not deny, the court of Volomin, at least in terms of those activities which may be carried out by referenda, we will try to assist it by means of referenda, because we simply do not have judicial posts, they are not planned in the budget bill, and if something is released somewhere, then we do analytics every time to see where this judge's post is allocated. There is a question of the long-term absence of another judge caused by illness. I hope it'll work out soon, too. There's another judge who's supposed to be back at work in April, which is pretty soon, next month. So, if these issues had ended, plus a judge who hasn't been ruling for almost a year would have started ruling, plus the National Council of the Court of Justice would have filled this post in the court of Volomin, then for such a court, with such a staffing position, support in the form of four judges who are going to work, plus possibly a referendar or referee in the context of this additional pitch, which the Minister of Justice will have in the near future, should significantly improve the situation. And I'm counting on it to happen in the near future. I stress that the placement of the court in Volomina against Poland, and not only other regional courts in the district of Warsaw and Prague is not bad, is comparable, is the average. The problem is just a very high percentage of absenteeism. I mean, we have jobs adjusted to influence, but these judges actually don't exist for all kinds of reasons. Secondly, there's a lot of arrears that makes judges unable to keep up with their work. I assume that's gonna change. The last explanation of this situation is so general. The Wołomiński court is a sub-warszaw court. Therefore, the same phenomenon we observe in Warsaw courts, and I am a Warsaw judge myself, we can see there. Very often people interested in the judicial service from all over the country apply to Warsaw or to the Warsaw courts, because here is the largest staff movement, and immediately after obtaining the appointment, they begin to apply for a transfer to the court somewhere near their place of residence, their family, etc., raising different circumstances. As a result, they are not connected to the area of the capital or Warsaw agglomeration. There is also such a case in Volomina, we have a judge who, for the fifth or sixth time, applies for a transfer to Bialystok or the Bialystok district, without being associated with this area, or rather trying to move at all costs. We assume she's less efficient and less dedicated to this job than she could have been. But this is a universal problem that affects all Warsaw and Warsaw courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u21	Would Mr Jacek Sasin like to ask an additional question? [[If you don't mind.]] Of course. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for these explanations. Of course, if they concern the judges, they satisfy us somehow. Although, of course, the problem... we're not sure that these judges will regain their ability to work anytime soon and that's gonna make things better. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you about one more element that the Minister left out in his speech. Namely, the court is not only judges, it is also all service that prepares cases for judges. And, as Mr Uściński said here, we see a very large discrepancy in the case of these other judicial staff, in relation to other courts subject to the District Court of Warsaw-Prague. As we have heard, given the much larger number of cases in court in Volomina, there are an average of 360 for one official of these cases and 220 for the remaining courts. From conversations [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the judges, we know that it's a narrow throat, too, that these cases could go on the stand faster if there were more of these officials. Can we get a minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u23	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u24	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, certain disparities are apparent, and here the Minister of Justice is not in the situation of a direct decision-maker and the authorising officer who simply decides where to move the judge, if, of course, it is possible to move the job, because the judge is not transferable. In the case of officials, this is essentially the responsibility of the Presidents. Finally, the President of the Court of Appeal in a group of officials makes some proposals on movements in the field of the official group, as regards each post. The Minister of Justice may or may not accept them. I agree with you as much as possible that even a sufficient number of judges will not help if there is a blockade on the executive side, i.e. judicial secretariats. I undertake to examine the situation in the field of office cast in more detail, because I have actually focused on this answer on the judge group plus referenda, and if these disparities are confirmed there, and I assume that yes, because the question is based on statistics, then we will work with the presidents to compensate for these disparities and, as far as possible, strengthen the personnel court of Volomiński. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u25	Thank you very much. The next question was joined by Members Sławomir Nitras and Paweł Olszewski, the Civic Platform Club. The question is on the consequences of the entry into force of the amendment to the Civil Service Act and is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will be responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers for the civil service of Dobrosław Dowiat-Urbański. I ask Mr Sławomir Nitras to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u26	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, on 23 January this year, an amendment to the law entered into force. It provided for the termination of employment with civil servants within the next 30 days if they were not offered other new working conditions and wages. The current rules provided that the applicant for a higher post in the civil service took part in a competition in which there were strict criteria, job requirements, for example. education, internship, managerial experience. Political party members could not apply for these functions. The amendment by the Law and Justice excluded the existing criteria of impartiality, competence, apolitical recruitment. Let me mention just a few shocking examples of appointment of officials without competition: Paweł Gilowski - General Director of the Regional Office in Lublin, Tomasz Waszczykowski - acting as Head of the Tax Control Office in Łódź, brother of one of the ministers, Angelika Konaszczuk - Deputy Head of the Civil Affairs Department of the Regional Office in Lublin, sister-in-law of one of the Members, Mirosław Sanek - General Director in the Ministry of Education, PiS activist. In view of the above, I would like to ask how many people at the date of entry into force of the Act were employed in higher positions in the civil service. How many employees have not been offered new working conditions? How many civil servants have been offered lower working conditions and wages? How many people have been offered conditions below the qualification? How many persons covered by the protection period, e.g. pregnant women - I know such cases when pregnant women are not offered jobs and are fired - workers who are in the pre-retirement period, are not offered new working conditions? How many people with disabilities said goodbye to working in the civil service? How many people are fired are those who are the only hosts of the family? How many people have experience in state administration after the amendment of the law? And the last question, but really important: How many of them are or have been members of the Law and Justice in the last five years? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u27	I understand that you want a written answer to all your questions. [[Yes, sir.]] In that case, I ask for an additional question if Mr Paweł Olszewski has it. [[Your marshal, but first, I think...]] But you also want an oral answer? [[For both questions, we'll ask you an answer...]] You're welcome. So I understand that this written reply is supposed to be an additional... [[Yes, Your Marshal, because many of this information... I hope the Minister is prepared, but to be precise... we would like them to be very precise.]] I see. The answer will be to the extent that you have prepared the Head of Civil Service, and the rest will be in writing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, I have the honour of speaking for the first time after 16 years as a civil servant before the High Chamber as Head of Civil Service to answer the questions of the Members under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers. Indeed, I will answer them orally to the extent that I have the data prepared and, to the rest of the extent that you are asking, this reply will be given in writing. On the date of entry into force of the amendment of the Civil Service Act, the last amendment, in higher positions in the civil service of the Prime Minister's office, in ministries, central offices, voivodships and voivodships of veterinary inspectors, because in these groups of offices there were higher posts within the meaning of the Act, a total of 1580 people were employed. As a result of the application of Article. 6 the amendment, which actually provided for the termination of employment relationships of those employed in higher positions after 30 days, unless new employment conditions are proposed to them, has expired on the basis of this provision a total of 212 persons employed in higher posts, i.e. around 13% the total number of higher posts. In each group of offices, these figures are as follows: in ministries of 780 employed persons, the employment relationship expired by 105 persons, i.e. 13%. , in central offices of 432 persons employment relationships expired 29, i.e. 7% , and in the voivodship offices and veterinary inspectors of almost 370 people employed in higher positions, the employment relationship expired to 78 people, i.e. around 21%. In this respect, which Members ask, i.e. how many of these people were in a protective period and in various other personal situations, we will try to gather information and give it in writing. However, I can already say today that from outside the civil service corps in higher positions in the civil service - those 1580 which existed at the time of the entry into force of the law, today these posts are slightly less - a total of 131 people were employed. This is not equivalent, High Izbo, except that these 131 people are people who do not have any experience at all in the civil service, because among them may have also found people who once, in the past, were already employed in government offices, while at the time of their appointment their professional status was such that they were outside the corps. And that's the number of 131 people. As far as party membership is concerned, the situation here is somewhat more complicated, because the Civil Service Act, both now and before the amendment, formulated a condition, i.e. prohibition of membership of a political party for persons employed in a higher position but during the period of employment. There was and is not a condition for the prohibition of membership of a political party within a period of 5 years or any period prior to taking a higher position in the civil service. Therefore, data on activity, membership of political parties before employment in the civil service are not collected and cannot in principle be collected. The labour law allows the employer to request a specific directory of information from the employee about it, a precise directory of data. For different personal data, including the course of a previous career, information may also be collected which is required to be provided under separate rules. Such a separate provision in our case would be the Civil Service Act, which, however, allows the candidate to request a statement from him that he is not and will not be a member of a political party, but does not allow him to request information or a statement as to whether he was a member of a political party in the past. Hence the lack of such data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u29	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Paul Olszewski for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You said yourself you've been in the CID for 16 years. I congratulate you on your position, but don't you have the impression that, in principle, as an extremely experienced official, this bill is a specific death sentence for civil servants? The figures you cited regarding the number of people who have been unemployed, including experienced officials, indicate this. On the other hand, I would like the Minister to be very specific about what Mr Nitras was asking, namely how many people, however, when they got a job, were members of political parties. That's the key. These examples, which you have mentioned, are selective examples, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the media are very precise, such as the last newsweek, or the log of the "Facts," and they give specific cases of people employed, to say the least, rather not with a competence key, but rather with a political, family key. You're the head of the civil service that legitimizes it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u31	Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u32	Thank you very much. I thank you very much for congratulating me on taking this position. The act in this form was intended to be adopted by the High Chamber and the Head of Civil Service as a civil service government authority and by the entire civil service corps, in the manner in which it was adopted by the High Chamber, to implement the law. Returning to the question of political affiliations of persons who have been employed in higher positions in the civil service, I repeat - such data are not collected by the Head of Civil Service and employers and are not entitled to collect them because they go beyond the data catalogue that the employer may request from the employee or candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u33	Thank you very much. The next question was joined by Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz, 15, on the unlawful charging and enforcement of VAT by bailiffs for enforcement fees. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice - a moment, Mr Piebiak, until I read it to the end - and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak will answer. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The case concerns, my question relates to the unlawful addition of VAT to the chamber enforcement costs, to remuneration. In practice, the point is that to every 100 zlotys collected by the bailiff in the form of remuneration, there are 18,7 zlotys, counting the method of VAT. This makes each debtor pay more than he owed, for VAT. In this case an interpretation of the Minister of Finance was already made, and instructions were given as to how this tax should be calculated, and an interpretation of the Tax Chamber in Katowice. In order to put an end to this, I will say that the resolution of the bailiff's council was challenged by the Minister of Justice to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court was right to the Minister of Justice, stating that VAT is at the expense of enforcement fees. However, bailiffs, disregarding the interpretation of the Ministry of Finance and the ruling of the Supreme Court, continue to charge additional VAT in addition to enforcement fees. So I have a question for the Minister and the Attorney General: Is he going to prosecute bailiffs in connection with this kind of business? This question is also asked in connection with the fact that from all over Poland there are signals about various unlawful behaviours of bailiffs. I'd like an oral and written answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u35	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebak. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u36	Dear Marshal, my name is Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u37	I'm sorry. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: In answer to the Member's question and thanking him for this question - indeed the problem is the Ministry of Justice is aware of its existence. As you have rightly said, on a legal basis, the matter seems quite obvious, because it was at the request of the Minister of Justice... that is, the Minister of Justice challenged the resolution of the National Chambers Council, precisely the one according to which VAT had to be charged an additional enforcement fee, which, of course, increases the burden on the debtor, and the Supreme Court divided the rights of the Minister of Justice. This is a resolution. The Supreme Court, in Case III ZS 10/15 of the Supreme Court, repealing the resolution of the National Chambers Council of 15 September 2015. As you rightly point out, the position of the Ministry of Finance is clear in this respect and the bailiffs should not add VAT to the enforcement fee and this VAT is already included in the enforcement fee. In short, the burden on debtors should be lower and not higher. Unfortunately, the bailiffs do not want to comply with the quite clear rules that apply to them, claiming that they can give their own interpretation in their decisions to determine the amount of the enforcement fee and the Minister of Justice or the Minister of Finance, or that anyone else is not able to order anything here because they have a way of appeal to the regional courts in the context of a complaint against the actions of the bailiff. Regional courts, as far as we know, when recognising the actions of the bailiff, seem to share most of the view that there is no basis for adding VAT to the enforcement fee, but we also know the opposing judgments issued by the courts when recognising the actions of the bailiff. Of course, one might wonder whether, in such a situation, there is no basis for disciplinary action against bailiffs who do so. But this is a delicate matter, because it is a matter of their judicial or quasi-decision independence in determining the costs of execution proceedings. For this reason, it seems most appropriate to regulate this situation precisely, so that there is no doubt on the statutory road. And this issue is already in the area of interest appointed by the Minister of Justice of the Group to develop a draft law on bailiffs and a draft law on enforcement costs, in order to remove any doubts in this regard existing. At the moment, it is not the Minister of Justice, and the courts recognize the actions of the bailiff. I assume that, regardless of any change, the number of situations in which the courts will rule contrary to the Supreme Court, the interpretation of the Minister of Finance, the interpretation of the Tax Chamber, etc., will be negligible, but the case law of the courts of the Minister of Justice obviously has no influence. Thank you. Would Mr Jerzy Jachnik like to ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u38	Minister, it is a novelty to me that the courts rule on the costs of bailiffs differently, so could you, in this written reply, which I request, state the caselaw of those courts which rule differently? Because it's just a scandal for the courts to take different decisions in such an obvious case, because it's a lack of competence. That's one thing. Secondly, I just wanted to ask if there were any work going on on the bailiffs bill. Because it was loud about it, now the case is gone, so I don't know if the subject has fallen or if there's going to be a change of law. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u39	I'll answer that, sir. As far as this first addition is concerned, I am actually not able to give specific cases and specific judgments here, from the Parliamentary Speaker. Information shall be provided in writing in response to this part of the question. As far as the second point is concerned, as I mentioned in the first part of my statement, the team of the Minister of Justice - the team is working intensively to draft the bill on court bailiffs and the bill on enforcement costs. The work is very intense, there is Director Reiwer in the Chamber, who, under the chairmanship of Minister Jakiego, is coordinating this work, and I think that in the near future the High House will have an opportunity to deal with this draft normative act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u40	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering these questions. [[Thank you, too.]] The next question was joined by Members Jerzy Meysztowicz, Monika Rosa and Elżbieta Stępień, the Modern Club, on strategy of action, funds dedicated to fighting smog in Poland, as well as staff changes in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We all know the condition of air in Poland. Due to the enormous concentration of particulate matter in the air, the European Commission has referred Poland to the European Court of Justice. In 2014, the daily limit values for particulate matter in air were constantly exceeded in 35 out of 46 air quality zones in Poland. I just wanted to say that this morning air pollution in Krakow exceeded five times the acceptable standards. This indicates that we are not dealing with a few percent, with a dozen percent, with a few percent overshoot, but by several hundred times this is over. It has come to light that these installations which investigate the state of pollution are no longer located only in Małopolska, but throughout the country, and it turns out that this problem does not only concern the south of Poland, but in other areas and elsewhere in the country is similar. I would also like to draw attention to a quite important fact. Namely, research indicates that every year due to complications resulting from diseases to which smog contributes, 45 thousand people die in Poland. persons. It is simply unacceptable that, after so many reminders from the European Union, we still cannot deal with this problem. My question concerns the strategy adopted by the Ministry of the Environment and what action it intends to take through the National Environmental Fund. To be honest, we are very concerned about the situation in which the amendment to the budget that has been tabled by the Modern, [[♪ The bell ♪]] with an additional 50 million has not been supported, 20 million from the national environmental fund to LIFE has been deleted, and recently 20 people, who were the main air quality specialists in the national environmental fund, have been released. The question is: What is the strategy for fighting smog prepared by the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u42	Please respond to Minister Sławomir Mazurka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against smog, the issue of improving air condition This is a very important element of what is known as the State's environmental security, and what is the main task of the Minister of Environment. We attach great importance to this, we are taking very important actions in this area, here especially the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also remember that President Andrzej Duda has signed a law that has equipped local governments with effective tools to improve the air condition in cities. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management has been funding the elimination of low emissions for 25 years and is still one of the priorities of the Fund's activities. The recent organisational changes aimed at concentrating national measures and funds from the European Union in a single department. This will better manage the available resources, make more effective use of them for the benefit of beneficiaries and eliminate emissions. The financing of air protection will thus be more effective and effective. Public money will be better used. There are 100 people working in the national fund in various organisational cells, especially in the field of funding for the protection of the atmosphere, so let's see what the proportions are here. The aim is also to manage resources efficiently. In addition, a new energy advisory project has been launched throughout the country in recent weeks. This project is called the National advisory support system for the public, residential and business sectors. energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. This advisory project is implemented in Poland for the first time, it is unique on a European scale, because it covers the whole country and not just one region, and today we said that this problem is not only local, but it concerns a wider circle. This project has created a nationwide network of 76 advisors to assist with low-carbon decommissioning projects. This project has been highly assessed by the European Commission, here we are still in relation to the European Commission and we agree on these matters. It is indicated as a model approach to atmospheric protection. The project is financed entirely by the European Union, and the agreement on its implementation was signed with the Minister of Energy last week, so it is a fresh matter, which is why I thank you for this question, because we can talk about it today. The project is financed entirely, as I said, from European funds, so these funds do not come from the state budget. Finally, the low-emission programmes have different economic efficiency. The unit cost of achieving environmental effects in individual programmes can vary up to 10 times. We are currently analyzing these programmes and we will develop programmes that are effective, also cost-effective, whose environmental effect is optimal. This action is about the good use of public money in the elimination of low emissions. We will follow this problem, we will also strengthen air monitoring so that we always have good, certain data in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u44	Thank you very much. Do any of the Members whose names I have just read want to ask an additional question? Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u45	Minister! I didn't get an answer to a good case because I'm afraid the ministry of environmental protection is under-coordination. I mean, I miss such a clear position: well, we're going to fight for the quality of solid fuels, which means we're going to introduce standards when it comes to the possibility of burning in furnaces. I miss the actions aimed at certifying the furnaces that are in production in Poland, which are in such a state at the moment, that it can actually be said that they are the main source of low emissions. There are no approvals, no standards, no standards that would actually raise the requirements for manufacturers. It's uncoordinated. You were talking about EU funds. How am I supposed to treat the action of the national environmental fund, which first gives the board for LIFE and promises to give 20 million PLN for this programme, and then withdraws and now generously says that it can give a loan? If this money isn't found and the loan isn't a grant, this program may be in jeopardy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. 45 million from the European Union could be lost. I do not know whether this type of action can be regarded as very radical and as protecting the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u46	You're welcome, Minister, to answer the question asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u47	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, air protection is a very important element for us. We're putting it into a wider field of atmospheric protection. We are very active in the European Union in this area when it comes to climate policy. The Minister who is also involved in this, Minister Paweł Sałek, is actively taking part in meetings with the European Commission. This isn't a case we can handle in three months. During those eight years that were earlier, emissions were not made to fall dramatically for the inhabitants, but certainly some good steps were taken - the said law which the local authorities equips with these tools. The National Fund is operating within the legal limits, trying to make effective use of those measures that will actually help reduce low emissions. As far as P10 and P2.5 emissions are concerned, it is important to measure carefully, to know precisely, because in 2005 as part of the CAFE programme, when such a map was made with regard to dust, there were some doubts about the origin of dust. You have to take this, too. to manage these effectively, efficiently to improve the air condition to promote the health of residents. These priorities, which Minister Jan Szyszko, Prof. Jan Szyszko, puts before us as the head of the Ministry, are consistent with what I said, are consistent with the strategy of the National Environmental Fund in this area, as illustrated by this programme. This programme, of course, also requires commitment on the other hand, but this allows us to achieve some synergies in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u48	Thank you very much. Members Wojciech Kossakowski, Adam Ołdakowski and Kazimierz Starzdowski from the Law and Justice Club - a question about the contract for the implementation of the project "Construction of equipment for recycling waste batteries and production of lead and its alloys in Korsz" under the Operational Programme "Infrastructure and environment." The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek. I know that there are representatives of the people of Korsa in the audience, [[Applause]] so they will have the opportunity to listen to questions and answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! For 3 years the inhabitants of Mazury Korsza have been protesting against the actions of Zap Sznajder Battery Recycling Plant in their city and are striving to close it. The plant started its activity on 1 January 2011. It is the only leadworks in Warmia and Mazury. It was built and operates with a gross violation of the law - 60 m from the houses, on the groundwater reservoir, without proper geomembrane sealing and in the immediate vicinity of the only shot of drinking water for the city. Inspections of the plant have revealed numerous cases of exceeding the maximum levels of lead in vegetables, fruit, water and atmospheric air. This poses a real threat to the environment and people. The most fertile soils in Warmia and Mazury in the municipality of Korsza may not be suitable for agricultural production, which will deprive a large group of farmers of livelihoods. The lead factory employs 30 people, most of them on the so-called. self-employment. Minister, please answer us: What is the position on the Battery Recycling Plant ZAP Sznajder Batterien SA in Korszach?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u50	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Sławomir Mazurka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question. When you follow the documentation, when you look at the rules, what the officials are doing, it's a very interesting experimental field. But the practice of what is happening in Poland, in many areas, especially in areas related to waste management, confirms us in one way that our actions related to strengthening environmental services are a good direction. Ladies and gentlemen, powerful European resources have been spent on installation, which raises great doubts. As far as the social side is concerned, the demands in this area have been addressed from the outset to the administration, but they have not been properly received and certain actions have not been carried out. There's a prosecutor's case in progress. The procedure is pending, so it is difficult to prejudice whether the beneficiary, and these are European funds, will not be taken away. Because if they confirm, and all this indicates, the requests addressed to us, the opinions addressed, then it will actually turn out that this installation is completely illegal, acting on the basis of conflicting decisions. When I asked about this installation in the inspection, you know, the tests were done, they were checked. But let us also remember that environmental inspectors only enter certain areas after 7 days of notification, and 7 days is quite a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, I am the person in the Ministry who oversees the activities of the Chief Environmental Inspector. We will pay great attention to such matters. Also in this case, we will take action to analyse the current state of monitoring, background monitoring, because such continuous monitoring is installed there at the moment, while waiting for the prosecutor's office on this issue. If these irregularities are confirmed, which are indicated by the social side and by some authorities, there will be a review of the measures that this installation has received. On our part, there will certainly be actions aimed at checking this, measuring and ensuring the safety of people who live near this installation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u52	I ask Mr Adam Oldakowski to ask for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u53	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! The recycling plant of lead-acid batteries in Korszów was built 60 m from the nearest residential buildings. You must also know that lead-acid batteries are devices that threaten the explosion and can cause a very dangerous fire. The plant also has very large storage areas, where it can store several hundred tons of waste batteries at the same time. This is enough to include it in establishments with a high risk of a major industrial accident. Why wasn't the battery recycling facility in Korszów included in the increased risk plants or high risk plants for a major industrial accident? The plant was built and an EU grant of PLN 4 061 352 was granted under the operational programme for the construction of waste batteries and lead production facilities and their alloys in Korszów. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer: How have they been cleared? What were the economic and environmental effects? This is what the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and the Environment was supposed to do. Besides, Minister, I have something to add. If the controllers were not allowed in during the operation of the plant and this inspection only appeared after the production was extinguished, how could it be established that the operation of the plant was correct? And there were a lot of cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u54	You're welcome, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u55	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u56	...to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, thank you very much for asking how after 7 days you can say that everything is okay. Therefore, it is necessary to analyse the current state of monitoring that is taking place there, but this is air monitoring. We approach this subject with a lot of attention. Further to your previous question, it can be said, without even waiting for the prosecution's opinion, that in Korszów, in 2013 and 2014 the activities carried out in the field of the processing of hazardous waste of code 16 06 01 were incompatible with what is in the integrated permit, i.e. the conditions which were imposed on the installation were not respected. And this - we can say so today - has led to exposure to the negative effects of both the inhabitants of Korsz and the various elements of the environment. So it's not a small thing, it's a big deal. Here state authorities must take a very clear position to ensure that citizens are safe. To answer your question - yes, the total value of the project was 15 million, the funding amounted to PLN 4 061 352.28, to be exact, of which 4 million were European funds. Once we have the final position of the prosecution, which confirms the various kinds of observations, there will be a procedure for taking these measures away. Because it is not our will, it is the European law which regulates this procedure in this regard. If the relevant objectives are not achieved or if they are not carried out unlawfully, these measures must be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u58	Thank you very much. Tomasz Piotr Nowak and Andrzej Czerwiński from the Civic Platform club signed up for the next question. The question is about the introduction of conventional energy support mechanisms and the Capacity Market Act. It is addressed to the Minister of Energy. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Andrzej Piotrowski will answer. Ask me a question. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Investment processes in Polish conventional energy are currently at risk due to the fall in prices for electricity and the inefficiency of coal power plants and the increasing share of energy from RES in the energy balance. Low profitability of conventional energy is a problem with obtaining investment and modernisation credits. Poland's energy security requires the implementation of support mechanisms as soon as possible. One such solution could be a power market that would finance the readiness of coal power plants to stabilise electricity supply in the event of supply interruptions, e.g. from RES. In the previous term, two concepts of the power market were presented in the Ministry of Economy: decentralised and centralised, which was applied in the UK and notified by the European Commission. The application of the support mechanism is particularly important for the Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów-Adamów-Konin, which, unlike other energy producers, does not have distribution networks that currently generate the highest revenues. PAK has modernized power blocks 1 and 2 in Pątnów and, due to bad market conditions, stops necessary repairs of units 3 and 4. PAK produces 7% electricity at national level, is the largest employer in the horse region, employing several thousand people with subsidiaries. The further deterioration of the situation of the PAK could lead to an energy threat of the country, while in the horse region - an unimaginable unemployment crisis. Therefore, please answer: Does the Ministry of Energy plan to implement system-based support mechanisms for conventional energy? Does the Ministry and when provide for the implementation of the Power Market Act? Will the Capacity Market Act be based on British experience in order to obtain the approval of the European Commission as soon as possible? Will the Ministry intervene to improve the situation of energy producers such as PAK, producers without distribution networks and selling only on the wholesale market? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u60	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to thank you very much for this question, because it shows how the results of our predecessors' energy policy are in the lens. This policy was followed by a policy on RES in some countries of the European Union, which generate, not all, the current in an episode, depending on weather conditions. Such sources include windmills, such sources include photovoltaic panels. I would like to point out that in the energy mix of RES, these two ways of generating renewable energy dominate. This is due to the use of instruments not taking into account the characteristics of the source. Therefore, in order to ensure that citizens have permanent access to energy, we need to use conventional sources. And here you are absolutely right that these sources, in combination with the mechanisms that have been implemented, are in economic difficulties. These problems lead to a situation where the wholesale price of electricity is abnormally different from the retail price. Why? In fact, instruments are incompatible with the management of power availability, ensuring the availability of conventional energy sources at times when the wind is not blowing when there is no sun in sufficient quantity. Therefore, the work that we have now undertaken is going in two directions. On the one hand, the situation really needs a quick solution, and we are therefore considering a mechanism that would be a mechanism to pay for power availability - and I will mention that this mechanism, which the United Kingdom has applied, has the advantage that it can be introduced relatively quickly due to the simplicity of this idea - on the other hand, the disadvantage of this mechanism is that it introduces another factor to remove market mechanisms from the energy sector in favour of certain previously unguided market support mechanisms. Let me put it this way, as part of the modernization processes started in dozens of conventional energy producers, we are clear that in all these processes there are perturbations, that they are not performed temporarily and it is difficult to say that this is just the reason for the difficulty of assessing the cost-effectiveness of these projects in the market, which is at the moment very badly disturbed. There is a mess there, and this mess is due to this, not another management of these processes, and staff changes were needed. On the other hand, we have a situation in which the outgoing boards of certain energy companies have still signed contracts for unstable energy sources in recent days, for the purchase of whole projects carried out e.g. on the basis of windmills. And that's all we have to deal with. On the other hand, we cannot promise that we will introduce instruments that will somehow help the business models of these players in the energy market, who have decided only to have generation sources, but have not decided to invest, for example. in distribution. This is a business decision. On the other hand, we are aware that as an energy market, we need to introduce a mechanism that, from conventional sources, will provide sufficient power, so that both home and business will not run out of electricity. And we're working on that mechanism. Such an amendment to the Energy Law is being prepared and we believe that this is a matter of individual months when we will be able to present this solution to you, the High House, for evaluation. So that's our answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u62	I would like an additional question from Mr Andrzej Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u63	Thank you very much. Minister, I was amazed to hear what you said. Perhaps the question we were about to ask was given to you too early and inaccurately. Our question was specifically about the source of financing for energy or conventional production, with emphasis, here the Member clearly said, on the sources of financing for PAK's investment. These things are in jeopardy. One of the financing solutions is suggested by us and prepared previously in the Ministry of Economy so-called. power market, which is a law that can finance production in a long-term programme. There may be other alternatives, e.g. The mechanics bill... of differential contracts. In short, please tell us not what distribution, what transmission, what RES, but what the Prime Minister said she had a package of laws, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will solve the problem of reconstructing, producing conventional energy sources.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u64	I'm asking you to answer me. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u65	I am pleased, Mr President, that you believe that, after 2.5 months, we should already have the laws ready, which you will have for eight years... [[I count four months, not two and a half till November 19th.]] The Ministry of Energy has existed since January 2... since January 1. This does not change the fact that the problem needs to be solved. This problem must not be an accidental solution aimed at a single company. Right? So this is where we agree. The power market is one of the instruments we are considering. And to sum up: if we decide to go with a model similar to the British model, it will be a model adapted to most of the sources that we should be ready at this point, and it will be a model that is precisely that we will provide the reserve. On the other hand, the cost-effectiveness of specific projects, even if they affect a certain number of jobs in a given region, must be assessed individually. Let me remind you of the order: first such cases should be solved by the owner, and the state becomes involved when the owner fails. We hope, we wish the owner that his business strategy is consistent and tailored to the ability to generate both electricity and profits, jobs and to be part of the economic system of Poland. We as a government will try to create opportunities for everyone, and as I said, this solution will be ready within individual limits. 2, 3 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u66	Thank you very much. Andrzej Szlachta, Jerzy Bielecki and Bogdan Rzońc from the Law and Justice Club joined the next question. The question is about the implementation of the S19 expressway on the section of Rzeszów - Lublin and Rzeszów - Babica in 2016 and the prospects for work on this road from Kuźnica Białostocka to Barwinka. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Jerzy Szmit will answer. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Our question concerns the implementation of the S19 expressway, which is a fundamental part of the new north-south connection called Via Carpatia, which includes Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece. This is a very important corridor of the eastern border of the European Union, which has mostly been integrated into the TEN-T comprehensive network. The Polish section of the road S19 from Kuźnica Białostocka to Barwinka has a length of 609 km. My question concerns the implementation of a section of this road in Podkarpacie, whose length is 174 km. So far, during the reign of the PO-PSL coalition, 12.7 km of this road has been carried out, which represents about 7% the whole of this episode. Currently, there is a 6.3 km long section of Rzeszów - Świlcza to Kielanówka and a 12.5 km long section of Sokołów Małopolska - Stobierna. Minister, when will the next episode in the direction of Barwinek be completed, the section of Rzeszów-South - Babica with a length of 10.3 km, and what is the source of funding for this section? The next part of the question will be answered by Mr Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u68	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The S19 expressway is one of the most important communication links of Eastern Poland. For many years, residents, entrepreneurs, local government officials have been demanding this merger. They expressed this in the public consultation on the development of the National Road Construction Programme for 2014-2023, in which they demanded the completion of this road in full length, from Barwinek to Kuźnica Białostocka. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government intends to accelerate the implementation of the S19 over the whole length. What are the preparations for this investment on individual sections? I'd like to ask you why...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u70	Mr President, why don't we finish this part of the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u71	One last question, very short.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u73	Why is it taking so long to select a contractor for the construction and design of S19 in the section from Lublin to the border of Lublin and Podkarpackie voivodships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u74	I would like to ask Minister Jerzy Szmit for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, I completely agree with Mr Andrzej Szlachta's statement that Via Carpatia in the Polish area, which is above all the road S19, is one of the key investments, one of the most important tasks that the government has put before it in this term of office. May I mention the conference held on 3 March in Warsaw, attended by transport ministers and representatives of the countries through which the Via Carpatia route runs, and I am thinking of representatives of Hungary, Ukraine, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Turkey. This communication route is a huge undertaking, extremely important for Eastern Poland. For the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło is one of the most important investment tasks. It's a preliminary statement, but it shows a lot. The degree of progress of individual sections of S19 in Poland is very different. But I will start by presenting the answer to the question which Mr Andrzej Szlachta just asked concerning the section of Rzeszów-South [[Kielanówka]] - Babica. On 6 November 2015, the Regional Environment Director in Rzeszów issued a decision setting environmental conditions. This is a very important decision, and further action depends on it. In addition, the subject of the same procedure by WDOŚ is further section S19 to the state border with Slovakia, i.e. from Babica to Barwinka, about 75 km long. This environmental decision has been obtained and today we can really move on to the next stages. Unfortunately, the big problem is the fact that in this further section from Babica to Barwink the expected cost of implementation is over PLN 6 billion, so we are really talking about a very serious financial commitment. But as for the episode to Babica, after getting... At the moment, the management has issued an environmental decision. We can say that there will be further action, a tender will be drawn up. This will still be conditional on ensuring full funding. This is full funding, ensuring - not only on this section, but also on other sections of the S19 - it still requires a lot of work, because these sections in the current national road construction programme left by our predecessors did not have any funding. Now this funding must be provided. We are taking actions, which we have already mentioned several times, concerning the reduction of road construction costs in Poland. It is about the possibility of making more investments. We are aware that these expectations, which concern both Via Carpatia and this particular section of the South Rzeszów - Babica, must find a concrete solution within a few months. To answer the second question, which concerned the entire course of S19, I can provide the following information: S19 in the section Lublin, Dąbrovica knot - Konopnica knot. Length: approx. 10 km. On 29 October a contract was signed with the contractor. Expected completion: November 2016, that is this year. Episode Lublin - Kraśnik. On 21 August, a tender was announced. The contract is scheduled to be signed this month, so work will be undertaken within 2-3 months after the contract has been signed. Odsek Kraśnik - border of the voivodship between Podlaskie Voivodship and Lublin Voivodship. Distance, length: 38 km. Signing the contract also in March this year. Further border of Lublin and Podkarpackie Voivodship to Niska. A distance of 25 km. The agreement was scheduled to be signed in May this year. Episode Low - Sokołów Małopolska. The planned signing of the contract with the contractor is scheduled for May 2017. Sokołów - Stobierna. Projected completion: June this year, so this is already far-reaching. Ślcz Episode - Rzeszów-South, Kielanówka. Projected completion: August this year. So the degree of advancement, especially on this southern S19 between Lublin and Rzeszow, leads to great optimism. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 2018 we will already be able to travel on most sections without obstacles, using this new road. The European Commission's decision, which was announced yesterday, also ensured the financing of these projects, so we can still expect the completion of these investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u76	Would any of you like to ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] Which one? [[Andrzej Nobletta.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u77	Minister, there was some optimism, especially in this part of the southern implementation of the S19 road. That information you gave me about this conference. I would still like to refer to the conference held in Przemyśl with the participation of partners from Hungary and Slovakia, with the participation of Minister Adamczyk. It will probably be very difficult to set such a target date, but I would like to ask: When will the recovery take place in the northern part of the implementation of the S19 road? How does the Minister assess the involvement of the southern partners, the Slovaks and Hungarians, in the implementation of this transit path, which is important not only for Poland but also for the whole of Europe? What is the involvement of the Slovak and Hungarian parties? What are the projections for this section? When will we be able to travel from Poland to the south of Europe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u78	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! If you want to assess your commitment, and in fact maybe the level of preparation of this route in individual countries, you can certainly see the strongest will and determination on the Hungarian side. There are already very specific deadlines, which are relatively short in terms of building those sections that are going through Hungary. Slovakia is in a slightly more difficult situation. There, indeed, these terms are far more distant. If we are talking about deadlines, in Hungary most of this route will be finished in 2018, so here really is a serious commitment from Hungary. Further south, Romania. There's consciousness there, too. So for today, let's say, it's about 1/3 of this route, as far as Romania is concerned. I think that these conferences, the previous one and the Warsaw one, offer an opportunity to obtain additional funding from the European Union. The problem today is, among other things. on the fact that a significant part of the Via Carpatia process is not on the network of European TEN-T communication corridors. One of the most important political tasks we face is to ensure that the entire course is in this network. It is then possible to better finance, it is easier to seek funding. However, I will say this: in addition to this international commitment it is also extremely important to accept these projects in individual countries, even in Poland. Because, of course, here in the High House, we have repeatedly discussed the programme of building national roads, about the fact that certain choices have to be made, that something will happen earlier, something will happen later. And here too, we must ensure that acceptance for the Via Carpatia road is simply universal. These are very serious tasks. I mentioned this episode from Barwinek to Babica, which is over PLN 6 billion, so we are talking about really gigantic projects. These are, in fact, costs that are only so-called today. investors, so they will probably be limited in the tender, but these are huge projects which must also be accepted by the public and not only by those involved who are on a route of one or another. We will be able to talk more about this at the end of the year when we present our programme on cost reduction in construction, rationalisation of road construction in Poland, as regards technology, law, public procurement. There's work going on here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On April 5, we will show the first results of our work. We will invite the entire infrastructure environment to debate on this subject so that these tenders, which will be organised at the end of the year, can already be conducted under new conditions, on a more reasonable basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u80	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. [[Thank you.]] Tomasz Kostus and Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Club, joined the next question. The question on the opening of negotiations on the territorial contract is addressed to the Minister of Development, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Jadwiga Emilewicz. I ask Mr Tomasz Kostusi to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u81	Dear Marshal! Minister! Territorial contracts are agreements between government and local governments on the implementation of the largest, most important investments by 2020. This is a list of strategic projects: road, rail, energy, water, which have identified sources of funding, both national and EU. In the design of the creators, territorial contracts were to be a modern and, above all, an effective tool for conducting regional development policy. The territorial contracts have finally been changed by all cases here in this Chamber in the last weeks and months. I would like to remind you of the debate on the exposé of the Prime Minister, the budgetary debate or, finally, the questions and questions at hand. However, so far we have not obtained a precise answer to the questions and doubts asked, in particular as regards the acceptance of the renegotiation of territorial contracts, in this case for the Opole province. The issue of the renegotiation of territorial contracts and their acceptance is particularly important right now, after the adoption of budgets, in a situation where recruitments into national operational programmes have started, in a situation where the fate, the future of the expected and very necessary investments of regional and national importance for such voivodships, as I mentioned, as the Opole voivodship is becoming uncertain. I therefore allow myself to ask a few questions to the Minister, while asking for an answer also in writing. Minister, why is the Ministry delaying the renegotiation of territorial contracts? At what stage are preparations for the renegotiation of territorial contracts in individual voivodships at present? Is the Ministry aware of the consequences for local governments resulting from delays in the process of government renegotiation? Does the Ministry have a position in this regard? And finally, one last question. In the absence of an end to the government process [[♪ The bell ♪]] the territorial contract will be blocked by the possibility of applying for EU funds and placed in national operational programmes for the years 2014 and 2020. If EU funding is not received, does the Ministry plan to compensate for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u82	The answer will be given to Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz and will be listened to, among others. Young people from Gomunic Junior High, whom I welcome on behalf of the Sejm. [[Applause]] I hope you'll find your visit to the Seym interesting. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u83	Good morning! Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Students! I hope this will be a good and creative lesson in democracy. Mr President, thank you for this introduction to recall what a territorial contract is. I would like to remind you that you were actively involved in the renegotiating of this contract for the voivodship, which you are asking about as a member of the management board of this voivodship. Let me remind you that the territorial contract was negotiated in an election mode at the turn of 2014 and 2015, so when it comes to shortcomings or indications of lack of investment in this contract, I understand that you are fighting in the chest today, striking that some important investments have not been written down there, as you said. But I'm already answering all the individual questions you've asked. Why is the Ministry delaying the renegotiation? The contract, as I said, was signed recently, it is difficult to negotiate something that we do not yet know where it is, where we are. The renegotiation is, first, the agreement of both parties to make changes. Secondly, renegotiations can be discussed when the first conclusions are drawn, the first implementation reports. They're just coming down, so we can just start talking about renegotiation. However, as I repeat, the contract is a relatively fresh document. It seems that the conditions that would affect the change of these agreements have not changed dramatically. This is therefore a partial answer to your second question. No renegotiations are being conducted at the moment, in any of the voivodships and final arrangements are under way. design cards. Also as a former board member, you know perfectly well what design cards looked like. One of them is a wish concert indicating 15 possible sources of funding, and only the other party, with an indication of real sources, is the real one. So we're talking about closing up the so-called agreements. design cards. Therefore, we do not identify any negative consequences for local governments resulting from a process which, as I said, has not yet really begun. And I cannot imagine that any of the Members, regardless of their political color, would want to lead to a certain irregularity or temporary formation of such serious contracts as contracts, and to enter certain investments by the way, by a narrow path. If there are any particularly important investments, let us remember that we do not only have indicative projects in contracts. There are also normally competitive procedures that can be approached. If you are asking about projects in the field of the protection of cultural goods, these projects in the RPO in the Opole Voivodeship are almost EUR 18 million. In the contest mode, you can stand there. Moreover, I understand that this question is some clarification, because the discussion about the voivodship has already taken place in the Ministry of Development and attempts to reflect on possible investments that should be financed were also indicated by Minister Hamryszczak. We thought we had come to an agreement here. As I said, summing up, you can renegotiate something that is already in some process, requires both sides' will to renegotiate. We do indeed assume during this possible process that procedures will be entered in order to respond more flexibly to major changes, especially when we are talking about types of projects, the application of certain simplified procedures or the possibility of applying to national or regional programmes, as is the case for R &amp; D projects, particularly important in terms of country development. Certain proposals for ordering entries in territorial contracts will be presented in the first half of 2016. We have also started a series of meetings with marshals for individual programmes and really such strategic investments, so that we are on the agreed path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u84	Would any of you like to ask an additional question? Mr Kostus or Mrs Osos? [[If your marshal will allow it, it's only in the form of a supplement.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u85	Thank you, Minister, for reminding me of my role and my participation in the entire creation of a territorial contract. Yes, I confirm that I took an active part in its preparation as a Vice-Marshal, and as a member of the Management Board I actually accepted it in July 2014 and that in 2015 further investments were added, which - in the context of the basic condition in some national, operational programmes, which is to enter into a territorial contract - fate is uncertain. That's why I don't mean this intervention thing that I went to the ministry with... I thank the Minister, Deputy Minister Adam Hamryszczak, for meeting with me, for listening to this intervention, for helping to show the path to the implementation of this project, which cannot apply to the Operational Programme, Infrastructure and the environment, because there is no record that it is in the territorial contract. The Lord has indicated another path from which at the moment the Opole curia, because this is what the beneficiary is talking about, uses, and thank you for that. And I, the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rather, I asked about these strategic projects, such as the Odrzańska Waterway, such as the reconstruction of hydrotechnical equipment and the whole package of various kinds of investments, which there are saved for almost PLN 1 billion. Not long ago, I asked the President of the National Water Management Board, what would happen in this case, whether these investments would start, and I heard the answer: talks are underway with the Ministry in the context of the territorial contract. And that's why we're gonna ask you again, and that's how we're gonna get back to that doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u86	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u87	Thank you for the clarification. With regard to the first part and the one we are talking about: as regards PO IiŚ - even if it were included in the contract - you know very well, Mr President, that without being included on the UNESCO list or the list of historical monuments, this project could not be a beneficiary, therefore we are talking about this other path. That's the first thing. The second is other investments, especially those in the field of water infrastructure. We are waiting for Water Law, so at this point we are discussing which investment is to be carried out, without Water Law is unfounded. As I said at the beginning, let the first conclusions be drawn. Like I said, we talk to everyone. I am personally involved, not in those projects that you are asking about today, but in those that are in my area of interest, and we are talking, and we are agreeing on terms and opportunities. So that this process will begin seriously after the first reports have come in. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u88	Thank you very much. Members Anita Czerwińska and Wojciech Skurkiewicz from the Law and Justice Club joined the next question. The question is about the planned establishment of new museum units, such as the Sand Museum or the Westerplatte Battle Museum and the 1939 Wars. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Mr Krzysztof Czabański will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I would like to ask Mr Skurkiewicz for a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u89	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! The last 8 years of the PO-PSL coalition's government are a departure from supporting the so-called. historical policy, but also very strong flattening, shallow so-called. patriotic policy. If we are talking about historical policy, we must bear in mind the tools that should be used in this area, but should also be financed by the State, such as research, education, education, and specialised institutions such as museums, memorial chambers. We must also not forget the media, especially public, national media, which should be fully exploited in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! The law and justice which the nation prefers to govern has a kind of idea to rebuild and restore historical policy and patriotic policy in this area. Hence our question to the representative of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Dear Minister, What elements of the Ministry of Culture will be used to raise the spirit and morale in the nation on the one hand, and on the other hand to remember what was in the past, to remember our historical policy, what we should be proud of, but also what we should boast about outside, what we should not forget as Poles, great breaks, fights and also the martyrdom of our nation? What idea does the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and Prime Minister Beata Szydło have for the implementation of historical policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u90	Please answer me, Minister. Minister Krzysztof Czabański, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very broad issue, a great area. Many very concrete initiatives show our concern, the ministry's concern for historical policy. Moreover, the Ministry's name is required by the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. I understand that this was not so much a question from the Member as a certain declaration of will, which we fully share. We support citizens' initiatives and initiatives of various creative backgrounds, we also address public media, we inspire the emergence of programmes, films, also co-financing certain projects or providing them financially and cooperating with the local government of different levels. If you are interested, we will also give you a written reply, which will outline the entire programme of the Ministry in this area. We wouldn't have enough time to talk about it in detail here. I just want to stress that this is one of the priorities for us in the operation of the entire ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u92	Thank you very much. And I would like to ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska for a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Our question concerns plans to create new museum units, such as the Sand Museum or the Westerplatte and the 1939 War Fields Museum. Please inform us about the organisation of these museums. What authority will be the body running the unit and what museums according to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage should be established in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u94	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to inform you that these museums, which you have asked for, have already been set up. They have been established in recent months. The first order on the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939 is the order of 22 December Ub. R., by this order, the museum was created. In March, a week ago, another decree of the Minister was given him a statute, and in fact this museum will be able to work in a moment. The organizer of the museum is, of course, the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. A similar process takes place when it comes to the Museum in Piśnica or the Museum of Sandstone, which is at the moment a branch of the Stutthof Museum in Sztutów. Also by the order of the Minister of Culture of December Ub. The statute of the museum in Stutthof was amended to create the Sand Museum, which is to commemorate genocide during World War II in those areas. It was the first such criminal act in those areas. I would add to these specific issues that you have been asking about, that we are planning a number of new initiatives for the creation of museums, also in cooperation with local governments to a large extent. Let me remind you that 80% museums in Poland are museums run by local governments. Therefore, this cooperation is natural and results from the state of affairs. We also plan to create museums in agreement with the Jewish Historical Institute and the second with the archdiocese of Warsaw. So that we have a wide program here, too. If more specific information is needed and if you wish, we can attach this information to this general programme, which [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have already announced here, projects in the field of historical policy of our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u96	Thank you very much. The next question was joined by MEPs Robert Telus, Krzysztof Głuchowski and Piotr Olszówka, club Law and Justice. The question is on Poland's implementation of the recovery plan for recognition of producer groups of fruit and vegetables. He is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki. I would like to ask Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Recently, on one of the Internet portals I read the information that Poland as a country is to transfer, return to the European Union a large amount of money related to a poorly implemented aid scheme concerning the initial recognition of producer groups in Poland and that this scheme was incompatible with European Union legislation. And the question to the Minister: What happened, what was wrong, what mistakes We as Poland have made the European Union make us pay back? Why has there been so little information on this subject so far? Because this was the case between 2014 and 2015 and the public does not know or knows little about this, that this is what the European Union has done. What's the amount to be refunded? Was there a repair program in place? This is very important because the European Union, when it checked it, certainly asked for a resolution programme. Was such a repair program introduced and how did this repair program work? And who really did it? Were these production groups responsible, or were the officials of that term, those governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party blamed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u98	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Jack Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Robert Telus' question, I would like to inform you that this situation has been in place for a long time for producer groups since already on 15 and 19 November 2010 the European Commission conducted an investigation into the preliminary recognition and recognition plans of the groups in Poland. As a result of this investigation, the Commission considered that the checks carried out in respect of compliance by producer organisations with the recognition criteria were ineffective and not carried out at the frequency required by the rules, as well as before granting initial recognition to producer groups or recognition to producer organisations, the controls were ineffective as they failed to verify the accuracy of the declarations and estimates submitted by the candidate producer groups and producer organisations with regard to the sale of transferable production. In 2013, the European Court of Auditors audited the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the Marshal's offices of Kujawsko-Pomorskie, Lubelskie, Mazowieckie and the selected beneficiaries of the final implementation of the aid for pre-recognized producer groups. In its audit conclusions, the ECA showed that the Polish authorities did not implement effective control procedures to prevent irregularities resulting from too general selection criteria and control requirements adopted and the lack of appropriate guidance at national and Union level. The deficiencies concerned the approval of investigation plans for the recognition of producer groups, the non-compliance with eligibility criteria and particularly artificially created groups, the failure to verify the correctness of the technical infrastructure investigation plans, machinery, equipment available to the members of the group, the non-verification of the reasonableness of investment costs, particularly when purchasing by the members of the group. In addition, the auditors did not find any evidence in the audited documents to verify the commercial consistency and the technical quality of the investigation plans. In the explanatory memorandum, they provided an indication of the time shown for the return on planned investments. Thus, in the 14 plans of the investigation, the average period of return for investments exceeded 40 years and in the extreme case 307 years. Of the 17 controlled groups in 12, the auditors questioned the transactions concluded in relation to investments between the group and its members or its closely related entities. In 11 groups 49 transactions concerned land, buildings, used machinery and equipment. In view of the results of these audits of the European Union audit bodies and the failure by the European Commission to accept the arguments presented by the Polish side, the European Commission has committed the Polish party to take corrective action under the financial assistance mechanism to the pre-accepted producer groups in accordance with the Commission's guidelines and recommendations. The corrective action plan in the financial assistance mechanism was sent to the pre-established fruit and vegetable producer groups on 5 January ub. As of 2015, and provided for its implementation by the end of 2015. Unfortunately, this plan wasn't left. As a result, on 8 January we asked the European Commission to extend the period of implementation of the corrective action plan until the end of October 2016. The plan is mainly implemented by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, which has carried out actions to improve the procedures for carrying out the training of workers, to carry out proper checks on the current proposals for reviewing and re-assessment of the status of initial recognition and to verify the correctness of financial assistance to pre-accepted producer groups. Of the 204 groups and organisations of fruit and vegetable producers whose initial recognition status has been assessed by the Directors of the Branches of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, the recognition was confirmed in 153 cases, and in 51 cases on the basis of documents obtained from marshals, the correctness of the initial recognition status of those entities has not been confirmed. For seven operators, the Marshals issued decisions to withdraw initial recognition, one entity is prepared to take action to withdraw initial recognition, and the cases of 43 entities negatively verified by the Agency are currently at the Agricultural Market Agency, because the competences of the Marshal's offices were transferred to the Agricultural Market Agency in the middle of last year and are subject to re-examination. In line with the European Commission's suggestion to re-check the correctness of the recognition, the Agency will select a sample of 5% to be checked. those in which preliminary recognition has not been contested. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, let me recap...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u100	Minister, why don't we finish the answer after Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski's additional question? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for these explanations. I will return to the very controls carried out by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which have recently been very intensive, and have implemented the corrective plan imposed on Poland by the European Commission. As part of the implementation of the commitments, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture has carried out numerous checks in groups of fruit and vegetable producers. The checks concerned various issues - transport costs, the correctness of the determination of the value of the inputs purchased, the correctness of the indication of the investment costs, etc. I have a question as to whether the legality of these checks was not subject to a certain question mark, because, according to my knowledge, these are not mere checks compared to those previously carried out. The EU auditors accused the restructuring and modernisation agencies that their controls were too superficial. In practice, this meant that ARiMR was looking for errors in cases that had already been audited, and even though the results of previous audits [[♪ The bell ♪]] they were positive for these groups of fruit and vegetable producers, trying to control them once again, find the missing inconsistencies so far. Thus, fruit and vegetable producer groups are in a very precarious situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u102	Please, sir, get to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u103	It turns out that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture will try to withdraw from its previous arrangements and decisions. Who's responsible for this? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u104	Thank you very much. And I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u105	As far as re-checks are concerned, they must not, of course, affect the continuity of the State. But we must bear in mind that the European Commission has excluded more than EUR 55 million from the 2009-2012 period by decision of Poland, while at the end stage there is a procedure for 20122013, where the exemption concerns EUR 115 million. These are powerful amounts, although it must be acknowledged that in 2005 and 2015 fruit and vegetable groups received more than PLN 7 billion. Thus, as far as the legality of these checks is concerned, these checks are based on post-control requests which have already been in place since 2010. Of course, if there are no irregularities found as a result of this verification, the groups have no reason to fear anything. On the other hand, the Polish State bears huge costs due to these irregularities. The Ministry of Agriculture has requested the Supreme Audit Chamber to carry out a review of the causes of this situation, as this requires checking many institutions, including marshal offices, which are not subject to the Ministry of Agriculture, and there must be done by a specialised body, which is the Supreme Audit Chamber, of course, if it takes such control. So to answer these questions, what are the reasons for this situation, I would say that, of course, only a full explanation by the Supreme Audit Chamber, by the state control authorities, can lead to the determination of these reasons. Probably in each case of any group in which irregularities have occurred, these causes may vary. In general, the European Commission's auditors concluded that the reasons were in the recognition of groups that should not be recognised and then in the payment of grants to groups that overestimated costs in the opinion of the European Commission's auditors and with their own members concluded agreements on excessive costs, but, of course, we cannot say that this happened in specific groups, because these checks, [[♪ The bell ♪]] both ours and the possible Supreme Audit Chamber are still in progress and a summary will only be possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question to which Mr Joanna Borowiak, Lydia Burzyńska and Marzena Machalek from the Law and Justice Club have joined. The question is about the amendments introduced at the end of the previous term of office of the Sejm in the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care by the Law of 25 June 2015 on the amendment of the Local Government Act and some other laws which, instead of benefiting, are unfounded, introduce organisational chaos and are even economically unfavourable. The question is to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Mr Marcin Zielenecki. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The inability of parents to provide their children with care and upbringing requires the State to organise foster care. At the end of the last term of office of the Sejm, changes were made to the Municipal Government Act and to the Law on support for family and foster care. A number of new rules were set up, which introduce organisational chaos and even are economically unfavourable. The changes concern, among others: the operation of care and care centres, which coordinate the operation of small facilities, 8 and 14 persons. The law deleted the provision that allowed small institutions to be managed by a tutor, thus avoiding duplication of executive positions. According to the current rules, even in 8-person institutions, the director will have to be appointed, which clearly entails additional costs of replacement care. As the directors and staff of care and education institutions note, the management of several facilities by the service centres has been very beneficial and has worked well in practice. Therefore, they call for a return to previous solutions, the restoration of the power of the director to direct the Centre with the help of the indicated educator, the restoration of the possibility of setting up administrative centres for the operation of care and education institutions within the framework of his own tasks, and the repeal of the provisions of the Act on local government with a transitional period of 12 months for the liquidation of the existing centres. I kindly ask the Minister to answer the question: Is it possible to return to the provisions of the Family Support Act and the foster care system in force until 2015?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u108	Thank you very much. And please respond to Minister Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is about the amendments introduced by the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care by the Law of 25 June 2015. The Act introduced, from the perspective of the content of the question, two important new solutions, namely the changes enabling the merger of the organisational units of the family support and foster care system and the organisational units of social assistance, and the subsequent major changes in the functioning of administrative centres for the operation of care and education facilities set up by the counties on the basis of Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on support of the family and foster care system, as well as administrative centres for the operation of day support facilities set up by municipalities or powiats pursuant to Article. Article 18a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 Act on support of family and foster care system. With regard to the operation of administrative centres for the care and care of educational establishments, it can be said that a provision has been introduced under the Law amending that they may operate for no longer than 12 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. This law entered into force on 1 January 2016, i.e. by the end of this year these institutions, administrative centers, can still function, while after that date joint economic and administrative service, organizational care and education institutions run by the county will be possible on the basis of the law, also amended, on the district government. Since 1 January 2016, the county may not create new administrative centres for the maintenance of care and education facilities on the basis of existing rules. The Law of 25 June 2015 also repealed Article. Paragraph 97. 2 Act on support of family and foster care system. The Member mentioned this in the question. That provision provided that, in the event of a guarantee, pursuant to Article. 94 of the Act, joint management of economic and administrative and organizational care and education institutions, is managed by the director of the entity, who provides this service with the help of a dedicated tutor appointed in individual care and education institutions. In short, since 1 January 2016, this role should be played by the head of the care and care centre, which, as she rightly pointed out, seems economically unjustified in the case of small establishments, gives rise to unnecessary additional costs relating to the need for a new post. With regard to issues relating to the second element introduced by the amending act, i.e. the element relating to the possibility of combining units, in particular day-care facilities or other municipal bodies designated to work with the family or with an organisational unit of social assistance, this law has also created the possibility of combining day-care facilities with care facilities or district social assistance units, as well as the possibility of combining forms of institutional foster care, i.e. care and care facilities, regional care and therapy facilities, intervention pre-adoption centres with social assistance agencies. So from our point of view these are solutions, I would say controversial, because they assume a combination of units that are addressed to different customers, you can say, to different people. They run a variety of activities. And from this point of view it can be said that there is not here, whether in some sense this element of specialisation we exclude here precisely by combining such common or different entities with different business profiles, right. So from this point of view, this is a solution that we are critical of. As regards the requests, it follows from information coming to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy that the local authorities are not satisfied with the changes introduced by the Law of 25 June 2015. They are particularly critical of the need to reorganise the existing system of joint economic and administrative services and organizational care facilities within such a short period of time since its creation. They stress that the need to employ directors in care institutions, which are provided with joint economic and administrative and organisational services, significantly increases the costs of running these facilities. It also seems worrying in the context of the proposed [[♪ The bell ♪]] by law of changes the prospect of combining the different organisational units of the local government...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u110	Minister, why don't we finish with the answer, as Mrs Marzena Machalek will ask, and in the next part we will complete the answer, okay? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, many solutions in the last term of office in the area of foster care, changing child care in difficult situations, were controversial. Some were beneficial, but in general their disadvantage was that local governments, including district governments, were financially and financially burdened, which, when it comes to financial matters, are among the weakest in terms of levels of local government. I use it in quotes. However, my question is as follows: Since the diagnosis of the ministry, but also of local authorities, and also of associations, is similar, then when the changes will be developed, which on the one hand will restore the possibility of merging [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the setting up of administrative centres, and on the other hand, will not allow for the combination of completely different institutions in terms of the specifics of care and education activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u112	Thank you, Member. Minister, we ask you to complete the answers to the earlier and additional questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I can read the conclusion that has been prepared, because it answers the question of the Member. Currently, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy examines problems related to the new rules for the operation of joint service of foster care institutions and rules for the merger of family support units and foster care systems with social assistance units in view of possible legislative changes in this area. What I'm trying to say is that we take this case as an urgent matter. Indeed, at the moment there are so many signals from local government units about the real dysfunctionality of these solutions that were introduced by the amending act last year, that we are giving priority to this issue and are really working intensively on changes in this area. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Before I go to the next one, I see that today young people visit us very much, including. from Stupska Junior High School. I hope you like it in the Seym. [[Applause]] You have a chance to listen... [[Members like it.]] That, too, Member. And I hope this is a lesson that you can do live in the Seym right now. I wish you a good experience and a good lesson here in the Seym. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm, information will be considered on the government's compliance with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which was presented by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. [[Two and a half minutes, did I hear right?]] Two minutes. [[Two and a half minutes?]] Two, two. In conclusion... [[The Member has 12.]] [[I can take it from you.]] But let me finish, because there are other announcements. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. I would also remind you that the time allowed for consideration of the point: Current information may not be longer than 90 minutes. Since everyone has a certain period of time in turn and many Members have signed up to ask questions, unfortunately, I will have to turn off the microphone if this continues. I therefore ask that all Members who have signed up for the list, and there are almost 30 of them, be allowed to ask a question. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The question is: Is the government going to follow the recommendations of the Venice Commission? Because it is the government that is really the partner of both the Council of Europe and the European Union and the European Commission, which will formulate various kinds of questions in this procedure, the basis or reference point of which is inter alia. Venetian opinion. It cannot be ignored - it is not legally binding, but countries such as Belarus whether Russia allows itself to ignore the recommendations of the Venice Commission. In addition, it was the government of the Republic of Poland that asked the Venice Commission for such an opinion. Ignoring such an opinion would lead to the government not being taken seriously on the international stage in very difficult times for Poland. I wanted to say something because it's often a word about sovereignty or a sentence about sovereignty. Yes, we are a sovereign state, but this sovereignty concerns defining our constitutional identity, which is always subject to dialogue, even with the European Court of Justice, and this sovereignty does not mean breaking the rules, the most important principles on which European order is founded. We are part of the community, we are signatories to many treaties and many agreements and fundamental principles concerning the rule of law simply cannot be broken. Our membership of the European Union involves rights, but also responsibilities. Breaking the rule of law as set out in Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union means that the State is not only on the censored ground, that if it intends to continue to violate these rules, it must be ready to bear the consequences, including the exit from the European Union or the termination of the Treaties. The weakening of the effectiveness of the Constitutional Tribunal - and that is exactly what caused the movements of law and justice - undermines all the fundamental principles of the Council of Europe. The mechanism of balance and control has been challenged at the same time, the division of power is under attack and you can swear the reality as you wish, but as far as the constitutionality of laws is concerned, here only the court, the Constitutional Tribunal and not the government can pronounce. Human rights are also being violated, because slowing down the access of individuals to the Constitutional Tribunal leads precisely to this situation. The inefficiency of the tribunal eliminates the possibility of resolving potential conflicts with European law and international standards, which, of course, causes a lot of problems. No one will interfere with how many judges Poland wants in the Constitutional Court, who chooses them, but we are bound by rules such as the respect of the Constitutional Court, the finality of its judgments and any steps which are aimed at paralyzing the Tribunal are and will be questioned. On the other hand, it is absolutely bizarre that the government refuses to publish a judgment, and this is also clearly stated in this opinion of the Venice Commission that this is actually an absolutely unprecedented step. What are the costs if the government doesn't engage in a dialogue if the government doesn't want to implement some of these provisions? These costs are extremely serious because the article can be activated. 7, which may result in sanctions imposed on Poland, including the deprivation of Polish voting rights. This could result in a systematic attack on constitutional order. And this is just the beginning, because we are talking about the Constitutional Court for the time being, and then there will be the issue of Internet surveillance raised by the European institutions, which also violates the law and judgments of the European Court of Justice, the attempt to assassinate civil service, the independence of the prosecutor's office - of course I could mention all the steps which the Law and Justice take and which are in clear contradiction with EU law. What does all this lead to? This primarily leads - and this is the question how the government wants to react - to weaken Poland's position on the international stage and in the European Union. How the government intends to pursue interests important for Poland, the issue of the budget, the issue of the single market, which is being violated, issues concerning e.g. extending sanctions against Russia at a time when it has such a weak position when it is unbelievable because it violates the most fundamental principles of the treaties? In addition to breaking the Constitution, there are various phobias of the Council of Ministers and offensive statements, which are extremely unprofessional. Why heat the atmosphere? Why do ministers speak like that? Finally, I want to say two words about Viktor Orbán, because there are often comparisons of what today's government is doing to what was happening in Hungary. First of all, Orbán had a constitutional majority, and he's a pragmatist, he's in dialogue with the Venice Commission, he's pulling out of some of his own. [[♪ The bell ♪]] movements that were recognized...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u116	Mr President, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u117	...for violating European law. Is the government ready for the same thing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u118	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Aleksander Stępkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Regarding the question asked by Mr Trzaskowski - yes, the government is a partner in dialogue with the European institutions, although it is not a partner, and in any case it is not a first-rate partner, in a conflict that has grown around the Constitutional Tribunal. This is a dispute in which the government is on the margin, it is not the main player. She saw it, among others. The Venice Commission, which in § 136 of its opinion stated very clearly that the current conflict around the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal is due to the actions of the previous Sejm and therefore Members of the Civic Platform should first hit their chests. The Commission therefore addresses its recommendations precisely to the Sejm, calling on both the parliamentary majority and the opposition to do their best to find a solution to this situation. Contrary to the suggestions made by those in question in the existing conflict, the government has a marginal role to play, but tries to take steps to promote dialogue between the main participants in the ongoing dispute. Therefore, in January, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, Beata Szydło, called on all parliamentary clubs to take up a debate on the resolution of the problem that has grown around the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, only one opposition club was ready to engage in this dialogue, and it was not the Civic Platform. The Venice Commission also expressly recognised in § 123 that the Sejm as a political entity is in the best position to conduct a dialogue conducive to a political solution. In § 139 stressed that in Poland a debate must be held with the full participation of the institutions concerned on the reform of the procedure and organisation of the tribunal and proceedings before the tribunal in which the decision should take place within reasonable time limits. For these reasons, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland, Ms Beata Szydło, gave the opinion to the Venetian Commission to the Marshal of the Sejm in order to organise such a debate enabling both experts and politicians to express themselves. The Prime Minister has called for such a debate before, and it has been many times, unfortunately, that the opposition has rejected these proposals for dialogue. In this context, it is worth pointing out that the Venice Commission in § 133 of its opinion called on individual participants in the ongoing dispute to follow the principle of loyal cooperation between state authorities. As regards the legal part covered by the proposal of the Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed to the Venice Commission, i.e. as regards the assessment of the amendment of the December Constitutional Tribunal Act, the Commission saw a flaw in the legal status introduced by the June 2015 Act, although it did not agree with the way in which the existing problems were resolved in December. Thus, the Commission pointed out that in order to satisfy the need for greater transparency in the proceedings of the Court and to speed up proceedings before the Court of Justice... The Venice Commission has acknowledged that there is excessive discretion in the order of judgment and therefore recommends that other mechanisms be put in place to improve the transparency of the existing system of distribution of cases and movements in the Court and to introduce reasonable time limits for resolving them, in accordance with the rule of law. The Venice Commission recommends amending the Constitution by introducing the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by qualified majority and establishing an effective mechanism which would exclude the emergence of an impasse. All these recommendations can only be made by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and, therefore, it is to be expected that the Members whose heart is to continue, to conduct a dialogue with the European institutions, including the Venice Commission, will be fully involved in this dialogue, which she calls for. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that Poland's position on the international stage is weak. Yes, there are Polish politicians who strive to weaken this position, but despite their commitment their efforts to this extent are not successful. With regard to the dialogue with the Venice Commission, and also the issue which is in some way the subject of it, the Venice Commission, in terms of how the Polish government engages, expresses itself about the dialogue that we are conducting, with the highest recognition. At every opportunity, the president of the Venice Commission Gianni Buquicchio emphasized the excellent level of preparation of the visit of the members of the Venice Commission in Poland, emphasized the very good preparation of both the order of all visits and participants, and did so on every occasion in a manner, one can say, far from standard or courtesy. He was actually very impressed by the Polish government's commitment to this dialogue. Yes, there are various controversies in this matter, such as the fact that the draft opinion of the Venice Commission was made available to the media, for which both the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the President of the Venice Commission regretted that something like this had happened and that the leak had been used to fight politically. This regret on the part of both the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe itself should be the best illustration of how international organisations should not act. Unfortunately, the opposition environments, which criticize the government, seek to weaken this position of the Republic in international organisations, fortunately they do so ineffectively. In June, the opinion of the Venice Commission on the Polish Police Act and the changes which the Civic Platform did not want to introduce for a long time, the time which the Constitutional Tribunal granted it in order to bring the legal status of the Police Act to a constitutional state. This did not occur during the reign of the previous coalition - PO and PSL - therefore the current government had to make these changes. And it will probably be seen that the level of protection of citizens' privacy has also improved in this way in relation to the previous situation. [[But it was your project, not the Platforms. Don't bring the Platforms into this.]] As far as the dialogue with the European Commission is concerned, this dialogue is still ongoing, there is an exchange of letters, meetings are underway, informal talks. The Polish government is fully involved in this dialogue. This dialogue is, I think, fruitful, although it can indeed be seen that sometimes there is a lack of full awareness on the part of international bodies about the constitutional system as regards the system of sources of law, as well as a great deal of media noise around this issue. This fact has, among other things, led the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to establish a special information channel on the basis of which he would verify the information that comes to him through the media because he himself concluded that this information is far from the facts. Among other things, we expect the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to visit Poland at the beginning of April. This is the best proof that Poland is fully involved in this dialogue, Poland is seen by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe as a very solid partner, which requires respect for itself, full respect for its subjectivity, while the partner deeply involved in the European process and a trustworthy partner with whom dialogue is not only possible but also fruitful. Among other things [[♪ The bell ♪]] the request to the Venice Commission, which has been submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is treated as a very clear proof of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u120	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the floor? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that the time to ask a question is up to 2 minutes. She will be the first to ask Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u121	The Venice Commission has lost the opportunity to act professionally. In its opinion on the Polish Constitutional Court, the Venice Commission defends specific anti-democratic and uncivilised standards, such as that it is impossible to be a judge on its own. [[Too soon, I can't record those smart words.]] The Constitutional Tribunal prepared a bill, piloted it aggressively in the Sejm and ruled on its legislative and constitutional correctness. The Venice Commission has accepted this situation and has not critically assessed it. Another standard of the Venice Commission is accepted by an extremely anarchist standard rejecting the principle of legalism of the operation of public authorities - art. 7 constitutions. The Venice Commission did not critically assess the entry of the Court into the sphere of action of other authorities, the Sejm, the President, the Government, or that the Constitutional Tribunal and the President are not pursuing proceedings on the basis and within the limits of the law as required by the Article. 7 constitutions. The Venice Commission agrees not to respect the basic standard of compliance and application of law in Poland, i.e. the principles of presumption of constitutionality established by the competent authorities. The Venice Commission accepts the outrageous evasion by the Constitutional Tribunal from the application of this principle, accepting the absurd, in quotes, the standard of a different, anarchising legal system in Poland, namely that the law established by the Polish Sejm is illegal from the time of its adoption and is contrary to the Constitution until, graciously, the Constitutional Tribunal recognises its compatibility with the Constitution. This is what the tribunal is doing about the novel. The standard is accepted by the Venice Commission specifically understood the principle of balance in the three divisions of power. The best of them is the Constitutional Tribunal, which is of an overriding nature. The Venice Commission introduces the standard of the Court's system, i.e. the implementation of the anti-democratic system of constitutional judges who have sovereignty over the parliament. This is contrary to Article. 4 [[♪ The bell ♪]] A constitution that says that sovereignty belongs to the nation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...which, in short, defends the undemocratic left-liberal standards of an illegal state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u122	Member, please leave the stand. The question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u123	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I already understand why you have such hopes in the Sejm, because I see that the Condor division in the form of Mrs Pawłowicz has already started, is already making raids on the Polish constitution. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[You share people, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Why insult at once?]] Minister, I'm glad... I think you're confused, too, because you came on behalf of the government in connection with the government's intentions in connection with the opinion expressed by the Venice Commission and we ask what the government will do. On the other hand, your speech was a statement of what the government expects the Sejm to do, not what the government will do. You've actually summoned... The only thing that pleases me in your speech is that you referred to the points of the Venice Commission's ruling above all about what the Sejm should do. I guarantee you, on behalf of Members of the Civic Platform, that, despite this raid, we will try to ensure that the Sejm makes a rational decision on this matter and that, in dialogue with the government we are hoping for and in dialogue with the international institutions, the Venice Commission, the European Commission tries to get out of this difficult situation of the constitutional crisis. We will also try to replace the government in taking care of Polish interests. What worries me is that you have been selective in the opinion of the Venice Commission. You haven't even given a second to the points that talk about how the government in this Commission is being judged. Therefore, I would like to quote paragraph 143: The refusal to publish a ruling of the Tribunal will not only conflict with the rule of law but will, as an unprecedented action, deepen the constitutional crisis caused by the election of judges in autumn 2015 and by the amendment of 22 December. Not only the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but also the European international standards require that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal be respected. Publication of the decision [[♪ The bell ♪]] and its respect by the Polish authorities... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to find a way out of the constitutional crisis. This is a shame, Minister... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u124	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Kobylinski a question. Ladies and gentlemen, please comply with 2 minutes. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] That's enough. Otherwise, I will be forced not to give the floor to other Members who do not fit in time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask such questions: Is the Polish government, which has a marginal position, as the Minister put it, which is actually quite controversial here, going to take some action in this regard in order to comply with the recommendations of the Venice Commission? In this connection, I would like to ask whether, in all difficult situations, he will hand over the item with a fight and throw his responsibilities on the Sejm. A few more questions: What policy will we be pursuing with regard to the United States now in the context of the opinion of the Venice Commission? Does the government have a plan B at a time when Poland will be isolated from important players in the European Union? And I'd like to ask if we have a very serious ally. I am not talking about Viktor Orbán here, I am not talking about Britain, which is one foot outside the Union, because there is a very big... The polls are that Britain will leave the European Union, so this is very dangerous. Do we have any allies in the Union? And does the government have any idea of rebuilding trust that has been damaged? I would like to remind you that it is your government, the government in which you are a minister, that has invited the Venice Commission. Mr Witold Waszczykowski did it. It is therefore difficult now to really refer to the fact that the opinion of the Venice Commission is not worth much. I would very much ask you to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u126	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So-called. The constitutional crisis is due to the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. High Izbo! The Venice Commission has issued several hundred different opinions, some of which were implemented by the countries to which they were addressed. But that's not the point. The point is that the Venice Commission can only deliver an opinion on a given legal act or act, but it has no competence to be a political mediator who is involved in internal political disputes between sovereign states, especially since the Commission was not asked to do so - first of all. Secondly, High Izbo, the Venice Commission called on the Polish Government to publish a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, stating that the refusal to publish is deepening the existing crisis, thus leading to the blocking of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is not necessary to be a lawyer by education to note that the above question could not be the matter of the work of the Venice Commission for a simple reason - during her stay in Poland a ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has not yet been issued. [[Yes, sir.]] What is equally important and perhaps most important, the issue of publishing the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal was not covered by the request of Minister Waszczykowski. On what basis did the Venice Commission deliver its opinion? On the basis of whose report, within just a few hours, the members of the Venice Commission were able to read the complex matter of the judgment with the justification? [[Exactly.]] Such a course of action by the Venice Commission should raise our opposition, and at least deserves to be pointed out. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the analysis of the activities of the Venice Commission, a few questions are raised. First, did Minister Waszczykowski, speaking on behalf of the Polish government, ask the Venice Commission for political mediation in our country? Second question: Was the issue of the publication of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal the subject of a request to the Venice Commission by the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u128	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I very much regret that the Minister lost his chance to take a closer look at the opinion of the Venice Commission in order to learn from it. This opinion of the Minister was very one-sided, but above all it did not bring us closer to solving the problem we are facing today. In this connection, I would like to ask the Minister, especially after Mrs Pawłowicz's statement, whether, in the view of the Minister, the Minister often referred to the fact that the High Chamber should solve this problem - the statement by Mrs Pawłowicz, who... [[I am a Member, not a Member.]] ...as we hear, she's headed the parliamentary team of the Euro-realistic 12th... Do you wish this problem to be resolved by the Sejm? Is such rhetoric by the Member of the Commission also a line that the government will adopt when we talk about dialogue, for example with the Venice Commission and dialogue at European level, in the Council of Europe or in the European Union? Minister! I would also like to ask, because I think this is crucial, that is what Mr Nitras was talking about, and that is a key question: when will Prime Minister Beata Szydło publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Never.]] [[Never.]] [[She's gonna have a tribunal.]] We cannot treat opinions in a selective way, because it is simply frivolous treatment of Poles, it is also frivolous treatment of the High House. And that's the key question. I count on a clear response from the Minister. I ignore the various statements made by Minister Waszczykowski, contrary to each other, before giving an opinion and after issuing an opinion. I'd like the Minister to sort out some government policy on this, because she's just a mess. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it doesn't add up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern - another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The situation of Poland on the international stage is dramatic. It is the worst possible, of those that the Polish government has recently developed. This is unbelievable. We are dealing with an attempt on democratic order. This time will probably go down in history as a March bombing. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] We are - we, the society - safe in the dangerous country of the PiS, who is playing with the law that is playing with the citizens. After 1989, we were sure that we were building a democratic society. We had a deep conviction that democratic society would become a civil society. Today we have this situation that we must build a society of opposition towards your fatal policy. Following the introduction of the resolution law, after the introduction of the media law, after the introduction of the surveillance law, after the assassination of creative freedom today we are sure that you are building an authoritarian state. I wanted to ask you about all of this: When will you publish the ruling of the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u132	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Stanisław Pieta, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Venice Commission is a left-wing body that usurps the right to instruct the sovereign. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Contrary to what was said here earlier... [[We're the ones who asked.]] ...the government does not violate the rule of law. Let me remind you that the law and justice have given 235 mandates in this House democratically and legally. No political force in the history of the Third Republic has ever received such a strong mandate to rule Poland. [[The constitutional referendum was twice as high.]] The Poles have entrusted... [[Quiet!]] ... Poland of Law and Justice... [[And they're sorry.]] ...and it's about time... [[Quiet!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please accept this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Constitutional Tribunal may not be a judge in its own case. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Only the PiS can be a judge on his own case.]] It can't be the third cassation chamber of parliament. [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] Every judgment, every court, given in the composition of an unknown law is void or does not exist. [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's a good thing you didn't put 20 judges on the bill.]] Therefore, it cannot be published. It's important, it's a leak... [[Exactly.]] ...the opinion of the Venice Commission. I wanted to ask if there was an investigation. What's the connection between the position... [[Yes, sir.]] ... The Civic Platform, the position of the Venice Commission and the Voivodeship Gazeta, which published these Venetian polajanki? [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of Ministers! The nation has already spoken. The nation has an opinion about the Civic Platform... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u135	...the nation has an opinion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u136	Member, excuse me, Mrs Monica...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u137	...about the Election Gazet... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...I don't think he thinks otherwise about... [[Applause]] [[Stasia, even you don't show enthusiasm as you say.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u138	Please leave the podium. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u139	After more than 100 days of rule of law and justice, we know that you have nothing in common with law and justice. Even the name doesn't work because it's a coherent link, and you share - you divide Poland and you divide Poles. After your 100 days we became a problem in Europe, before we were a partner. [[Get to the point.]] Your 100 days are the night, in haste trampling the constitution... [[Get to the point.]] ...Parallise the Constitutional Tribunal and destroy... [[Get to the point!]] ...democracy. You are the authors of the protests of thousands of Poles. [[Get to the point!]] [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Please do not disturb me.]] You are the authors of the amazement of Europe and the joy of Russia. You're the authors... [[It's about the Venice Commission, ma'am.]] ...you are the creators of the uprising crushing for the opinion of the government of Beata Szydło of the opinion of the Venice Commission, because it is on your behalf that Minister Waszczykowski turned, writing in his letter: "The Venice Commission, its international prestige and professionalism will allow for an objective assessment." And an objective assessment, High Izbo... [[No one thought there would be a legal scandal. Your marshal, the legal scandal.]] ...made it. And he says... [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Please do not disturb me.]] Your Marshal, please reassure Mrs Pavłowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u140	Member, I would like to ask... [[Okay, I'm sorry. They interrupted me here.]] Nobody's interrupting you. I'm asking you to stay calm because it's taking our time for nothing. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u141	And the evaluation is. And he says that your actions, the actions of Law and Justice, are destroying three fundamental principles. First of all, you are destroying democracy, because the central element of the three divisions of power will disappear, and secondly, you are destroying human rights, because access to the Constitutional Tribunal will be very difficult, and thirdly, you are destroying the rule of law, because the tribunal is a key element of justice. [[No.]] After the crushing opinion of the Venice Commission for you, Prime Minister Beata Szydło begins to fear her because she has been subject to the Court of State. What's he trying to do? He's trying to blur the responsibility, he's trying to shed responsibility on the Sejm, on the MPs, on you, ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for Members of the Law and Justice. [[No, no.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u142	Thank you very much. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u143	And all you have to do is follow the law. Your piece of justice is Minister Ziobro.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u144	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern. Thank you very much. [[Ma'am, the tribunal is not part of the justice system. This is a court...]] Madam, this is the second time I have drawn your attention. Please, for the sake of seriousness, and of yours, and of yours, and of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours, of yours. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How is it that you yourselves have requested an opinion from the Venice Commission, and now you disagree with it? [[I just explained.]] You've volunteered. How is it that you have no shame to ridicule such an excellent democratic institution as... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ... The Venice Commission, e.g. Saying they're sitting in some bookstore somewhere? How come all you see is conspiracy and snitches 'cause that's what they say all the time? You didn't even leave a dry thread on our allies, the Americans, not to mention Europe. You have your very interesting coalitionists in Europe. Do you realize that you will be judged by history for this? How are you gonna live with that? [[The Prophet is here.]] Well, that's interesting. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say one thing. To me, to the office, a lot of young people write letters. There's graduate in a month and a half. [[Voice from the hall: And they are with us.]] And he's asking me to... Did I disturb you, sir? [[To what?]] Come on in, let's switch places. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he's asking for an interpellation, which is supposed to answer his senior year in a month and a half on the matter of WOS, which is a three-fold division of power, because the youth has gone crazy. He doesn't know. Everything was destroyed. [[Voice from the room: Bye, bye.]] Exactly. [[Because there's no story.]] I didn't. I've been here three months. [[You're the one who doesn't know the story.]] I'd really like to get an answer, and especially for these young people to hear, because in a month and a half, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he's got a big mess in his head that you've caused. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[What country?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u146	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marek Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u147	I'm here, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u148	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In her report, the Venice Commission recommended, among other things, that the Polish Government publish the opinion of the Constitutional Tribunal as a ruling. I wanted to ask the Minister: Did the Constitutional Tribunal, when issuing this opinion, take it on the basis of the provisions of the revised Act on the Court and in full composition, to which the Act required? And if not, can such an opinion be treated as a judgment that can be published? And would it not be a violation of applicable law to publish such an opinion as a judgment? In addition, the Venice Commission acknowledged that this was a political dispute, and the responsibility for this situation also lies with today's opposition and should be resolved in Poland with the involvement of all political forces. Please say: To date, has any government proposal received opposition approval in order to compromise the case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u150	Another question. Please, Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Oh, Jesus, I'm scared. I'm scared of you.]] You're already satisfied. It's very nice to see you. That's what I'm hearing about this anarchy, this left-winging and all that stuff, and so on, really the hair on my head really stops, but it's not that you're rather under-educated - I'm sorry for the word - because chadition is in charge in Europe, and the Venice Commission is co-created and co-financed by us, so it's an institution that the whole world is really looking at when it comes to solving disputes and legal and constitutional interpretations. [[That's left-wing party.]] If you think she's left-wing, you're welcome. But there's more to it than that. Because the state, inviting the delegation, inviting you to participate in the opinion of the legal situation, maybe you did one good step in those 100 days. But these opinions that you are making now, they are going into the world, they are really opening the eyes of our partners in Europe. [[Good.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed its participation in the committees which form the Council of Europe - recently on the political committee in Paris - suddenly found themselves absent from the meetings because it was not known how to behave. We have three meetings next month, in April, the monitoring, political and legal commission just now. Will you continue to boycott these committees? In this way, as you behave, you are exposing Poland outside the family of democratic and European countries. And only one country behaved as arrogantly as you today from this platform. [[Hungary, Hungary, you say.]] Russians. You guys want to keep going down Putin's road? [[Applause]] Today Russia is in fact not among the countries of the Council of Europe. The delegation shall be suspended. Don't go that way, because this is really not Poland. We have always been looked at as a model of a country and a society that fights for freedom and democracy. And you too should go this way, pleading, perhaps, for your own reasons... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u152	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u153	...but be in dialogue... [[We're going the Polish way, we're going the Polish way.]] ...with Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u154	The next question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u155	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are dealing with a curiosity situation where the ruling majority referred to an objective, internationally recognised body, known as the Venice Commission, to consider its law in practice breaking the backbone of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Venice Commission, at the request of the Government of Law and Justice, leaned very closely on the changes made. She had to, after all, the Constitutional Tribunal is one of the few institutions of a democratic state, which upholds the compatibility of the law with the Constitution, which guarantees constitutional order in Poland. The Constitutional Tribunal is a reduction that protects citizens from the temptations of political parties who would like to bring order in our country that is not in accordance with the Constitution. Given this and the opinion of the Venice Commission, I was hoping to hear from you, Minister, when the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will be published. I didn't hear it, although it would be the most important information today. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] That is why I want to ask this important question, and I hope to hear the answer to it today. Minister, when will the Law and Justice publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Never.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u156	Thank you very much. And another question I will ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The European Commission for Democracy by Law, commonly known as the Venice Commission, is an advisory body for the Council of Europe. It was created in 1990 during the transformation process to help post-communist countries of Central and Eastern Europe implement democratic European standards in matters of government and constitutional law. Its main task is now to deliver opinions. [[Wikipedia reads.]] Why did the Venice Commission not take an interest in the violence convention as the opinion-making body of the Council of Europe and oppose this convention, which, under the cover of the fight against violence, introduces gender philosophy, full of psychological, social, medical pathology and violates civil rights? This convention clearly violates civil rights, the rights of parents, children, churches, believers, as well as the rights of sovereign states. Poland should not ratify this so-called. a violent convention. The Convention threatens European civilization, which is based on Christian ethics, Roman law and Greek philosophy. The consequences of the adoption of this sick convention will be felt in the coming years. The Venice Commission promotes left-liberal legal political concepts and its conduct supports left-liberal initiatives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u158	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to say that Law and Justice have gained a majority in this House with 37% votes of Poles, but 53% voted in favour of the constitution Poles and the constitution should also be counted. Secondly, I would like to point out that, in the opinion of the Venice Commission, there is not once a critical word about the Constitutional Court or the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, so I have a question for the Government: When will the Constitutional Tribunal and its judgments and the activities of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal cease? Thirdly, what you called a dialogue, Minister, is preparations to initiate a procedure for the protection of the rule of law. For the first time since the establishment of this procedure in 2014, preparations are being carried out for its application to the country. Isn't this some kind of reduction in the position of Poland? Janusz Wojciechowski, former President of NIK, has already paid a price for this, because he was given a negative opinion on the Constitutional Tribunal as a candidate for the European Commission's audit post. Fourthly, Minister, you spoke about various things: about the Sejm, about other things that could be done, but you did not respond to the most important thing that is in the opinion of the Venice Commission, namely what is addressed to the government. Will the government change its mind about the publication of what everyone considers to be the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Not all of them. Most of them don't.]] All legal bodies in Poland and the European Commission. I would also like to point out that the opinion of the Venice Commission is an opinion that will be examined and examined by the European Commission and by the European Parliament and by the Council of Europe and the United States are very interested in this. So this isn't some leftist organization that works without any basis, it's an organization or opinion that everyone really cares about. [[Not all of them.]] Finally, I wanted to address one point, namely Article. 39 provisions of the Venice Commission, where it is clear that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Amendment... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u160	Thank you very much, sir. [[Your marshal has a razor blade in his hand. Okay, okay.]] Another question. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Here, on the speakership, I was really surprised, surprised as you can in such a short time - because I will remind you that the Law and Justice rule only a few months, from 12 November - from a country that was the leader of democracy, of which we were all proud as a country that became a member of NATO very quickly, of the European Union - I myself participated not only in a referendum, but also in encouraging Poles to enter the European Union... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...to become a country that will soon be seen as an isolated, undemocratic country. Let me remind you that the opinion of the Venice Commission... It is a shame that she had to take care of Poland at all, that we had to assess changes that were undemocratic. We have a clear opinion of the Venice Commission, which says that in Poland the principles of democracy and civil liberties have been violated, that we have a situation in which something which is the basis of every democratic system, i.e. the division of power, is being boycotted by the judiciary, which is the Constitutional Tribunal. We have a situation where the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are not respected. I will remind you of the judgment of December 3rd, although this particular country was published. We have such a situation that, despite the fact that there is an appropriate provision in the Constitution, there is no further judgment published by the Constitutional Tribunal. We have a situation where we are the first country to be checked for credibility, the rule of law by the European Commission. We have a country to which the US senators write letters because they are concerned that we stop respecting the principles of a democratic country because there is an erosion of democracy in Poland. So we have a country that, from a country that was the leader of democracy that we could always be proud of, becomes a country that is starting to be an outcast of a democratic world. How could you have led to such a situation in such a short time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did the Venice Commission have to take care of Poland at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u162	Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Michał Wójcik, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First, I will answer my esteemed predecessor. Well, if you had been familiar with the schedule of the meeting of the Venice Commission on the day that you dealt with the proposal for Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u164	Mr, this is the time. Not the answer, not the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u165	At that time, during the same meeting, there was, among others, a lot of work to be done. France's case. [[And France won't respect...]] [[Don't interrupt.]] [[Voice from the room: Can you interrupt?]] On the other hand, today it would not be out of the question to say that the Venice Commission dealt with more than 50 countries. [[And you're the first to disobey. Bravo.]] She has issued over 500 opinions, recommendations and positions. If you read to yourselves how the Venice Commission reacted in the Liechtenstein case, you would know that it proposed restricting the monarchy and the people said no. [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] If you read your opinion on Iceland, you would know that it was proposed that the Constitutional Tribunal should be set up there, and in that country where the oldest parliament in the world is, they said no. [[But the Supreme Court works.]] So stop treating the Venice Commission as an important authority as an oracle. Let's get some thinking going. [[No, the president's an oracle.]] But I want to talk about something else, the main thesis was: to publish a ruling, a position for us. [[Yes, sir.]] Remember, it all started with the Constitutional Court. The Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, has filed for the adjournment of this case, and if that were the case, it wouldn't be the entire sequence of events. The Constitutional Tribunal would not have to gather and issue judgments or positions, as it is for us, then the Venice Commission would not have demanded as the main thesis of the publication of the judgment... [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] ...and you guys wouldn't meet on the street. Today I propose from this place that the whole nation, especially politicians, read the constitution, but you take a seat in the dumb bench. [[Yes, sir!]] [[And you're in front of the State Court.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u166	Mr Marek Krzakła, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u167	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is clear that the opinion of the Venice Commission is a non-binding document, but the failure to respect its provisions on a matter as fundamental as the Constitutional Tribunal is actually a question of whether Poland is still a state of law. The Minister quoted point 123 of the Commission's opinion. I will quote paragraph 124, which states that the constitutional court's decisions must be respected by other political bodies. It is a European and international standard of vital importance for the division of power, for the independence of the judiciary and for the proper functioning of the rule of law. Therefore, there is no doubt that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal must be published and enforced. Question is, when? I wanted to ask if the government is considering the consequences for Poland in the international arena. Because it will probably be that the European Commission will share the opinion of the Venice Commission and issue recommendations that could lead to sanctions against Poland, for example by reducing billions of funding that have been negotiated by the previous government, and this will be another signal after the rating in Poland has been lowered that we are doing badly. In addition, who is removing the law, the law is actually placed outside the European Union at its own request. And the question is, is that the purpose? Do you want the same thing as your new strategic partner in Britain? In fact, this discussion today is not really a debate about the opinion of the Venice Commission, but whether Poland will be democratic and what the quality of functioning of the state will be in the future, because as a Member State of the European Union we are bound by treaties to respect common values or the principles of the rule of law. The platform acknowledged its error and committed itself to following the recommendations of the Venice Commission, while Jarosław Kaczyński, calling the opinion of the independent Venice Commission absurd, confirms only that he is seeking authoritarian governance. I wanted to ask, is that your ultimate goal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u168	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Marek... excuse me, Łukasz Schreiber, club Law and Justice. I'm sorry I made a mistake on behalf of you, but I've improved. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In listening to this debate, it must be said that there is a country that needs urgent attention from the opposition. There is a country in which we have a similar dispute. And it's not Bangladesh, Belarus or Russia, it's the United States of America. I think you have a great chance to interest the Venice Commission in this matter, especially since the United States is also one of the members of the Venice Commission. [[Bravo...]] [[They are a member of the Council of Europe.]] What is the situation in the United States? [[Didn't someone publish the verdict?]] We have a situation in which, after the death of the conservative Supreme Court Judge Antonin Scalia, which took place on 13 February, President Barack Obama would like to nominate his judge, but the leader of the Republican majority, without even knowing his name, said that the United States Senate would not conduct the procedure for voting and interrogating this judge. [[Normally, the end of the white man's civilization.]] [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] And the Republicans, how do they argue that? That he only stayed a year until President Barack Obama finished his term of office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Your ally Trump will come and we'll see.]] What's the big deal? Because there are nine judges out there, and that ninth judge will influence which way the Supreme Court will rule. But, of course, apart from these similarities, there are also differences. In Poland, a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is elected for 9 years, in the United States, a judge of the Supreme Court - for a lifetime term. In the United States, no one's a hypocrite, and they don't say that these judges suddenly become some kind of apolitical. [[Yes, sir.]] There are four liberals, four Conservatives and one who is a language at the scale, elected almost 30 years ago. And there's a fundamental difference... [[That a ruling is being published.]] [[Nobody breaks the law.]] ...in the attitude of the Civic Platform, which not only hastened so much to select three judges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The term expired after the election, but she still chose to promote two more. No one in the United States would call on the Venice Commission, demolish public order. No one would allow sovereignty to be lost at the expense of the Venice Commission. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's the end of civilization.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u170	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask: When will the Prime Minister publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Never.]] That's a question for the Prime Minister. And when will the government and the parliamentary majority follow the recommendations of the Venice Commission? I ask this not only for the sake of the image of the Polish state, because this aspect has already been raised many times, but for the sake of the image of us, Poles. For centuries, Polka has been in Europe, the world's synonym for a lady, a real lady, and a true lady follows the rules. A real lady doesn't lie, a real lady keeps her word. And so the first lady of Polish politics in the international arena, at the meeting of the European Parliament, ruined this image. First of all, she turned out to be a liar. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Please don't insult...]] She told us about how journalists are being watched, knowing a week earlier from the audit of the fact that it wasn't true. [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it is.]] Secondly, she failed to keep her word by announcing later that she would not follow the recommendations of the Venice Commission, and then in that Parliament she boasted that we had invited the Commission ourselves and that we would follow her recommendations with all our attention. [[The voice from the room: She said she would consider it.]] [[Voice from the room: you're lying.]] I have a question: When and how will the Prime Minister make this image of Poles, the real ladies, want to fix it? If he fixes and corrects this lie... [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, this is insulting the Prime Minister.]] ...and how he'll keep his promises and at the same time... [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] I am not worried - I am sorry, my fellow Members - about the image of real ladies in this parliament, because here in Poland they are themselves responsible for whether they are ladies or real. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[This is an outrage. Marshal, please respond. This is insulting the Prime Minister.]] I think about image, representing all Polish women. [[The digger showed us what a lady she is. Teach your former Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u172	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. [[You've got plenty of ladies in there jumping...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I saw that some of your fellow Members were surprised that the United States was a member of the Venice Commission, as said by our member of the club, so I think there is a lack of some elementary knowledge. Maybe it's worth a closer look at the legal status of... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's missing, isn't it? This brings up the legal status of the opinions and recommendations of the Venice Commission. First of all, let us be honest: Is this procedure unique to Poland? As Mr Wójcik said, more than 500 opinions over the 25 years of the Commission's operation have been submitted to more than 50 countries. Do the Commission's opinions have any legal value? They don't. They have the advantage of an advisory analysis, a voice in a discussion which is subject to an analysis of the country concerned each time and will also be subject of course in Poland, but it is often applied only in part or is not implemented in the legal order at all. Often there is a dialogue between the Commission and the country concerned for several years. It also happens that this opinion is negatively reviewed in a national referendum, as was the case with Liechtenstein. It can be pointed out on several occasions that, according to the Venice Commission, judges of the Tribunal should be elected by a qualified majority by Parliament. What's it like in Poland? The example of Poland was indicated in one of the opinions of the Venice Commission, where only a simple majority of votes is required. And paradoxically, it was only in the draft law by the Kukiz and Law and Justice Club that we wanted to apply these repeated recommendations of the Venice Commission, and you object to it. Is the Venice Commission sacred and its authority not subject to discussion? No, for many years, politicians and experts have been pointing to shortcomings in constitutional proceedings against Belgium, Iceland, Hungary and Liechtenstein. They have been very controversial in recent years. How to take seriously the voices of politicians who do not know or pretend that they do not know the actual legal importance of the Commission, who until a year ago had no idea in the vast majority what the Venice Commission is at all, and today they suspended its opinion... [[Yes, sir.]] ...on the banner and treat... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...her like an oracle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Another question - Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the European Parliament who was so proud and confident of her strength. What was the result of the Prime Minister's strength? She said that Poland had asked the Venice Commission to give an opinion on whether Poland was really a state of law. And now I wonder what Prime Minister Beata Szydło will do when she has to face the European Parliament again. Will he say that we do not, we do not accept the opinion of the Venice Commission because it is left? [[Applause]] [[It's against the constitution.]] Yes? You, the constitutionalist... [[Yes.]] That's the problem... [[No problem.]] ...that it is contrary to the constitution, says only one environment, the only environment. [[But mostly.]] What appears in the international press, in the United States this morning? [[You're a cosmopolitan.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] A bitter affair between the United States and Poland. How this bitter affair between the United States and Poland will affect the economy... [[Good.]] ...for exchange, for the security of Poland? It is heard: a lonely foreign policy of Poland. In fact, we were on our knees in your opinion, and now we're getting up and walking - we're walking in a short circuit... [[Yes, sir.]] ...strong, ready, across from us the European Parliament, the European Commission, the European Council. [[Applause]] We're lonely and we're losing more and more. How do we see this loss? In January, for example, when it suddenly turned out that the Treasury bonds had been used up. And why did they go too far? Or just because you're doing an excellent economic policy? We don't know what you're doing yet, so it didn't work. I'm sure there's been a mix-up with the Constitutional Tribunal. What about investors who start wondering what country to choose? Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] A good country, only with threatened democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Another question - Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Venice Commission, as a representative of the European establishment, used the moment to strike its ideal opponents. By going beyond the scope of the cases referred to it by the Polish government, the Venice Commission defends the uniform ideal composition of the tribunal and ridicules in its opinion pluralism, claiming that constitutional justice is all about law. Is that honest? I don't think so. The Venice Commission does not want to accept that, since the Constitutional Tribunal has the power to repeal the sovereign's will, the composition of the tribunal must be culturally, ideologically and politically pluralised in a way that corresponds to a politically differentiated division of society. [[Yes, sir.]] Otherwise, the Constitutional Tribunal is nothing more than the opposition force against the sovereign's political will... [[Yes, sir.]] ...who's won most of the Seym and Government. Doesn't the Constitutional Tribunal then de facto oppose the current political majority, against the majority of voters of the current power? [[Yes, sir.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u178	I would like to ask you another question from Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What exactly happened? The left-wing committee, the Commission supports left-liberal initiatives, the Venetian Poles - that's what we hear today. On 24 December 2015, Minister Waszczykowski's press spokesperson wrote: "Minister is firmly convinced that the international prestige of the Venice Commission and its professionalism will allow an objective assessment of the legal issues covered by the proposal. He continued: The role of the Commission is to give the Member States legal opinions and in particular to support them in the process of adapting and improving the law and institutional structures to European standards in the area of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. What has happened, Minister, since then, that governments suddenly change their minds about the Venice Commission? [[I've already explained.]] When you start the election, you scream repeatedly and you do it, you agree, you correct, you agree with the voters what you introduce. Are you aware of what the polls have been saying lately? What's your paper that's been supporting you through... publishing? [[38% support, up to 40%.]] Poles on the side of the Constitutional Tribunal. Your voters in 74% are in favour of publishing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. They ask questions about who you think is right in the dispute about the Constitutional Tribunal. 45% Poles say opposition and the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The questions are whether you think the sentence should be published by the government in the official journal. [[You don't know, and fibroids know.]] 74% Poles say yes. [[38% support!]] My friends, consult, collect, read, listen to what the Poles say. [[Voice in the room: 38% versus 12%.]] Minister, when will the government publish the judgment of the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u180	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Andrzej Kryj, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many Members of the Civic Platform have expressed an almost idolatrous attitude towards the opinion of the Venice Commission. [[Yes, sir.]] Is this fully justified when the position of the Venice Commission on the December amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act in many places is quite strange? In its assessment of its content, the Commission did not rely on a uniform, really existing legal model, but, by punishing Poland for certain solutions, saw nothing wrong with the same solutions that were successful in other countries, such as Austria, Luxembourg and Germany. [[Yes, sir.]] This is the case in our amendment to the Constitutional Tribunal Act of the 13th formation of 15 judges. This record has been severely criticised. It is therefore worth asking why such formations in the case of France, Austria, Italy, Bulgaria or Cyprus of the Venice Commission are no longer disturbing. [[Yes, sir.]] It is extremely detrimental to democracy, even causing paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal, that the Venice Commission has recognised the obligation for the Court to deal with cases in the order of their influence. The same provision in the case of constitutional courts of Lithuania, Slovakia or Luxembourg is no longer so bad and they work there in a normal way. [[Yes, sir.]] Here's another example. According to the Commission, the judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal by a majority of 2/3 of the votes in full may have fatal consequences. With us it is supposed to kill democracy, but already in Germany or Romania, on the contrary, it strengthens democracy. [[Yes, sir.]] High Seym! We see very clearly here that the Commission applies double standards. [[Yes, sir.]] What others accept is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u182	You're welcome. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say that I turn around in circles where people say: we are Poles, but at the same time they say: we are Europeans and they say: we are citizens of the free world. That's what gave us 25 years of freedom, and that's what we want to be. If so, it must be said that the European Union, the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission are part of this free world. The Venice Commission is a kind of lighthouse to which they tend to know countries that have problems and want to resolve them. Here's the thing: when a lot of people in a row say you look bad, go to bed. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that you are not going to follow this simple folk truth. It comes to reinterpretation, says President Kaczyński, the words "suppliability." Sovereignty, it's true, it's self-determination, but you can't learn from it that sovereignty, that's what the sovereign will impose as your 38%. There were many moments in history where most of them were wrong, and the costs were terrible, Mrs Pawłowicz. [[You're against democracy, sir.]] You're saying no one interferes in our affairs, our home from the country. No, not in this place of Europe, not in this place we've been through for 25 years. And what I want to say to you is that the word "supplierability" should not be confused with the word "carrier." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u184	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski. There's no envoy. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to Mr Five's statement, which he called the Venice Commission a leftist body. [[Good.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, how great your determination must be if you ask for your opinion and help, because if you had not hoped for this help, you would not have turned to your opponent as large as the left-wing forces. The question is, why do you want to destroy the Constitutional Tribunal so badly, that even there you are asking for this help, which you want to hide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u186	Thank you very much. And Marian Zembala, too, but I do not see Mr Zembala in the Chamber. As a result, the question by the honourable Member has exhausted the list of those who have joined the question. Thank you very much for the smooth questioning, because this has enabled the question to be asked by all Members who have joined the list, and we practically have time to speak by the representative of Rafał Trzaskowski's applicants - 5 minutes and then the representative of the Council of Ministers - 10 minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u187	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Following and following the recommendations of the Venice Commission and, above all, the dialogue, that is the responsibility of the government. The defence of Poland's position on the international stage also rests with the government, and this will be a really difficult task, because I do not know whether the voices we have heard here from the Chamber, the voices of Law and Justice, Members of Law and Justice, will help you to carry out these tasks, those voices that speak of left-wingness, polajanki, these laughs. Will this really allow you to have a meaningful dialogue with the Venice Commission and, more importantly, with the European Commission? Unfortunately, I doubt it very much. The Minister is also trying to shift all responsibility to the Sejm, and it is clear in this judgment or in this opinion of the Venice Commission that everyone must lean on trying to solve this problem. I do not know whether these statements by the Members of the Law and Justice House are good at the fact that the Sejm would be able to resolve this problem. The Venice Commission gives a lot of opinions, and I ask how serious the situation in Poland is, that the European Commission, the European Union, has dealt with this problem - until now only at the time when Haider ruled in Austria, when there were problems with the Hungarian Government, which I will refer to, was even considered to launch the article. 7 - because we are dealing with systematic violations of democracy in Poland. The Minister spoke about the fact that the Venice Commission praises talks with the Polish government. That's the difference, they're diplomats. These are not people, like representatives of the Polish government or Members of Law and Justice, who specialized primarily in insulting others. On the other hand, the European Commission has started the procedure and here the most important problem arises, because the condition of the civilised world is respect for the three divisions of power and also respect for the finality of the Constitutional Tribunal judgments. And that's the difference between the Civic Platform, that when the Constitutional Court's judgment comes, we respect it, unlike the Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] According to the standards, Madam President, according to the Council of Europe standards, the possibility of excluding judges cannot result in the impossibility or inability of a constitutional court to rule. It's an absolute alphabet. Now you're talking about sovereignty. Of course, you can approach this case like this. Poland has absolute sovereignty, it says conventions, it can come out of the Council of Europe, it can even come out of the European Union, because there is such a mechanism provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon, it is only necessary to be consistent, or we apply the principles and the rule of law, to an issue which is most important in the article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, or we do not apply. This is the most important issue, because as far as the number of judges is concerned, the selection procedure, the question of who chooses judges, indeed each Member State has the right to its decisions, while as regards the finality of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, the fact that they must be published and recognised is that the Constitutional Tribunal is the only one who can assess whether something is constitutional or not, that is the alphabet. If someone does not want to acknowledge this, he should not be a member of the European Union. That needs to be made clear and honest. I want to say more about Orbán here because you're talking about Orbán all the time. The Member herself said that Hungary behaved in a very similar way to Poland. No, it's not. That is the difference that Orbán is a pragmatist, he is a negotiator, he has friends, he is in the largest faction in the European Parliament. I myself defended him in the European Parliament because he was in dialogue, he was ready to withdraw from some of his decisions, he was ready to modify them. He insisted very rarely on certain matters, never insulted anyone. That's the difference. First of all, he had friends, and you are completely deprived of them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If Orbán had heard that his minister was writing insulting letters, if Orbán had seen Fidesz in the Hungarian Parliament, who insulted the Venice Commission or the European Union, he would immediately have called them into order, because it is simply completely counterproductive and it really makes it difficult, I am not at this moment, I would not want to be in the government's place, because such insulting partners, disavowing the European institutions would only make government's work more difficult. As usual, you're shooting yourself in the foot because you're just extremely unprofessional. And that will be a problem for Poland. As far as the United States is concerned, because this was also the case here, of course in the United States it is possible to discuss Supreme Court judgments, it is only possible to hold a debate if any politician did not recognise the Supreme Court's judgment, that he would put himself on the margin of American politics, both Republican and Democrat, and no one would take him seriously. The problem is that no one has ever gone as far as you have gone in these 100 days, no one who is a member of civilized states. This is the problem that you are trying to systematically attack the constitutional foundations of the country, and this is the problem for Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a problem for the government, because the government will have to explain, and will not have time to defend the most important interests for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u188	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Aleksandr Stępkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u189	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, There's been a lot of questions. I'll try to answer all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned... Let's start with a case that is repeated most often, from the question that is repeated most often, from the question of publication. As far as I'm concerned, all the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal that have been delivered so far have been published. Ladies and gentlemen, the founder of the constitutional court, Hans Kelsen, indicated that democracy is a procedure. Therefore, if you were to sit here as full members of 460 Members, but would not follow the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, then Prime Minister Beata Szydło would be obliged to refuse to publish the position of this body because it was not adopted in the manner appropriate for the adoption of laws. [[Applause]] Analogical is the situation when it comes to court proceedings, including a constitutional court. Therefore, there are codes of civil, criminal, administrative procedure to determine what is right and what meets the standards of the rule of law. The meeting or meeting of courts, judges of the constitutional court, which took place on 8 and 9 March, followed the principles which the Polish legal order does not know. We don't know what the rules were. It was supposed to be based on the Constitution, but the Constitution speaks of 15 judges of the court, the Constitutional Tribunal, while 12 judges took part in this meeting. Art. 197 of the Constitution clearly states that the court's procedure and organisation are governed by the law. This law was in force, it was published, and yet it was ignored. Until now, the Constitutional Tribunal has always stressed the principle of presumption of constitutionality of acts properly adopted and published. In this case, he resigned, no one knows why. A similar situation is taking place as regards the content of the Venice Commission's opinion, where the government tried to point out - for example, at the point on the issue of a safeguard order - that so far the Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly, in its full composition, 15 judges, made a very firm statement on the inadmissibility of such an order by the Constitutional Tribunal. This time, last year, 30 November, without any justification, the Constitutional Tribunal decided otherwise. There are a lot of question marks around the proper functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. All these controversys should be resolved. They should be resolved as a result of a peaceful debate, including a political debate. It is not always calm, as we could see today. In any event, let these comments serve you as an answer to the question of the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Another issue related to alleged resentment - alleged resentment, I stress - of the government's opinion on the Venice Commission. The Polish government has repeatedly stressed that the Venice Commission has voluntarily gone beyond the scope of the proposal. The Venice Commission is to advise the governments of the states. The Polish government addressed the Venice Commission, but the Venice Commission did not necessarily follow the proposal, but it is difficult to say what, the desire to do so, rather than to take another position. On the other hand, this situation undoubtedly violates a certain relationship, trust, which is extremely important in international relations. This was the case in the event of a leak in the draft opinion. When this was expounded within the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, it was understood, which was also reflected in the statements of both the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission itself. It's not like that, democracy isn't about accepting some kind of dogma, it's about accepting a certain body as infallible. The same is true of the opinion of the Venice Commission. The Polish government has sent an opinion to the Venice Sejm Commission, because it mainly directed its comments to it, and hopes that the opinion of the Venice Commission will become an object and a cause for a serious debate to address the burning problem that we are facing in the country. However, in no way will we be brought closer to a variety of phillips and effective - perhaps someone thinks so - oratory or pseudotypes. [[P.S.P., that's for sure.]] The government's responsibility for implementation has been mentioned several times here, as if it were to carry out the opinion of the Venice Commission. I would like to emphasise with emphasis that the President of the Venice Commission, Gianni Buquicchio, himself, has repeatedly said that there is no state that has fully implemented any opinion of the Venice Commission. And it's something completely normal. The Venice Commission itself does not consider its opinions to be dogmatic. Moreover, our opinion on the Constitutional Tribunal was not unanimous. There were members who, during the discussion, pointed to... [[With this plural number, the Minister has sprung up.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] No, I did not accelerate with the plural because, while one of the members of the Venice Commission had actually made a clear statement of his votum separatum, there were more members who stressed, for example, that the Venice Commission had too politically formulated the text of its opinion while it was to be an expert body, a legal body. [[Who did that? Specifically, Minister. You're pressing charges, that's exactly what you're saying.]] These are not accusations, this is information, Madam Member. [[Then who is it?]] [[Go ahead, Minister.]] As far as the Council of Europe procedure is concerned... [[Speech outside the microphone]] Marshal, may I ask... [[Tell the truth, Minister, that's what we expect.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been peaceful, and I ask that we also end this point calmly. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Alexander Stępkowski: As regards the procedure launched by the European Commission, I would like to remind you that in 2014 the Polish Government was extremely sceptical about this procedure and undoubtedly Mr Trzakowski knows something about it, because he probably took an active part in the formulation of this extremely sceptical opinion on this procedure, which is likely to violate the Article. The 5th treaty. Poland was not the only one who expressed this kind of opinion. It is surprising that, with the change of political configuration, suddenly such a huge uncriticism reigned in this matter. [[But what non-criticism? I don't like the fact that you're censored. I don't like it very much.]] [[Quiet!]] First of all... [[The voice from the hall: Then tell it out loud that you don't like it.]] Above all, it is not about what we like or dislike, it is about what is compatible with EU law and what is not compatible with it. [[The Poles don't like it.]] Therefore, the question of any continuation of this procedure, of non-procurement - what exactly is it? a certain internal pragmatism of the conduct of a specific body, from which no obligations arise at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] for you - it is a completely separate matter. [[But then there's art. 7.]] No one serious in the European Union shall take into account the launch of the Article procedure. 7. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. Before you proceed to the next point, you will allow me to read the information. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs submitted a report on the government draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. And a second piece of information. The Extraordinary Commission has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Family and Care Code. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws (prints 275 and 327). I ask Mr Mark Owl to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I have the honour to submit to the High House a report on the work of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and certain other laws. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of this law is to implement in the national legal order the Directives on explosives for civil use and the two Directives on pyrotechnic articles. Let me remind you that this is precisely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles, the Directive of 26 February 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and the control of explosives intended for civil use and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 establishing, in accordance with the Directive of the European Community, the European Parliament and of the Council, a system for the traceability of pyrotechnic articles. The implementation of these Directives requires the amendment of the Act of 21 June 2002 on explosives intended for civil use and amendments to four other laws, i.e. the Act of 22 June 2001 on the pursuit of an economic activity carried out in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police-purpose products and technology, i.e. the concession law, the Act of 28 October 2002 on liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under penalty, the Act of 16 November 2006 on tax and the Law of 9 June 2011 on geological and mining law. Work on the draft law was carried out within the framework of the subcommittee set up on 9 and 10 March and during the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on 15 March this year. 27 amendments were introduced during the work. The amendments tabled concerned in particular the clarification of the provisions contained in the draft law. Each of these amendments had a positive opinion of both the Ministry of Development and the Parliamentary Legislative Office. Representatives of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection also participated in the work of the committee and the subcommittee. Finally, I would like to thank all the members of the committee, and in particular the members of the subcommittee appointed to work on this law, and representatives of the Ministry of Development, the Minister for his personal involvement, representatives of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Parliamentary Legislative Office. I hope that, as during the committee's work, the proposed records will be accepted by representatives of all clubs. On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I ask that the report be adopted and that this resolution be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u192	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Antoni Duda to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club with regard to the government draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws, print No 275. The purpose of this law is to implement in the national legal order the directive on explosives intended for civil use and two Directives on pyrotechnic materials, i.e. Directive 2013/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles and Directive 2014/28/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and control of explosives for civil uses and Commission Implementing Directive 2014/58/EU of 16 April 2014 establishing, in accordance with Directive 2007/23/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, a system for the traceability of pyrotechnic articles. Implementation of the above mentioned provisions In particular, the directives require the amendment of the Law of 21 June 2002 on explosives intended for civil use, which is a fundamental legal act governing this issue. In addition, it is necessary to draw up two regulations of the Minister of Economic Affairs for the adoption of a law containing the provisions implementing the Directives in question on specific safety requirements and procedures for assessing the conformity of explosives intended for civil use and pyrotechnic articles. In addition, it is necessary to amend four other laws: the Act of 22 June 2001 on the execution of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military and police goods and technology, the Act of 28 October 2002 on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under penalty, the Act of 16 November 2006 on the levy and the Act of 9 June 2011 on geological and mining law. The proposed amendments to the Act include the following main problem areas: obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of explosives intended for civil use and pyrotechnic articles, and, in the case of explosives intended for civil use, additionally authorised representatives of the manufacturer, related to ensuring compliance of those devices with essential safety requirements, as well as informing users of those materials and pyrotechnic articles of the conditions of safe use; obligations of the modified units related to the designation of pyrotechnic articles by means of registration numbers and the keeping of a register of registration numbers given; rules for the control of movements of explosives intended for civil use and ammunition, including movements by transit of such materials through the territory of the Republic of Poland; surveillance of the market for explosives intended for civil use. Control tasks for these materials used in mining, which represents up to 98% of the market for explosives for civil use in Poland, have been and will continue to be performed by the Higher Mining Authority. Another area is sanctions for economic operators operating in the area of these pyrotechnic materials and articles for failing to comply with the requirements of the Act. When amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use in connection with the implementation of the Directives, amendments were also introduced to remove the ambiguities in the existing legislation governing the issue, identified in the course of their practical application by public administrations and economic operators involved in the acquisition, storage and use of explosives for civil use. In summary, the proposed changes to the rules are intentional and contribute to safeguarding the interests of the Polish State, contributing to the improvement of the level of safety of citizens and at the same time to users of explosives intended for civil use and pyrotechnic articles. They also contribute to the elimination of various obstacles to intra-Community trade. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the provisions of the amended Act in print No 275 and recommend its adoption by the Sejm. Thank you for your attention. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u194	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u195	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At first, I wanted to thank you for the answers I gave to the questions I asked at first reading. They've arrived, so I'm satisfied and thank you very much. In view of the need to implement European Union legislation in the national legal order, i.e. three relevant documents, first, the Directives of Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles of 12 June 2013, second, the Directives of Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and the control of explosives intended for civil use of 26 February 2014, thirdly, the European Commission Implementing Directive establishing a system for the identification of pyrotechnic articles of 16 April 2014, the Civic Platform supports the draft law which is being examined in the High Chamber. We are announcing that we will support all the provisions that have been written down in this project. The proposed amendment will address a number of important issues: firstly, the obligations imposed on manufacturers and distributors of pyrotechnic materials and explosives intended for civil use in the information and safe use of these products, secondly, the obligations of notified bodies related to the marking of pyrotechnic articles by means of registration numbers, thirdly, the control of the movement of explosives and ammunition in Poland and transit through the territory of the Republic of Poland. Another important issue is the supervision of the market for explosives used in mining. The task remains to regulate the supervision of the market for explosives used for demolition works. It is also important to discuss sanctions for companies dealing with explosives and pyrotechnics. I would like to remind you that according to the statistics we obtained, the size of the explosive market in Poland is about PLN 0.5 billion, and the amount of the penalty, the sanctions provided for in the draft law, is from 10,000. Up to 100,000. zł. I wanted to ask the Minister to explain why this methodology is based on what it refers to, why such indicators were proposed, whether they were appropriate to the size of the market, or whether another solution could be set which could change these levels. On the other hand, the Civic Platform welcomes the fact that these regulations, which will be adopted, will regulate the market for explosives and pyrotechnics in terms of manufacturing, marketing, distribution and safety. A new solution is also the issue of environmental protection. Such decisions have so far not been in Poland, and that is, I believe, in accordance with the principles of our membership of the European Union. In conclusion, we consider it appropriate to introduce these provisions, and we will therefore vote in favour of the provisions contained in Draft Print Law No 327. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u196	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Act on Explosives for Civil Use and some other laws together with draft implementing acts. The aim of the project is to organise, clarify, clarify and supplement the regulations that define, inter alia, obligations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of pyrotechnic articles and explosives intended for civil use. It is also intended to regulate the rules for controlling their movements, additional procedures in the market surveillance system to improve the safety of users, the introduction of criminal sanctions for non-compliance with the law, etc. The basis here is the implementation of European Union law. This entails amendments to the Act on the performance of business activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology, the Tax Tax Act and several other laws. These changes will result in an extension of the scope of the Act on issues relating to the issue and withdrawal of authorisations for the manufacture of explosives, obligations of economic operators marketing or making available on the market explosives for civil uses or pyrotechnic articles and obligations of notification bodies or the supervisory authorities. The Kukiz Club has already pointed out that the proposed changes in the law will entail an increase in administrative burdens, in particular concerning the marking of pyrotechnic articles by registration numbers and the keeping of registers. In addition, these burdens will also increase in connection with the examination and recording of complaints concerning pyrotechnic articles presenting a risk, the requirement of close cooperation between traders and market surveillance authorities and the introduction of the need for traders to prepare various types of control documents and the implementation of post-control applications. We also pointed out that the adoption of the proposal for a law mentioned above will mean another implementation of EU law, which we do not think is necessary in Polish law at all, because the regulations that we have are sufficient. This is another element when we are faced with the top-down imposition of EU law, which we believe to be unreasonably and very often ad hoc, in response, to justify the fact that the European Union is doing whatever it does to ensure the safety of its citizens. Typically, these are different types of regulation that over-regulates the market, making it difficult for entrepreneurs and, in fact, not facilitating security problems. We do not deny the need for discussion and to find legal solutions that will improve citizens' security on the one hand, but do not, on the other hand, entail an increase in administrative burdens - again, we also want to point out that there is a need to think deeply about the state of our independence and subjectivity in implementing legislation. The proposals presented in the draft law basically only lead to what I mentioned, i.e. overregulation, although there are individual points that could be implemented, such as those elements that improve the safety of explosives on the market. To conclude, we really stand very strongly on the basis of the desire to change the approach that the European Union is giving us to implement. We would like a much greater subjectivity of the Polish parliament on this issue and a much broader discussion about what we are implementing or adding to Polish law. In this situation we will be basically and unlike the Law and Justice Club and the Civic Platform we, as in the case of the Act on Trading so-called. explosives precursors, we will not vote in favour of this implementation. This is an expression of our position in relation to such, not another application of various kinds of EU law and in our opinion, the littering of Polish legislative space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u198	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Cyranski... [[There's no envoy.]] There isn't? This is Mr. Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. I understand you're exhausting the club all the time. [[Yes.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u199	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The regulation of the market for explosives for civil uses is extremely specialised. It aims to put this market under scrutiny by state authorities and to lay down criminal and administrative sanctions for infringements of those rules. The purpose of the regulation is to define procedures to increase safety at the design, manufacture, use and transport stage of explosives. The revision implements the provisions of the three directives of the European Union from 2013 and 2014. The basic principles for regulating the market for explosives for civil uses, including pyrotechnic articles and ammunition, should be mentioned at the outset, as pyrotechnic articles and ammunition are also, of course, explosives. First, an economic operator must be authorised to manufacture and store explosives, move and use them, which is governed by the concession law, i.e. the Act of 22 June 2001 on the pursuit of economic activities in the field of the manufacture and marketing of explosives, weapons, ammunition and military or police-purpose products and technology. Unlicensed activities and concessions constitute a criminal offence. Secondly, the design and manufacture of explosives must comply with the safety requirements laid down in the legislation. The manufacturer shall be required to obtain an EU type-examination certificate issued by a notified body authorised for that purpose which examines both the technical documentation of the product and the sample of the product. The manufacturer shall, after obtaining the certificate, draw up a declaration of EU conformity which shall entitle him to affix the CE marking on the material. The manufacturer in serial production is to obtain products identical to the sample that has been certified. The manufacturer is also obliged to submit instructions for use and information to the product. The breach of security requirements is to be subject to an administrative penalty. Thirdly, the carriage of explosives across the state border requires authorisation and the absence of such explosives is punishable by criminal sanctions. Fourthly, the storage, possession or use of explosives for civil uses shall be subject to control by the authorities of the State and the restriction or prohibition of controls shall be punishable by a fine. The Modern Club recommends that the Sejm adopt the draft law as set out in the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development with several amendments. First, instead of repeating the same thing in several criminal laws (i.e. in Art. 63. 2, Article Article 63a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) 2, Article 63b. 2, Article 63c paragraph. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). Article 65 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a), may be, in the form of a provision of Article. 308 of the Penal Code, introduce one provision - Article. 65a as follows: The offences referred to in this Chapter shall also be the responsibility of the person who, on the basis of a Designed art. 65a-65j would therefore be numbered in Article. 65b-65h. The proposed amendment will contribute to reducing the volume of the text of the legislative act, which in itself is its value, and will follow the wording of the Penal Code, which is a model legal act in this field of law. Secondly, in the draft article. 65j paragraph. 3 the wording is replaced by the following: "Money penalties shall be enforced under the rules on enforcement in the administration in respect of the execution of obligations of a monetary nature." Because the provision to enforce obligations of a monetary nature is unnecessary, as it states that a monetary penalty is a provision of money, which is obvious. Therefore, the quoted wording is proposed to be deleted. And thirdly, the designed art. 65i paragraph. The following 4 are added: "The fine shall not be collected after 3 years from the date of the final decision on the imposition of the penalty, we propose to improve on: "The fine shall be valid after 3 years from the date of the final decision on the imposition of the penalty.' This will not give rise to any doubt as to the nature of the three-year deadline, namely that it will be clear that the statute of limitations, including suspension and interruption of the deadline, will apply to that period. The law, ladies and gentlemen, should be clear and precise. Having regard to the above, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A positive opinion on the draft law should be given, together with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you so much for the corrections. And now I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u201	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to comment on amendments to the Act on Explosives for Civil Use. The security and distribution of explosives for civil use has been under control so far. It is important, very important, that these measures, which can at any time pose a potential threat to citizens, because today we are dealing with this very often, that such materials somewhere are taken or produced by corners and are even used in various terrorist actions... This is very important and important. Today we must go with the spirit of time and what has already been introduced, as recommended by the European Union directives, to our right. It is important and important that there is a uniform system of security of distribution, movement, security of explosives, those we most often use in mines, quarrying or blowing up objects somewhere in construction that are destroyed to ensure proper supervision and control. This concerns the whole area of the European Union, as well as the European Free Trade Association EFTA, the Swiss Confederation, except Turkey, because Turkey did not implement this right to its legislation. That is why we believe that these solutions should be adopted, because they will serve the security of our citizens and, at the same time, allow control in the distribution, import and border crossing, because this right will have to be respected and applied in this whole area of the European Union, as I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u202	Thank you very much, sir. One person came to the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. Time, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law regulates the question of ensuring that pyrotechnic articles and explosives for civil use made available on the market comply with the essential safety requirements, in accordance with the new European Union Directives. An important element is to increase the safety of users of these products and bystanders. I would like to ask: If, after the entry into force of the Act, any records of entities and citizens who acquire significant quantities of pyrotechnic materials or explosives intended for civil use will be kept by... Will this record be kept by the services or other authorities of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u204	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Mr Tadeusz Kościński to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your comments and questions. Firstly, the level of penalties depends on the fact that these are mostly small and medium-sized producers. As for the question about the register, each holder is obliged to keep such records. I will send you detailed questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Senior Policy Committee and the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (Prints 261 and 336). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. I invite you, sir. [[I'm coming. I'm coming. I'm just in time, I see.]] A little late. [[No, I'm already downstairs.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Health and Senior Policy, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the Act amending the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare and certain other laws, Parliamentary Printing No 261, Committee Report - Print No 336. At the time of the procedure for this law, a subcommittee was set up and a report was drawn up within the framework of the work of the subcommittee, which I would like to recommend to the High House on behalf of the joint committees. The vote was positive for this project and this is the recommendation I present. At the same time, I would like to point out that a rather long debate took place during the work, both at first reading and during the work of the subcommittee, on this project, and especially on the article. 1. During the procedure of the subcommittee's report, she was also extended to discuss the comments submitted by the Sejm Analysis Office. This discussion was particularly concerned with the issue of whether only primary healthcare professionals should have the right to prescribe medicines for patients after 75 years of age or about other doctors. There was also a discussion on the possible form of information about these medicines, the date when this will be presented, and finally the target group of patients. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, different opinions on the subject were wiped out. The majority received an opinion, which was recommended by the government party, so that for one financial reason at least... I stress that the funds that will be mobilised for the implementation of this law will be additional budget money, money outside the current and future expenditures of the National Health Fund, this year the amount of PLN 125 million, and in the following years - more and more expenditure, reaching over PLN 1 billion. For these reasons, also due to the IT system, which does not give the possibility to fully monitor health events, especially online, it has been decided to introduce this type of restriction, targeting, in terms of this assistance - so patients after 75 years of age and possible prescribe primary healthcare by doctors. In the course of the discussion, there was also an issue related to the functioning of primary healthcare professionals. There has been information that perhaps one of the additional effects of implementing this law will be to increase the role of primary healthcare doctors, as they should ultimately have information about all medical events that concern patients with an option. By the way, there will be some relief from the burden of specialist doctors by not having to prescribe continued treatment in specialist doctors' offices and handing this role to primary health care, both doctors and nurses who work in this basic health care. Other comments were made in this patient group. It was considered appropriate, for example, for budgetary reasons, to limit this aid and to provide free medicines to patients of 75+. Finally, calculations were also presented that the reimbursement of medicines in this group of patients had been allocated to some PLN 860 million so far and therefore the amount of PLN 564 million, which will be allocated in the next year, will result in proportional, relatively large aid in this group, especially as the number of medicines prescribed is expected to increase, these medicines are free, at the expense of medicines that are potentially not covered by these records. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the High Committees recommend the High House to give a positive opinion on this draft law. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u208	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the field of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws presented in print No 261. The introduction of free medicines for recipients aged 75 years old is an action planned in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło to implement in the first months of government action. The government draft law on the introduction of free refunded medicines listed in the list, which will be gradually extended to recipients who have completed 75 years of age, is an important step towards fulfilling the obligation enshrined in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that public authorities are obliged to provide special care to the elderly. After the age of 75, as those to whom special care is due, the legislator has already indicated in the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits, granting them the right to a care allowance without the need to indicate other conditions beyond age. According to the Ministry of Health's information, the highest use of medicines is at this age. This has been said many times. Elderly patients are a population that consumes the largest number of per capita packs, as has already been mentioned. In response to the expectations of seniors, this government bill addresses the phenomenon of the lack of effective access of older people to treatment, also for economic reasons. These problems are not marginal because according to the Central Statistical Office at the end of 2014 the population of seniors after 75 years of age was estimated to be around 3 million people in Poland. The proposed changes will really relieve seniors' domestic budgets from part of drug spending. Thanks to these changes we have a real chance to increase the availability of medicines, which will improve the health and quality of life of Polish patients. The project provides for the granting of free medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices listed by the Minister responsible for Health by means of a notice to recipients after the age of 75. This list would include medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices for which final administrative decisions to be covered by the refund or final amending decisions referred to in Article are issued. The 16th Refund Act. The basis for receiving the products in question will be a free prescription issued by a primary healthcare doctor, a primary healthcare nurse or a doctor who has the right to pursue a profession who has ceased to pursue the profession and has issued a prescription for himself or for his spouse, initial, straight-lined and siblings. Authorisation of the recipient after the age of 75 to supply medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses free of charge and medical devices included in the list referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Refund Act is implemented only on the basis of age criterion. The draft law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws is expected to enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The draft law 75+ provides for a mechanism for funding from the State budget, from the part at the disposal of the Minister of Health, the difference between the limit and the retail price. This means that the costs of medicines, special purpose foodstuffs and medical devices necessary to improve and maintain health will be borne by the state budget. The economic impact can be identified as positive due to the State's involvement in financing the purchase of products not yet bought for economic reasons by patients. The economic situation of the participants in the marketing of the refunded products will thus be improved. On the one hand, public spending will be increased, but on the other hand the health and quality of life of older people will be improved and hospitalisation costs will be reduced due to the lack of prescribed medicines. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a chance to implement laws guaranteeing people 75+ free medicines and significantly improve the status of seniors in Poland. Project 75+ is a good and expected change for seniors. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask you to adopt the law in the proposed wording. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u210	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Sławomir Zawislak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With the privilege of continuing to pass on the position of the PiS club on the matter already mentioned under the Government bill, I would like to stress that demographic changes in the ageing population in our country pose new challenges for those in charge of ensuring fair and well-deserved care for an increasing number of citizens, the elderly. We know that the fact is that, especially after over 75 years of age, the need for medical and caring services is growing, and people over 85 usually need constant care. The government has decided through this project to fulfil its obligation to appreciate and the environment the special health care of older people, the older generation, which meets the requirements of a broadly understood senior policy that cares for decent living conditions, the ageing of our citizens. We all know that human ageing is also associated with inseparable multi-morbidity, which entails the need to take many pharmaceuticals. It generates costs. Statistics show that more and more elderly people run single households, i.e. some of them have to share their living with their health, so that they can have a little more than 1 000. zł per month. As a result, studies show that up to a third of seniors do not always buy medicines written by a doctor. The reason, as always, is the lack of money. Financial considerations can also be explained by the fact that about 30% of seniors may take a lower dose than recommended by their doctor. The same number of people take medicines less often than they should, while 21% She's interrupting therapy. This government project serves these people in a positive economic sense, and let us remind you that currently the recipients who have completed 75 years of age do not have such additional rights. Now they will be able to receive mainly medicines used to treat diseases of old age. They will, as we know, be attributed to POZ doctors who have the best contact with patients. I would like to say that it is worth to appreciate that the planned cost of the state budget for this purpose in the years 2016 and 202025 amounts to almost PLN 8.5 billion without a small amount. We know that this project is needed and meets social expectations, because it confirms this, among others. Social opinion study, in which 94% respondents supported the introduction of the right to free medicines for people aged 75 and over. These are the data from the study "Current problems and events" carried out by CBOS in February 2016. The proposed law therefore responds not only to the expectations of 70+ people, but also to the social environment. It will also help to extend the lives of seniors, to live in better condition and quality. It will reduce the number of complications, hospitalisation, and will therefore have a positive impact on reducing the real expenditure of the state on effective health protection. Knowers of the topic note that the lack of coordination of treatment, including older people, is a major problem at the moment, resulting in uncontrolled, multi-directional buying of medicines. Doctors visited by the same patient usually have no idea what medication the patient is taking. The doctor who issues the prescription will have more control over it. The project is therefore also pursuing another important objective of the government, i.e. improving the coordination of treatment. The government thinks - I think it is right - that you should not be afraid of queues, or even the other way around, with a specialist the queue will be unloaded. Taking into account the arguments put forward together with her colleague, which are the basis for the drafting of the Law and Justice Act, the Law and Justice Club welcomes this project and will, just as the colleague said, I confirm it, vote positively in favour of the Act, asking other clubs to do so as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start with the obvious that even when we help seniors a little, it makes sense. Therefore, with all determination over the last years, the governing coalition Platform-PSL has implemented senior policy. It's a senior policy she put into pro-family policy. But it has based this senior policy primarily on a very sustainable foundation, which is solidarity between the generations. You know we've been doing this policy for eight years. Now is not the time and the time to exchange what we did for seniors today. They know that better than anyone. It's just a pity that the team that came after us after the October election didn't decide to continue this policy. You have the right, of course, to present your ideas. Well, since I'm talking about these ideas, I'd like to talk about an idea that's now being presented in the form of a bill. I want to start... It is a pity that Minister Radziwiłł is not here because I wanted to start by thanking Minister Radziwiłł. Honesty, as you know, is not a particular feature of the current ruling team. A moment of honesty, which happened to the Minister of Health during committee deliberations, should be accepted with this greater recognition. Mr Radziwił said that the naivety was the faith of those who took the election promise of PiS about free medicines for seniors as an announcement of free medicines for seniors. No other government representative put it better. The Minister honestly and openly told the Poles: If you believed in our pre-election promises, you were simply naive. Everyone sitting here, most of us work in health care. We know there are no drugs for naivety. From it heals only experience, and it is the most painful experience. In order for me not to be literal, I would like to quote those words from the Minister. The Minister answered my questions: Speaking of free medicines in the election campaign, we meant, we did not mean all medicines. Honestly, it's a semantic game. I do not know if the formulation of free medicines means free of charge all medicines. Maybe someone understood it that way. If we're talking free of charge of all drugs, and if someone, I'm going to say, in their naivety, thought that these drugs, because these are drugs, sold today at gas stations will be released for free, then I'm sorry, but we didn't mean anything like that. Minister, I want to tell you that this is just a semantic game for you, and for those old people who heard your words in the campaign, it was hope. The worst thing that can happen to a politician is to play human hope. I particularly address those who take care of health care. In short, you ripped these people out of hope, you tricked them into campaigning. But you, Minister Radziwiłł - I hope that Minister Łanda, sitting here during this session, will convey these words to the Minister - should know best and not play semantic games at the meetings of the Health Committee when people who have experience and knowledge of the system are sitting there. Well, you know exactly that, and those who took part in this debate know very thoroughly that the medicines that are being refunded are those medicines that are prescribed for prescription, that these 75-year-olds and elders today do not leave hundreds of gold at gas stations, but at pharmacy windows. So it would be good to finish the semantic games, as you said. And now, substantively. Firstly, in this project, the very definition of the target group is a bad diagnosis of the location of economic barriers. We say everything after 75 years of age. We are not talking about those who at the moment have the greatest problems, who are leaving these windows, those whose state you so often set as a model, you are treating as the banner of this law, those who need to be helped first of all. Well, not only do you help them, but also help all those who are 75 years old, knowing that sometimes the most economically excluded are children who are chronically ill from many families. The project also involves favouring those who today do not belong to the poorest group of pensioners, pensioners or people after 75 years of age. The beneficiaries will also be those well-involved widows of SB officers. They're gonna be in this group because they're gonna get that privilege, too. So we're dealing with the destruction of several systems. It spends a lot of money out of the budget without guaranteeing the achievement of health objectives. I can boldly say: this is a manifest mismanagement. The promise said: free drugs for people of 75+. The promise contained no limitations. On the basis of the project, it is impossible to say what will be free or how long it will be free. One thing's for sure: not all the drugs. Then the election promise will not be kept. Next questions arise: If not all, which ones? Which pharmaceutical companies? Will Minister Radziwiłł and Minister Łanda sit down today without these clear criteria laid down in the Act and wonder over coffee which medicine should be included in the first notice? If someone tells me that the criteria under which medications should be included in this list are effectiveness and safety, then I inform ministers who should know that all medicines reimbursed must be safe and effective. They have passed their procedures: once at the medical registration office, and twice at the time when the refund decision was made. I wonder why Minister Radziwiłł answered and said that he would support seniors after 75 years of age in the area of the most expensive medicines. It's interesting. I would like to say that if we introduced today - and we tabled such an amendment, unfortunately you rejected it - the cheapest medicine, the cheapest medicine in the therapeutic group, we would in a moment create healthy competition on the pharmaceutical market for access to the limit in the therapeutic group. But if we're not doing it today, it feels like it doesn't seem like our own money. Therefore, this money is spent without an idea, without transparency, transparency and without criteria. I would also like to ask: Will the announcement that will be presented by the Minister of Health have its reasons? Is there any reason why these are the exact ones on this list, not the other ones? The last quite important thing I want to say is that the designer assigns the right to prescribe to the issuing person: a doctor or a primary healthcare nurse and a doctor who has ceased his profession. The law on amending the Health Information Act, also at the request of a medical authority, has only changed the philosophy of refund by assigning the right to a refund to a patient, not to a person who issues a prescription. Today, by assigning this role only to primary healthcare doctors, we change this idea even though the provisions of the Act are completely different. We say that today we assign refund privileges to the doctor and nurse of POZ. I have heard that this could happen, that medicines that would be prescribed by both specialists and doctors of primary healthcare would be abused. I would like to tell you, Minister, that I have before me the Journal of the Laws of 23 January 2014 and the Minister's regulation on information collected by the pharmacy and information provided to the National Health Fund. It's not true that today we don't have the instruments to find out who got the drugs in the pharmacy, how many drugs did the doctor prescribe. Thanks to this regulation, it is possible to obtain this information, of course post factum, and so does the National Health Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The last thing I want to say to you at the end. I feel a little sorry for the Minister of Health at the moment, because in a moment he will also be struggling with new diseases, which are presented as a major problem by other ministers as part of government cooperation. Today, Minister of Defence, Minister Macierewicz says that the population in Lower Silesia and Western Pomerania must be addressed in a special way, because there citizens are exposed, and it is especially electromagnetic waves. This, of course, introduced a new system, a new disease unit. And I believe that, as part of intergovernmental solidarity, perhaps Minister Radziwiłł will have a very big problem not to deal with this in a short time. I also feel sorry for Minister Łanda, who was quite critical about free medicines before he entered the government in his public speeches. But, as it turns out, all you have to do is change your place of action and optics also changes. Minister! It is difficult not to wish you success, because in such a department of success you must wish everyone. I also assume that as a doctor, you have good intentions and good will. Unfortunately, as a politician in a bad government, you serve a bad cause, but I wish you good luck not for your concern for the seniors. I wish the seniors good luck today so they can get exactly what you promised them to get free meds because that's what you said in the campaign. But knowing your politics, when you say that every kid, that's when it starts with a second kid, when you say that all the drugs, that's when there's only some drugs free of charge. I'm worried about what's gonna happen when you talk about shortening lines. When you say you've cut the queues short, it turns out you've cut the queues to the elevator at the hospital, not to the specialist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u214	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ma'am Margaret Zawierwan, Kukiz Club15. [[A mirror.]] I'm so sorry, Mrs. Margaret Mirror. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws with the draft implementing act is an extremely important project addressed to senior citizens of 75+. The entry into force of this law will enable the oldest members of our society to access some of the free medicines needed in their daily lives. The government bill not only implements the assumptions contained in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, but above all reduces the spending of seniors on medicines. In line with the draft law, the cost of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and the medical devices concerned will be borne by the State budget. In accordance with existing regulations, recipients who are 75 years of age and do not have additional rights have the same access to medicines reimbursed as other recipients. Authorisation of the recipient after the age of 75 to supply medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses free of charge and medical devices included in the list referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Refund Act is implemented only on the basis of age criterion, which is confirmed by patient information. The basis for receiving free medicines or special-purpose foodstuffs will be a prescription with the letter S issued by a primary healthcare doctor, a primary healthcare nurse or a doctor who has the right to pursue a profession who has ceased to pursue the profession and has issued a prescription for himself or for a spouse, initial straight line and siblings. In this context, it may be necessary to consider whether or not to allow geriatric doctors to prescribe prescriptions. The presence of polypragma among older people makes it seem appropriate for geriatric doctors to issue a prescription. However, they speak from the Ministry's arguments that, due to the lack of an IT system, such a solution is not possible today. Perhaps in the future, systemic solutions will have to be considered, which would also allow geriatrics and other specialists to prescribe medicines refunded in accordance with the law. The draft law implements one of the provisions of the Constitution, according to which the State should take special care of the elderly. The draft law provides for the granting of free medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices listed by the Minister of Health to this particular group of beneficiaries aged 75+. When analysing the bill, we need to consider both its negative and its positive aspects. Some of the allegations against the draft law may be repeated in favour of the Sejm Analysis Office, which in its opinion emphasizes that the law focuses only on one social group. It is true that the law does not cover the scope of other entities referred to in Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, e.g. Disabled or children who certainly also deserve exceptional state care and financial assistance implemented by the State. However, it is more striking to me that the Act omits other older people. Special aid from the state and, above all, systemic changes in the area of senior policy are also expected by seniors 60+ or 70+. Expectations related to assistance for older people both the Kukiz Club of Posel and seniors far exceed the scope of the contested law. It is fair to say that we would prefer to extend the establishment of the bill to a larger group of recipients. However, we are aware of the budgetary possibilities set out in the 2016 budget. We hope that next year's budget will make it possible to extend the group of beneficiaries of free medicines. There may also be doubts about the provision in the draft law that the Minister of Health will decide to what extent entitled persons will be able to use free medicines. This decision will therefore be linked to the needs of a specific recipient, arising both from the state of health and from the financial situation of eligible persons. The lack of specific criteria for the selection of medicines that will be included in the Minister of Health notice in the new law raises our concerns. However, we trust that, according to assurances, drugs that form the basis of the limit or are included in the limit, i.e. currently being for a fee of PLN 3.20, will not be taken into account first. We believe that the S-list will include medicines that today require seniors to co-pay at least 30%, because only such a change can clearly reduce drug spending for people over the age of 75. Among the advantages of the bill is the fact that it assumes greater freedom for the patient to choose medicines, foods for particular nutritional uses and medical devices other than those prescribed on the reception desk, but which do not create therapeutic differences. This is certainly a record that is in line with social expectations. It is also valuable that, as the Minister of Health assures, more expensive medicines are also to be refunded. It is with buying these drugs that seniors have the biggest problem. In the explanatory memorandum of the contested law, the government explains that one of its basic objectives is to prevent the phenomenon of non-buying medicines by seniors. The Act in this context is intended to provide senior citizens with access to medicines which were previously not economically possible. It is clear that older people often suffer from many underlying diseases and that the medicines they need to use are a significant burden on their monthly budget. The bill, which is so desirable by environments bringing together older people, allows seniors, regardless of their property status, to comprehensive treatment, and thus to the, desirable by the whole society, longer functioning in the health of the oldest of its representatives. This law promotes the improvement of health of the oldest Poles, which is definitely a valuable element shaping holistic senior policy in Poland. This project, which enables seniors to live better lives, is also fulfilling some of my personal expectations of the government. The longer life of seniors, improved quality are undoubtedly the advantages resulting from the implementation of this law. Undoubtedly, it is also important that the Act provides for a gradual increase in refund amounts of 15%. a year, as well as a gradual extension of the free list of medicines for seniors. As the Kukiz Posel Club15, we had more expectations about this bill, but we hope that this is only the beginning of important changes in the context of senior policy. The Kukiz Group will vote in favour of law 75+.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u216	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The procedated bill introducing free medicines for seniors 75+ is not a revolutionary solution. It operates in many countries of the European Union and certainly has nothing to do with the implementation of electoral promises and promises made during the campaign. The objectives of the programme set out in the Act, such as ensuring the economy and reliability of public spending and the need to ensure the effectiveness of the provision of health care services, are very noble, but I have considerable doubts as to whether this law will meet these objectives. Modern agrees with the government, with the government's position on the difficult position of many older people and will support the government in fulfilling the State's obligation under Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Constitution, which obliges public authorities to provide specific health care, among others. for the elderly. However, the Act does not take into account the constitution of pregnant women, children or persons with disabilities enshrined in this Article. The aim of the Act is to combat the lack of effective access of older people to treatment for economic reasons. Many people gave up buying medicine for financial reasons, which led to a deterioration of their health and ultimately increased the costs associated with hospitalization of these people. However, this problem is also faced by large families, for whom the lack of state support is still an unsolved problem. Senior health will improve if seniors are able to take medications that they will receive for free. According to the 2015 Social Diagnosis data 13,4% patients in Poland resign from buying medicines. The Ministry of Health argues that this meets the needs of approx. 3 million seniors who spend a large part of their home budgets on drugs. According to IMS Health, the value of medicines purchased by this age group in 2015 reached a dizzying level of more than PLN 4 billion, of which PLN 860 million was paid for the medicines reimbursed. As a result, last year each senior statistically allocated a total of about 120 PLN per month. The expenses for the 75+ medicines themselves are only 25 PLN. The draft law was consulted with 26 stakeholders and some comments were taken into account by the Ministry, which deserves praise. This is how lawmaking should be carried out. The Act provides for a clear and non-chargeable system of verification of recipients only through the PESEL number, which does not generate additional costs or bureaucracy. The project also takes into account high flexibility for pharmacists in the use of substitutes. The condition is that there are no therapeutic differences, which is obvious in the use of medication. The good news is that the senior's will is respected: if he wants a newer generation or more expensive medicine, he will be entitled to it for 100 percent of his payment without the need to go back to the doctor for a new prescription. The government also introduces a monthly monitoring system for the use of annual limits and an adjustment mechanism known from the reimbursement law. The gradual increase in the refund in subsequent years set out in the financial plan shall take account of the increase in the number of persons entitled to benefits, as a result of demography. That also indicates that the bill is reasonable. The impact assessment according to the recommendation of the applicants is to be carried out one year after the publication of the first notice containing the list of medicines reimbursed. However, there are no assumptions as to how to carry out this assessment. We agree on the objective, but we disagree on the methods, we disagree on the form of this law. We believe that the reform in its proposed form contains serious shortcomings on a number of issues that have been addressed, among others. Sejm Analysis Office. And so the impossible solution is to give only POZ doctors the right to prescribe prescriptions. Seniors are loaded with long queues to their offices. However, the bill will lead to a situation in which during a visit to a senior specialist he will not receive a prescription for free medicines. Instead of going to the pharmacy, he will be forced to visit the primary health care facility again. Minister Radziwiłł said during his work in committee that it is assumed that this way they will be relieved at least partially of queues to specialists. The right direction, because if the senior is to go twice to the doctor, for the first time to a specialist, for the second time to the POZ for a free prescription, maybe, as the Minister said, he'll cancel his appointment with a specialist or at least he'll go there less often. It's just that they're really wishful thinking. In order to save 2 or 3 PLN, the senior will have to spend half a day. This is not a solution that is accepted by seniors. In addition, POZ bets are not ready to receive seniors. Additional funding for diagnostics in POZ facilities should be launched to reduce the number of referrals to specialists. Maybe there's a way to get rid of the line to the specialists. A smaller number of necessary visits remaining without affecting the quality of health care and education in strict compliance with the doctor's recommendations - this is real and expected help for the senior. One doctor will see what medications different specialists recommend, so there is a chance that medications that are excluded will be able to be corrected at the prescription stage. And that's the right direction. Unfortunately, the bill lacked competence for geriatric doctors to issue prescriptions with free drugs. Who else, if not the specialists in this field, can deal comprehensively with the health problems of seniors? This can actually improve the effects of treatment and reduce hospitalisation costs, which is the purpose of this law. In our opinion, doctors working in hospital emergency services should also be able to write prescriptions with free medications. Many seniors could then be sent home with a prescription for free medication instead of paying very high hospital treatment costs and could be relieved at this point very overloaded hospital emergency services. It is also necessary to introduce health-promoting policies and prevention and information programmes in the POZ to raise the awareness of health-promoting elderly people and to consolidate their normal habits for health control and treatment of treated diseases and to promote geriatric doctors. This is essential for the development of health policies for seniors and at the same time would have a positive impact on the whole health care system. There is also serious doubt as to how the list of medicines to be refunded will be created. This list will be a special list published in the notice by the Minister of Health and is intended to contain medicines dedicated to older people. The kind of medicine that the key is chosen by, unfortunately, was missing in this project. The subcommittee also failed to get an answer to these very fundamental questions. Information on administrative costs is also not included in the project. Here, too, the question arises as to whether the implementation of the law will generate any administrative costs, in what form, whether funds are provided for in the budget, etc. The 75+ programme will not contribute to a systemic solution to the health care problem for the elderly. The overall level of costs of medicines financed from their own pockets is simply too high. According to estimates by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the share of private expenditure in total expenditure on non-prescription medicines is 62% in Poland. , most of the countries of the European Union. Such point repair of the faulty system, such washing of the new patch on the old clothes will have no effect. The situation of senior citizens in our country will also be disastrously affected by the planned withdrawal of pension reform. On the one hand, we pay a few zlotys a month without any meaningful plan, and on the other hand we undermine the amount of future pensions. We might just not be able to handle it. Therefore, I submit to your marshals proposals for amendments to the law concerning, first, the granting of powers to geriatric doctors and health care professionals in hospital emergency services to prescribe free medicines and, secondly, that the Minister of Health should adopt, within 6 months of the date of entry into force of the law, a health policy programme aimed at raising the level of health awareness of elderly people and strengthening their normal habits for health control and management of treated diseases, believing that they will be taken into account and that this will be the beginning of further work on health policy towards seniors. The modern position is that there should be as little policy on health as possible and as much substantive work as possible. There's a lot of pathology in health today, and we're ready to work hard. You can't fix a complicated system with one hammer hit. There needs to be a profound reform of the system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u218	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you for the correction. And I would like to ask Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u219	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing an extremely important issue, which is important for several reasons. Firstly, it concerns the age group, it concerns the population of older people, the population of dignified age, which is extremely trusting. He doesn't go out on the streets, trusts people, trusts pre-election announcements. Today, this group of people is growing in Poland, because the demographic changes that are taking place show that we are an ageing society. It's gonna be about 60, 70, 80 and 100 years old. It is a group of people who contributed a lot to the development of Poland, in difficult moments participated in the fight for freedom, for independence of Poland. These social aspects, historical aspects, should also be remembered by such a law. And you can't fool these people. They can't be fooled in an election campaign by saying it's all gonna be drugs for people over the age of 75. Despite your explanations, all the seniors I'm seeing during the election campaign understood that this was supposed to be free medicine for seniors after 75 years of age. Many have even heard that it's only for seniors, but I'm skipping that. Such expressions of distrust Unfortunately, in these 4 months of government, the PiS is very much. One such expression of lack of confidence is the agricultural system law, which we are also debating in Parliament. You don't trust farmers, you don't trust seniors, you have to ask who you trust, unless it's the institutions that you expand and expand. We have a draft law that concerns family policy and social policy, which is a programme not only from health policy, but it is a social programme to some extent, and good. In our program, in the program of the Polish People's Party there was a similar point, only these were genuinely free medicines for seniors, not selected medicines, we do not know exactly, Minister, what medicines. It is also a problem in the discussion on this law that there are no implementing acts to this law, there are no regulations that we could discuss. There are no regulations that we can find out what the drugs are going to be. This is still very lacking and that is what seniors are asking when they come to our Members' Offices and ask questions about what drugs they will be because they were all supposed to be. Ladies and gentlemen! Our program was about genuinely free meds for seniors. This is a need for support particularly at the time of retirement. For the last four years we have heard that we sentence Poles to work until they die, which is up to 67 years old. Then why the 75-year-old? How are these people supposed to look forward to 75 years of age when PiS for 4 years said that the previous government condemns everyone in Poland to work until death? Nobody's gonna be waiting for these free meds if we're just walking your mind. I understand that this line of thinking was current when you were in opposition, and when you rule, you need to change not only the point of view, but the whole philosophy. It is difficult to talk about this project without specific regulations. Again, I would like to emphasize that because it does not give a full picture. Our very large doubts are raised by the fact that only POZ doctors will be able to prescribe prescriptions, it has already been raised before. They should all prescribe these prescriptions. All those who have the right to issue prescriptions. Nothing bad would have happened. And then maybe the queues would be cut short, not forced by the elderly to be marathons. Today, Mrs Możjanowska rightly said that this bill would make Polish senior marathons. They're gonna be running from a specialist's appointment to POZ, because no sick man, the minister knows it well, he's an expert, he's not gonna give up on a diabetologist, geriatrics, rheumatologists. He's gonna go, and if he doesn't get a prescription there, he's gonna go to P.O.P. and that line is gonna go up anyway. That's the kind of reel we're gonna do to seniors, you're gonna do to seniors. Don't be, because you can give those powers to everyone. This is the amendment submitted by the Polish People's Party. What kind of drugs are they gonna be? In this pot of money, we know for sure, there will be few medications, or there will be more medications, but the cheaper ones, and there will be no special medicines, e.g. drugs for dementia at an early stage, which are very expensive, are a new generation. The question is whether it will only be generics whose effect may differ to 20% from the basic medicine. These issues to resolve and doubt, which seniors have today, are very much. As far as costs are concerned, they are disproportionate, first of all, to the expectations of seniors. They expected it to be a really rich program if, on the one hand, you were able to promise programs before the election for a dozen, several tens, several hundred billion, because that's what you have to say. The tax-free amount, the 500+ programme, the President's promise, the last one, for the franchise, calculated by the KNF, is over 60 billion. I don't think you're gonna give up on her. Here you offer 125 million seniors, and you give programs for several tens or several hundred billion in total, it is somehow offensive to a group of older people, groups of people of dignified age who deserve respect. I don't know if you've asked the Senior Citizens' Parliament about this. I think it would be a consultation because such a parliament has been appointed. Unfortunately, there is no positive continuation in the holistic approach to senior policy. In senior politics, health is very important, it should have its accent. You have a good diagnosis, and here I can agree, only the prescription you are proposing today, which you are prescribing today, is not appropriate to your needs. She will not heal this system, and above all she will not meet the expectations of seniors. Diagnosis may well be that you need to help, you need to support seniors, especially in health care, but the prescription you prescribe, and do not give God's treatment that you will implement, may prove fatal for the patient literally and figuratively. It was already mentioned in the speeches of my previous speakers about pre-election promises. We need to talk about this one more time here. Prime Minister Kopacz was talking about it. It's true, before the election, there were supposed to be taxes on hypermarkets, and the proposal included taxes on family businesses, turnover tax. It was supposed to protect Polish land from foreigners, and there is equalisation of Polish farmers with foreigners. It was to be raised by CIT not since some 2017, but since the beginning of 2016. There was supposed to be a tax-free amount - we see the effects of action and determination on this matter. The aid was to be at least doubled and are at least delayed. There is a great deal of misconceptions that show up after the election campaign, and there was such clarity before the elections. In a moment, it will turn out that it is not the retirement age that is to be reduced, it is to be reduced. And that's how you're gonna explain it. That's what you said in the election campaign, but not everyone understood. You really doubt people - this is a big charge after four months - you don't trust people, you don't trust farmers, now seniors. Nor do you believe in the intelligence of Poles and that they will know what lessons to learn. We need to support a Polish pensioner, who not only expects care from the state, but also expects respect. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will make amendments. I've already talked about the one about the possibility for all doctors and nurses to write prescriptions that have the right to do so. We're going to bring this bill to include those who retire because it's the right thing to do, because that's when income changes. Such a larger group should be covered by this support, not since 75 years, but earlier. This is the realization of our election program for people in the third century, for seniors, for those whose income changes. And it is very important that we increase the funding of this programme. This year we propose that it be at least PLN 0.5 billion, but from next year it should be PLN 2.5 billion, not less than PLN 2.5 billion, really. In a range of your promises for a few hundred billion sacrifices, investing, because it's an investment in people of dignified age, 2.5 billion is at least advisable and is an expression of basic respect. The Polish People's Party, which is rationally approaching the project - we supported the 500+ programme, although you did not accept our very smart and good amendment: a zloty for zloty to make the income threshold more flexible - will continue to work on this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope to accept our amendments. We appreciate that you want to support seniors, but it must be done not only in such a way that you are presenting a bill which, on the one hand, does not meet their expectations and, on the other hand, does not guarantee the improvement of health care in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u220	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. Twenty-five people signed up for the questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Beat Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform, will be the first to speak. Question time - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The password was simple and very easy to read: free medicines for 75+ seniors. Now that we're working on a project, it turns out that not for all seniors, not for all seventy-five-year-olds, not for all diseases, not all medications, and not every doctor can prescribe these medications. And the latter is perhaps the greatest weakness of this law. Why not every doctor? Why do these older people, used to their doctors, want to chase from one clinic to another? The Minister said this is a way to shorten the queues. Ladies and gentlemen, congratulations on the idea of starting with 70-year-olds. I'm a doctor, and I agree that you have to change the system to shorten the queues. We have a problem here, we all know that, but to start this reform by making a seventy-five-year-old run first to a dermatologist, a diabetesologist, a cardiologist, and then just going back to P.O.P., it's a completely unnecessary and completely unheard-of idea. Therefore, my question, Minister, is clear: Is it a good idea that only a family doctor and a nurse who is in POZ can write such medications? We talked about geriatrics on the committee, we talked about night medical attention, we talked about specialists. We ask you to verify this idea. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u222	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A good change in the direction of ill pensioners is a few gold increases, an average of 34 gr per day. This gives less than 10 PLN per month of drug subsidies for each senior over 75 years of age. We remember that during the election campaign it was ensured that the state would spend about PLN 500 million a year on free medicines for senior citizens. This year this amount is four times smaller. Not all medicines will be free, but only those that will be on a special list prepared by the Ministry of Health. There will be free prescription only medications and only those prescribed by the primary healthcare doctor. A specialist of these drugs will not prescribe, he will only prescribe the medicines paid. Hence my question: Is the government going to deliver on the electoral promises? Is this gonna happen next year, in two years' time, or is it ever gonna happen, or was talking about free medicines for seniors just a lying part of the election game? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u224	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very good that we are introducing free medicines for people over the age of 75, but we should also think about people in the age range from the beginning of retirement to the age of 75. They also receive low benefits and very often require treatment. This is especially the case for those who have worked hard physically. Many doubts are also raised by the so-called. correction mechanism. When the expenditure limit is reached, the Minister of Health is to amend the list of medicines. How will this mechanism work? Does this not pose a risk to patients and will they be informed in advance? Will medicines particularly expensive or important for the treatment also be covered by the mechanism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u226	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the event of exceeding the limit for expenditure on reimbursed medical products, medicines, medical measures and foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses, the Minister responsible for Health shall be able to implement an adjustment mechanism to amend the list of medicinal products covered by the refund. What if the product covered by the refund for the chronically ill person is withdrawn from the refund list and the person concerned cannot function without the product, and especially if it cannot afford it? Such a situation will be detrimental to a large number of patients. Shouldn't the Act provide for a time limit within which the Minister responsible for Health would be required to inform about the possible withdrawal of further items covered by the refund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u228	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was very hoping that you would be Minister Radziwiłł, because as a family doctor with many years of practice, I think he would understand my question perfectly, without insulting Minister Łanda. On behalf of primary healthcare doctors, I ask once again the question I asked on the committee. How are you at the moment assessing the extent to which primary healthcare doctors will increase their visits and work? We know very well that today we do not have queues to Poz, but these will be additional visits, which will be, so to speak... The patient will have to be examined to get a prescription, so it can't be a written order from another specialist. Therefore, as if in some way we would deny the recommendations of specialists. And a vicious circle opens. Yesterday, on the committee, I heard from the Members of the Law and Justice that since they're writing prescriptions so far, they're going to write a little bit more, what difference does it make? This is a big difference because you still need to examine this patient, have time for him, substantively. Minister, please answer: How will the work for primary healthcare doctors increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u230	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Surprisingly, there is no Minister Radziwiłł, but in fact understandable, because it is impossible to answer substantively and logically the questions that are being asked here. How would you like to explain in substance and logic that 75+ patients will not be able to discharge a geriatric doctor? Because you forbid it. I would ask for any logic in this matter. The Minister tried to explain yesterday on the committee that geriatrics would not be able to write prescriptions because there are not enough of them. Logic difficult to understand, and I'm not surprised to see Minister Radziwill not come here because he has to defend what he actually wrote and what is undefensible. Because if you want to explain to a patient who's 75, 77, 78, 82, 85... [[Voice from the room: 100.]] ...that if this patient gets sick at hours. 18.10. It's to get the drug free of charge... [[Voice from the room: It'll come tomorrow or Monday.]] ...will he have to come back the next day, again in the morning to see the doctor to get that drug that the doctor wrote him in the night care? How are you going to explain this logically to people, so they understand, appreciate your good change and your suggestions? What's the logic that a patient who walks away from a cardiologist and is 77 needs to take a bus, a tram, a subway, I don't know, to his family doctor to get... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I don't know, maybe you drive a maybach... [[No.]] ...because I don't think that Polish pensioners drive maybachs, and some of your friends do. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So gently with the comments. If you want to explain to these people that they have to go to the family doctor, explain to him what the specialist doctor wrote to them, and ask the family doctor to prescribe the medication. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a specialty where he's not a specialist? I am not surprised by Minister Radziwiłł - the situation is unexplainable and a good change in the fact that the geriatric doctor will not be able to help seniors is really an unexplainable concept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u232	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u233	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a very good bill. People over the age of 75 are our moms, our dads, our grandparents, who are the reason we're here. I think we just need to support them. Often, they spend a large part of their income buying drugs or opting out of the prescription. That's why I think it's a good project. I wanted to ask: Is it intended to facilitate communication between a specialist doctor and a family doctor, so that there is some communication, information about where and what has been prescribed to the patient, etc.? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u234	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a tip-top just in the right direction, because of course helping people over 75 years of age is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, the amount allocated for this seems far too small and probably difficult to draw from the budget. I have a question for the Minister, because it's like the clou of the case is what's on this mysterious list. I'm afraid there's going to be a huge group of 75+ people who won't even get that 50 gr per proverbial bun, because it all depends on what medications are on this list. People after 75 years of age most often, unfortunately, have a whole panel of diseases and the average pensioner spends on medicines 200 Often it is that some pensioners do not have enough money for just this proverbial bun, hence this small step forward is of course very beneficial, because the pensioner will need every penny, but it would be good to help those whose existence threatens spending on treatment. Is this provided for in this letter that you are creating? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u236	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am not a member of the Health Committee and I do not know what Minister Radziwiłł said, but I know for a fact that during the whole campaign there was talk about that not all medicines, just the selected list of medicines. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it was a fact. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: Wizard.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment it turns out that you would all like, at least part of this side of the room, to give everyone free of charge all medicines. No, the campaign looked a little different. [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: You wanted to give, then carry on.]] Yes, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, I was standing behind the first table at the pharmacy by October, and I saw these shivering hands of patients standing in line, wondering how to get that bill out of that wallet. And these people appreciate best what we do for this social group. I therefore ask the Minister: Isn't it this social group that is the most needy group that needs to be helped in the first place? Is it true that the system that is currently functioning is not yet perfect enough to entrust this discharge to a group of first contact doctors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u238	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Hok, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I'm a member. The Health Committee, I'm a doctor, I know the diseases, I know the patients, their troubles and their ailments. Once again, I wanted to appeal to the Minister for the prescription of all doctors. We've talked about this many times. And yesterday, and today, the same appeal is repeated. It can't just be a family doctor. By making life difficult for this old man, this is his fate... Today it can be done by a geriatra or a specialist who is aware of drug interactions. After all, these medicines must be prescribed by someone who knows perfectly well and pharmacology, and the response of patients to very different medicines: diabetes, cardiology, rheumatology, neurological, because most of them take such medicines. And if you have a family doctor, I also know perfectly well, Minister, that in order for a family doctor to prescribe a prescription prescribed by a specialist, you must have in writing a statement from a specialist doctor, which is an important year, concerning illness, diagnosis, diagnosis, further treatment, which medications, at what dose, and must follow. If he doesn't comply, he'll be punished by the National Health Fund either by breaking a contract or by a financial penalty. But the things you said about not everything, and perhaps not for all pensioners, are as if they were in line with the Minister's statement, which last September, last year, Minister, gave an interview in which he was asked for free medicines for seniors. What did you say? - It's a slogan and nothing else. Personally, I would prefer that politicians announce shortening the queues to witness. It's more important than giving up drugs for free or for a dollar. Another quote: First of all, let us give them access to a doctor who could prescribe these medicines. Well, Mr. Minister, it's happened so radically. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did you change your approach to this idea, which in September, the 23rd, was completely different from what you said? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u240	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jarosław Krajewski, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A man is surprised that so many words fall, that what was said is no longer said, so that I address teachers, teach children so, come to my lesson, you will have sixes, and I will teach you nothing. [[Applause, joy in the hall]] [[Member Beat Małecka-Libera: What?]] [[We're talking about drugs.]] Sorry, yeah, buddy... Why are you limiting the possibility of rewriting so-called. Free medications only for primary health care doctors, and you don't give that opportunity to specialists? Is this a deliberate act, like my predecessors... Please come to me on a case-by-case basis, don't say that specialists can write prescriptions, too. Please comment on the words of the Deputy Minister of Health regarding Polish patients: Not all these medicines will be included on the S list, because some are characterized by extremely high moral gambling and risk of abuse on the part of healthcare providers. What kind of patients were you begging to speak to the Minister about? Minister, I'm just finishing up. I hear it's a very good bill, so come over here and say it's a very good bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u242	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u243	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The direction is good, but as in geometry, the phrase is opposite, [[Applause]] because such a law is needed and we as the Polish People's Party have also proposed, we have a good proposal, in the election campaign we talked about it, but these were completely different solutions, these were solutions that were really meant to serve people, those who were expecting such support. Today I would ask the Minister to come here from this bleacher, it sounded, not in writing, because in writing, I'm gonna get... [[Six months.]] ...to the safe deposit box and it'll be lying there, I'll read it later, and that knowledge will slip away, but to those voters who are waiting for free medications because these people believe they'll have free medications. They're waiting for free meds. It was said here that on average it is 150 PLN per month. [[15 zł.]] They're counting on the 150 zł... [[15 zł.]] The average senior at the moment leaves 150 zł for drugs at the pharmacy. [[He'll leave it, okay. I thought they were paying extra.]] Prime Minister, he's saving it for drugs, and people think that 150 zlotys are gonna be left in their wallet. On the other hand, the Minister should at the moment tell the voters to make a mistake, how much they will actually benefit from free medicines, because this is important and important. Because we politicians can argue here, people may not believe us, but the minister will believe it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you should pass it on to the voters. Second thing. Why 75 years? After all, there are people around us who spend much more than 150 PLN per month on drugs at a much lower age. These are people who are chronically ill, these are people who [[♪ The bell ♪]] For many, many years they have had to use these drugs, and it has been for the last days of their lives. Don't they deserve that kind of support? And I'm assuming they're walking away a lot from the pharmacy window because they can't afford to buy drugs like this. I would ask you, Minister, for an answer from this bleacher. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u244	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u245	Dear Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, Care for seniors is a top priority for the rule of law and justice. As is well known, people over 75 years of age in Poland are about 3 million and most of them suffer from various diseases. People over the age of 75 spend an average of PLN 200.300 on medicines, which in many cases is a very heavy burden on the household budget. [[It's true.]] In other cases, the implementation of prescriptions, combined with compulsory expenditure on rent, the media, causes that most of the monthly income is spent on medicines at the expense of first-needed items. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that people aged 75 do not in most cases have the possibility, mainly because of their health condition, to obtain additional income, which forces them to look for savings at the expense of their own health. I therefore support the introduction as soon as possible of a free drug scheme for people over 75 years of age and I would like to thank the Ministry of Health for this bill. The Polish country covered... The government of Law and Justice took care of Polish families with children, now is the time for seniors. [[Which ones?]] All of them. [[All of them.]] Because our government is making electoral promises to all those over the age of 75, because health is the most important thing. [[Applause]] It's unappreciable. [[Very nice, sir. Very nice.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u246	I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u247	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Seniors are the social group that needs special support. Unfortunately, this particular support does not seem to be experienced by the parliamentary majority and by the Government of Law and Justice. Your hands were raised when you voted against raising the amount for a free program of medicines for seniors. You saved PLN 125 million for the group of 3 million seniors 75+. On the same day in the Committee on Public Finance, you manually wrote an amendment on 20 million for one of the private schools in Toruń. 3 million seniors - 125 million, one private school - 20 million. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] That's how you respect Polish seniors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This project is an absolute dummy of electoral promises, it's an illusion. You can say very specifically: It is a grim joke. You want to check out the election program or the slogan from the election program through these bad solutions. These solutions are bad because they are hostile to the elderly. You force these solutions on the group of the most ill, the group of the most independent people to set up in the next queues. [[A walk from doctor to doctor.]] It's not a marathon, it's just gonna be a marathon that's not gonna happen to a lot of people. Why group 75+? Why this group alone? Do you know what the average life expectancy of men in this country is? 73 years old. [[Voice from the hall: In our country.]] If we were building our proposals for this age group, for example in the Law on Free Legal Assistance, this was a 65-year criterion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: God.]] Change that, change your approach to extending a group of doctors entitled to write prescriptions for a group of specialists. You will make these solutions more senior-friendly. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: What about retirement age?]] Why, have you changed yet? [[The voice from the room: You changed, you knocked women down for seven years.]] [[But you're back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u248	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs.Joseph Rat-Iron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The legal act is in line with the expectations of our seniors. Yes, this bill is very expected. Until now, no government has gone this far against the elderly and the sick. Therefore, the words of the Members of the opposition about this bill, that lying, giving away money, cheating society, are the height of hypocrisy and confirm the attitude of the previous authority towards the old and sick. I am asking the government and the rapporteur: What actions of the previous government led by Mrs Ewa Kopacz, the Minister of Health... [[And before that, the marshal.]] ...takes to help the elderly and the sick and reduce their expenses on medications? The opposition cares very much about the length of the queues. Then I have a question: Who introduced the obligation to obtain a referral to a dermatological, ophthalmological clinic, where among others. Seniors run to the family doctor after these referrals? Speaking of Mr Szczerby's comment on the care of seniors, I have a question, which is also here: Who raised the retirement age of people, residents of Poland and tells them to work almost to death? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u250	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform. [[There isn't.]] There is no Member. I invite Mrs. Joanna Kopcinska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to ask why you are misleading Poles. Have you taken note of the proposed bill, of the committee's report? It's clearly written here: 125 million since September this year. [[It's for 2016.]] In 2017, 564 300 will be paid less by Polish seniors, in 2018 - 643 300, in 2019. - over 700 333,000. Polish seniors will pay less. These are, ladies and gentlemen, facts, however you try to curse them. I would also like to say that it was kind of you to point out that all medicines are safe and effective. Only those that the patient is able to buy and take are effective. [[Applause]] And I would like to point out that Polish seniors cannot afford it. [[But for 13 zlotys, they'll buy them all out.]] I didn't interrupt you. I'm so sorry. Hence this good project, Minister of Health. Congratulations, because it's a very good project. [[13 PLN.]] And I would ask you not to mislead me. [[13 zł, Member.]] I also refer to Minister Macierewicz's statement, Mrs Macierewicz, to listen to the original statement, to make a full statement, and I ask him not to manipulate the statements that are in the media. [[You're the specialists in manipulation.]] I didn't interrupt you. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer you to the project. Please do not mislead Poles. As many millions as is recorded in this project, less will be paid by a Polish patient. He'll be healthier. [[And that's what the companies are gonna make.]] He's gonna be healthier because he's gonna be treated effectively because he's gonna have access to drugs... [[13 PLN.]] ... under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party I'm afraid he didn't. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[13 PLN.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u252	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u253	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I'm asking you three questions. Question one: How many people will be able to benefit from the 75+ drug scheme in the opinion of the applicants? Question two: Isn't the Minister afraid of severe paralysis in primary health care facilities, since specialist patients will come to family doctors only for a free prescription, which the specialist will not be able to issue to them? Please justify and convince the retirees that it is not in terms of health sports that they will run from a specialist doctor to a family doctor just to get a prescription. And third question: Why did the draft law not include draft implementing acts, including a draft notice on the list of medicines reimbursed? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u254	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal to you not to frighten senior citizens that this is a law that does not support people over 75 years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, data and calculations show that next year seniors should spend PLN 860 million. We have written down and guaranteed 564 million. There's so much money left in the seniors' pockets. Back in your day, it was zero. You didn't refund and support seniors, so don't criticize us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What nonsense are you talking about? What nonsense are you talking about? That's not true. You have no idea.]] Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u256	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u257	The Minister here has also asked us many questions. Minister, I wanted to say that the portal for the homeless cost 49 million. Was it consulted with homeless people, with people like that? Because you're talking about seniors here. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Corrected.]] Such funds were spent. If there was a better public finance economy then, today we could probably definitely support our seniors more. Minister, I have these two main questions. The implementation of the Act will include the issuing of further notices by the Minister of Health on the list of reimbursed medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. Tell me, Minister, how often will you verify this list and publish further notices and after what period do you plan to assess the effects of the regulation in order to evaluate the bill? And one more thing. After eight years, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, we have 300 geriatrics. As a result, the primary care doctor... [[You banned these prescriptions.]] Your primary healthcare doctor is your first contact doctor. [[Voice from the room: What does it bother you?]] And that's why in the health system... You also emphasized that the first contact doctor is the most important doctor in our system, you have always emphasized this, so you have introduced referrals to the dermatologist and to the ophthalmologist, so that the first contact doctor will decide whether this referral is necessary. Today we continue to do so. Your primary healthcare doctor will prescribe free medicines for people over 75 years of age. [[Applause]] [[And geriatrics don't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u258	Thank you very much, Member. In the mode of correcting Mr Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u259	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Regarding your statement, which is false, first of all, the Emp@tia portal is a portal that combines various services of social services, secondly, it has been designed... The first thought concerning this project, the use of European funds in this way - this decision was made under the leadership of Jarosław Kaczyński in 2007. It was supposed to cost over 100 million at the time. [[Applause]] We have come down in the use of European funds, this is the first issue. The second point, today you use the Emp@tia portal in the 500+ program, because you advertise on your websites to fill out requests for 500 PLN through the Emp@tia portal. So, is this a bad project? A bad project was proposed by the government of Jarosław Kaczyński? [[Voice from the room: It's not right.]] The wrong project we have implemented and the wrong project is now being used for the 500+ program? You're getting lost, really. [[Applause]] Don't repeat the haters, don't repeat the haters. [[The Supreme Control Board is leading...]] And the third point, Mrs President, is that consultation is a mandatory issue. All laws should be consulted. I understand that at the first stage of your governments you did not have time to send laws even to the Social Dialogue Council, which we have set up together. You filed the bill at 8:00 p.m., and he was already voted out at 8:00 a.m., so the Social Dialogue Council didn't have time to consult between 1:00 and 2:00 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But there were reservations about the Supreme Board of Control.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u261	Thank you very much, Marshal. For starters, I have a question for the Minister because you will be responsible for creating a list of medicines for seniors. Since the criteria for entering on this list are none, it will be drugs from the list of medicines refunded, but what criteria for choosing this, not this - without any criteria, we do not know. Lack of transparency when deciding whether to list or, if no money is available, to exclude from this list, such discretion. I think Minister Radziwiłł said that the CBA would watch and have an anti-corruption shield. You'll answer. Interesting thing about today. The Bible, p. Standard operating procedures concerning contacts with Deputy Minister Krzysztof Łanda. And so now: do not occupy the Vice Minister for more than 15 minutes, do not write long e-mails, do not print documents bilaterally, in case of handwriting, carrying large emotional loads, to begin with and finally to write something soft, expressing empathy. Then: do not set up meetings on individual medicines, medical devices or small-scale cases, these patents should be addressed to directors and chiefs, only meetings on systemic issues of a general nature should be set up. I wonder if it'll also matter how you make a list of medicines for seniors. I'm very curious. It was also interesting to see your explanation in the Health Committee about the fact that only a specialist. I think it's wrong. The Minister said that the patient would refer himself to the doctor of the POZ and that it was used to shorten the queues to the specialist. Yeah, 70-year-old plus goes to a specialist, but he can't discharge the drug, so he has to go back to the doctor of P.O.P., because that's what the minister wants. I mean, you want older people not to go to [[♪ The bell ♪]] a specialist because he can't discharge a free drug. I must say, the situation is very difficult. But at the end, one sentence. Minister Radziwiłł said one sentence, which I think is crucial because I believe you have deceived patients. The Minister said, "No one has guaranteed all medicines ever." Promise - promise, and after the election promise - never. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u262	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as geriatrics are concerned, it is known that there are fewer in Poland at the moment than in the first half of the 1980s. But let's move on to the drug issue now. I wanted to ask the Minister, firstly: Is it envisaged to include in the IT system the possibility of communicating between specialists ordering specific medicines and a primary healthcare doctor to improve this process of agreeing and prescribing prescriptions? And the second question is, do you consider the possibility of correcting this list when it turns out that we have higher budget revenues, in such a way that medical assistance for older people is more effective? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I do not know what to link your speech to from the Civic Platform. Is that another leak? After all, leaks are your specialty. I would like to say that, unlike you, the promises made in the exposition by Prime Minister Beata Szydło are being realized. And the fact is, and the Polish society sees that you have never leaned on the needs of Polish seniors in such a way. I would like to thank Prime Minister Beacie Szydło and the Ministry of Health with Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł at the head for leaning over the needs of Polish seniors, for preparing a bill on free medicines for people over 75 years of age. This is a very necessary solution, seniors have waited a long time for them, especially those who were forced to leave the pharmacy window without buying drugs, giving up buying often basic medicines for them, because they had to choose: either caring for their health and medicine, or buying foodstuffs, food, or paying basic bills. I would stress that there have been no such solutions as what we are proposing so far. From the reply of Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł at the meetings of the Joint Committee on Senior Policy and Health, we know that the bill can also bring additional positive solutions. One of these may be a reduction in the incidence of drug polypragma. The Act brings obvious benefits to seniors, above all improving health - they will no longer have dilemmas or medicines or food or basic fees - and if they improve their health, then they will also have to improve their quality of life. It's out of the question. I would like to ask the Minister: What will be the economic impact of this bill and whether it will be positive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u266	Thank you very much, Member. [[In corrigendum mode.]] [[There's no name for any of the parliamentarians, so...]] [[But you spoke to me.]] [[Your marshal, I...]] But why don't you let me drive, okay? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Of course, I...]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[In corrigendum mode.]] I invite Mr Jarosław Krajewski to the podium. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to data from the Central Statistical Office in Poland, more than 2.5 million people over the age of 75 live, while in 2015 - according to the same data of the Central Statistical Office - the average monthly pension was about 2 000. gross zloty. This means, of course, that many seniors who take the most medicines from all age groups cannot afford to fully implement prescriptions issued by doctors. According to an estimate of 17% patients of this age are not taking all the necessary medicines for economic reasons. The programme indicated by Law and Justice during the election campaign, promised to Poles as our guarantee under the Law and Justice programme, is being implemented today. It is implemented in 100%... [[But what's 100%?]] ...and today we are on the last straight line before this is implemented by the vote of the High House. Well, this program is a fulfillment of the word given to Poles. I understand that as Members of the Civic Platform, it hurts that no one has ever presented such a good support programme for seniors... [[And running from doctor to doctor.]] ...but I would like to point out that this is a programme that will undoubtedly contribute to improving the health of people over the age of 75. [[Because they're going from doctor to doctor, right?]] I therefore ask the Minister to answer the question: How does the Ministry of Health intend to monitor the implementation of the 75+ programme? I hope that, as parliamentarians, we will also receive information about what it will look like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] monitoring the effectiveness of this system. But I am convinced that this is a very good programme and deserves to be supported not only by Members of the Law and Justice, but also by other parliamentarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But at least you're smiling. It's a rare sight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u268	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Radziszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u269	Thank you very much, Marshal. I see you're leaving. The Member misunderstood my statement. They have nothing to do with what I said, no leaks. Journalists have reached the official letter, and what appears in ministries is an official and public document. Therefore, journalists reached this document, which Minister Łanda issued as guidelines for the conduct of officials in the Ministry of Health. In the history of this resort, this modern one, for 26 years, no minister or deputy minister or director has come up with such an idea to write and publish such guidelines. I particularly like this about the empathetic beginning and ending of the handwriting to the Minister. But according to these guidelines... An official from your ministry, under your authority, did not comply with them because journalists tried to arrange a meeting with you, 15 minutes, unfortunately failed, so the guidelines did not work. But I am very pleased that the PiS Members are asking questions about how this bill will increase economic development, how it will reduce queues to specialist doctors. Besides, honourable Member, if you are talking about the fact that pensioners, these 75+s, spend over 800 million PLN per year on medicines - yes, when it comes to medicines refunded, because they spend much more, 2.5 billion PLN out of their own pocket. How does 125 million zlotys fit into this? That means you don't understand what we're talking about. This list of medicines in accordance with this law will not be monitored, sir, because there is no provision in the law that would allow some substantive assessment of the presence of medicines on this list, absence. We haven't been able to get it in the Health Committee. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Answers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u270	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u271	... according to which criteria medications will be introduced and brought out, as within a year there will be no money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u272	Thank you. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are three problems in this bill. In other words, this bill has a good title and he is the hope for seniors. There are three problems, none are solved. The first is the age of 75 years - very late. The second is the list. Ladies and gentlemen, if every Member insists that this is the implementation of the electoral programme, then in the PiS electoral programme there is first and foremost a consultation, a question of people. And did you ask people if this list... If he doesn't have a list, who actually decides what drugs are needed? Have there been studies, which drugs are most often needed by seventy-five-year-olds, and will these medicines be? I'm asking for an answer. There is no answer so far, which is a problem unsolved. Finally, the third problem is the question of queues. Here, let me have some advice for Minister Radziwiłłła. There are few geriatrics, but see: if the Ministry does not suspend the implementation of the physiotherapists Act, it will already be 15,000 in May. Rehabilitation doctors, who will easily be retrained into the necessary geriatric doctors. Isn't it? So don't answer - I'm sorry, I'm reluctant to use that word - insolent that there are no doctors. If you prepare a bill, you prepare for the elderly, because at the age of 75, and the sick, because they buy medicines, well, by God's Father, you can't send them back from doctor to doctor, because it's indecent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u274	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Andżelika Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u275	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that, as we listen to the arguments of the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, these arguments are absolutely right, but not with regard to this project, because this project for now, Minister, is a ghost project. Today we do not know anything about anything, only that out of almost 500 million, which was guaranteed at the beginning of December, 125 million is spent on medicines - it is not known for which disease it is intended, and it is not known for which medicines. Today parliamentarians know nothing as part of the bill procession, and even less so do seniors who ask about it because they have the right. They have no right to be deceived. They have the right to know and implement what they voted for on 25 October because they trusted you. I hear: raising the quality of life. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last 7 years, we have arrived from 1.5 thousand. Up to 5,000. - persons over 100 years of age. I can already see an improvement in the quality of life of a 100-year-old person who has left the hospital, cannot complete a prescription for a free drug, is sent to a family doctor, but the family doctor passes this person under the care of a specialist, the specialist still cannot write a free prescription and sends it to a family doctor. I congratulate you on solving the problem of the elderly and the sick. It's a really great project. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if this project comes out in this final form, it will be the biggest political and electoral fraud, not against citizens, against all citizens, those weakest, those faithful, those who have great confidence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this is extremely important. What diseases, what medications, why not specialists? These are the basic elements that the states are obliged to do, because older people need respect, and this respect is your responsibility to guarantee it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u276	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u277	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you specific questions. Firstly, do you think that the proposed changes will reduce the queues that are in the POZ, or increase them, or make the situation worse for those who need immediate medical advice or improve it? I ask in the context of the fact that recently a POZ doctor can write prescriptions for the future in the case of chronic diseases, and we all remember that the change was intended to limit queues for those in need of medical advice. Second question: On what basis does the Ministry believe that the doctors of POZs should be burdened with work? Do you think that increasing the burden for doctors who already receive 70 people and more every day will improve the quality of diagnosis and advice? In the light of the current regulations, your doctor may prescribe any medicine according to the refund, all doctors may prescribe all medicines. Is it legal to cede this only on POZs? Another question. Until now, some medications in chronic diseases have only been prescribed by specialists for obvious reasons. Now the sick will have to go to POZ. And after all, the eye of the layman, because I'm not a doctor, the dosage can change, drugs can fall out of the market, maybe they're not in the pharmacy, maybe a thousand things can happen that make it impossible to buy. What's going on in this situation? Will the sick go from Annas to Caiaphas, from the doctor of Poz to the specialist and back? Where is the patient's health, his comfort, his dignity? Is this even a normal idea, Minister? Finally, a rescue wheel for a government that wants to talk. Have you analysed how many POZ doctors are missing in Poland and whether the implementation of the change in the proposed wording will cause them to be missing even more? And is it not better to withdraw from some of the provisions or extend them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u278	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! These questions are very many, time is limited, but I will try to face this task, starting with the most important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the government envisages a significant relief from the burden of elderly patients, seniors, those over 75 years of age with a very high amount compared to what patients today spend on reimbursed medicines. Well, I would remind you that patients over 75 years of age today pay extra for medicines refunded by PLN 860 million. If, for every 12 months following the start of the programme, the government has allocated PLN 500 million and more, this is a very important relief for the elderly in terms of their treatment aid. Here were health ministers who certainly know that the most important medicines for the preservation of the health and life of insured people, Polish citizens, are on the list of reimbursed medicines. You have raised the question of the criteria that we will follow when drawing up a list of medicines to be reimbursed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these criteria are very clear. And these are not only those criteria that are presented here in the draft law, but these are also criteria that apply to the entire list of medicines reimbursed. The S-list of medicines for the senior, ladies and gentlemen, will include medicines that are already on the list of medicines refunded. [[That's right.]] Therefore, only a question arises which of these medicines on the refunded lists will be included in the notice, on the list S. [[And which ones?]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, it can't be that way, and it didn't happen that when you voted here or carried out the reimbursement bill, you also didn't give a detailed list of the refunded medicines that would be available after the law was introduced. You are introducing a mechanism in accordance with the Transparency Directive and certain criteria. This is also the case with the S-list, which in no way deviates from what the Transparency Directive requires of us. The criteria that will guide us in creating the notice and list S are the following additional criteria. First of all, it is about meeting the health needs of recipients who are over 75 years of age. So this is about diseases that are attributed to old age. Not all medicines that are refunded are used in the elderly. Another criterion, please countries, is the availability and safety of medicines, foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses and medical devices. Well, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the Prime Minister is wrong to say that the effectiveness of all medicines, and in particular of medicines reimbursed, is identical in any subpopulation dependent on age. Well, ladies and gentlemen, some medications... [[Corrigendum.]] No, I have clearly written down what the Prime Minister said, and therefore I inform you that some medicines have a completely different effectiveness and a different safety profile depending on age. [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]] Therefore, this criterion is as reasonable and justified as possible. Another thing is to take into account the annual expenditure limit foreseen for this purpose in the Budget Act for a given year after the amendment, which clarifies what is going on. I think it's clear here that the public payer's interests will be taken into account. And there was another criterion: this is the ratio of costs to the health effects of the medicine, the food for particular nutritional uses and the medical device compared to the ratio of costs to the health effects of medicines, foods for special nutritional uses and medical devices already covered by this list. And that is the criterion, ladies and gentlemen, the utility of costs, cost efficiency. In general, the cost-to-health ratio, which absolutely allows us to keep under control and justify every entry on the list of medicines for the senior, both the entry with the rest of the medicines for the senior, and the removal of these medicines, if there were actually budget overruns, in accordance with the prudential rule. Here we will be able to calculate the cost-to-effect ratio at any time. It is known that those medicines that were previously on the S-list, which have the worst relationship, possibly if necessary to correct that list, will first be removed from that list with full justification, under full control. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, another point is that we have a plan to make the list of medicines for seniors, as well as all other lists, as you know very well, a living tool. The content of these lists will, of course, change over time. The precautionary rule tells us to start safely. Never before, when answering any of the questions about previous governments, there was such a programme for seniors, especially for seniors and seniors, which was so stressful when it comes to their home budgets. On the other hand, we must, of course, approach this, in accordance with the prudential rule, in a narrow way first, providing for what medicines will first be on the first notice, and then relatively with the increase in the cost of operating this programme, this list will be expanded. However, if we fail to predict all the phenomena that are related to this completely new list, of course we will respond adequately, then we will reduce the scope of these medicines. If this money is more than what was in one of the questions, we will immediately extend this list by further positions, so as to relieve as much as possible older patients. And, ladies and gentlemen, if we have to narrow it down, it is above all a criterion, but also another criterion, because all these criteria should be considered together, it ensures full control over the content of this list. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is, why are we talking about seniors, why is this 75+? Well, ladies and gentlemen, as the government has repeatedly stressed, we need to start somewhere. These are people who in most cases are absolutely in the most difficult financial situation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first step. Of course, as was mentioned, the government is also conducting other activities at the moment, aimed at other age groups, other social groups. However, here, as regards healthcare, the first step will be to cover the refund of medicines that seniors need most. Ladies and gentlemen, on the list of medications... Indeed, this is what Mr Szczerba was talking about here, and the seniors spend about PLN 200.300 per month. But, ladies and gentlemen, they usually spend most of their money on drugs that aren't the most important thing for these seniors. These are medicines that are not included in the list of medicines reimbursed, because according to the Refund Act you have introduced, they do not meet the criteria related to effectiveness, safety, relevance to the health and life of patients and are potentially not simply cost-effective. The cost of getting an effect with these drugs is sometimes even cosmic. I'm talking about drugs here, especially those drugs that are weak interventions or technologies that are ineffective. That's why these drugs... It is not the role of the state to relieve the burden of sick or even healthy people who want to treat medicines that are ineffective or whose cost of achieving a health effect is horrendously high. There's no need for that. The State should focus on providing seniors with access to those medicines that have the best cost/effect ratio and which are the most effective therapeutic options. The first site is that these drugs were included in the list of medicines refunded, while the second site were those criteria I read to you. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we want to start with these drugs, not those that are the most expensive. We want to start with the ones that have the biggest payment. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna start with the drugs that are on the list of 50 medications. - and a 30% fee, but not only. We also have enough resources to include, in addition to those drugs that we catch, which are the most important, in accordance with these criteria, for seniors, certain medicines that are actually in the limit with a lump sum fee, if that is really important in terms of their access to seniors. Now the question was that not only the poorest will have to, they will... [[That's what they used to do.]] ...have limited this right, it will only be for the poorest. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the constitution is very clear, Art. 68, that this is about all seniors, not just the richest or poorest seniors. The Constitution does not differentiate between Poles in this respect. It seems to me that in one way or another, elderly people, just 75+, are often in this state of health, which really often reduces, have many different types of loss. Ladies and gentlemen, they should all be entitled to social solidarity and to the opportunities offered by the State without further differentiation. Besides, I don't know on the basis of what: whether you own a property or a pension? These are problems, ladies and gentlemen, which... You know very well that the introduction of such a verification system would cost more than costs... [[Social Services already checked it out.]] ...which would be refunded to a few sick, well-remunerated people who can actually meet the tasks of their own treatment and problems with drug subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Konstanty Radziwiłł said very clearly that there will be free medicines for seniors, but those that are most important, and that is what I have already said, because of the criteria that are valid for all lists of medicines reimbursed, and here in particular for list S. And indeed, if someone thought that all drugs would be refunded, then I think he had some irrational expectations. [[The Prime Minister will be pleased to hear that.]] You are well aware that health care and even medicines alone can be spent on the entire state budget, and this money will certainly not be enough. Ladies and gentlemen, this needs to be done rationally and seniors need to be relieved of the most important medicines, which are included in the lists of medicines refunded. Ladies and gentlemen, this is someone quoting my statement from September last year. If we had not introduced those mechanisms which are proposed here, I would also have opposed these changes to be implemented broadly, without any control mechanisms. The most important control mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, here, in this bill, is the prescription of medicines by a primary healthcare doctor and a primary healthcare nurse, because we do not have an IT system. It has not been possible to put in place such a system in recent years. Hundreds of millions of zlotys have been spent, there is no such system, and I will say otherwise, it is in a terrible state, even part of this IT system simply cannot be saved. As long as there's no such system, we can't set up a drug refund system for a senior without any control. Therefore, we need to introduce a restriction, although we would very much like, of course, for any doctor to prescribe medicines for the senior, but we cannot do so because you have failed to introduce an IT system that would ensure control of the medical prescription and give you the opportunity to monitor on an ongoing basis what medication the patient is receiving. Not control, as it has been claimed here, and posteriori, after a while and with very poor, limited control capabilities of the National Health Fund, but control, which provides prescription control in a single patient. That is, if, in fact, with an IT card or in any other way in the IT system, it could be monitored permanently, whether there is polypragma, whether there is an interaction of medicines, whether there are actually side effects, whether there is an overdose of these medicines, whether the patient buys them at all and who prescribes them, who is responsible for coordinating this treatment, if such an IT system exists today, there would be no problem. You could introduce more specialist doctors and give them the authority to prescribe these drugs. [[And what did Minister Radziwiłł say?]] Because there is no such system, it is not possible at this moment to demonstrate extreme mismanagement and to let this system go completely without any control. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken your attention to the subcommittee meeting and I guarantee you that if only such an IT system can be activated, and soon it will not be, answering another question, unfortunately, because in such a terrible state is this IT system at the moment... [[And the expert Radziwiłł what did he say?]] ...then as soon as we get it running, I'm sure geriatric doctors will be the first specialty we'll consider to extend these powers to prescribe medications for seniors. [[Thanks.]] Another thing is Christmas and night care. We cannot introduce here the possibility to prescribe medicines for the senior because, again, there is no IT system. This system is very poorly reported and there would be no control over expenditure. I now move on to the specific questions of the next Members. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan asked about the criteria. Of course, I have already mentioned these criteria, they are clear and transparent. I also told you that these are the criteria of this draft law, as well as those that are valid for the whole list. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't say this project doesn't relieve seniors. On the contrary. If we of PLN 860 million a year reduce these subsidies to the refunded medicines by 500 million, then calling it small, I think, is not appropriate, and as I stress, this is just the beginning. This is the first step we're taking, you have to start somewhere. It seems to me that the indication of 75+ patients is absolutely justified. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska also asked about this amount and the burden of seniors. Of course, I agree that further programmes should also be prepared for pregnant women and children. We are thinking about it and I think that you will soon also see further draft laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member asked whether the health of the elderly would improve, whether the medicines would be free or not, and whether they would. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the health of these patients will be improved, because only medicines with proven efficacy and a good safety profile are included in the lists of refunded medicines. At least the ratio of this effectiveness, health benefits and risk of side effects is acceptable and good enough to pay for them and it is worth to refund these medicines. Therefore, since these technologies are technologies with proven clinical efficiency, I think the answer to the question is obvious. I would also like to thank you for the broad public consultation we have carried out. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, these consultations have been taken as seriously as possible by us, and I assure you that since then, external consultations will be taken seriously. We have accepted many comments that are reflected in this project. When it comes to queues - although here a few times said such words - today, ladies and gentlemen, there are no queues for primary health care doctors. But there are queues for specialist doctors, and it's huge. And you know what these queues are mostly about? Of course, there are a lot of reasons, but it also follows that we have not implemented a plan for a long time to change the burden of areas where medical care should be carried out. Our system is on its head. We have an inverted pyramid. The world is looking at us and it is really surprising that we have extremely extensive hospital care, terribly extensive specialist care and we have queues for hospitals and specialists. On the other hand, the primary healthcare doctor, who should be the pillar of this system, is the weakest link here. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is about directing - not only through this bill, but also through other tools - a stream of patients so that they remain with a doctor of the POZ, who is close to them, who knows them best and who should lead them for many years, so that he really knows each individual patient, often by name, and not that the patient has to wait for months for another visit to a specialist doctor and spend many hours there. In many cases you can sign up for a specific hour, come to the doctor of POZ in a convenient way to get advice - there is no problem. However, ladies and gentlemen, in most cases we will no longer sign up for a certain hour to see a specialist's doctor. So the patients are standing there for hours. Now, if the patient stream moves towards POZ, I ask: Will it improve when it comes to the availability of specialists, will it get worse? In my opinion, the answer is obvious. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the POZ doctor should be a gatekeeper, he should be the coordinator of the patient in the system, this doctor should be coordinating What other doctors prescribe. Today, he has an insight into the patient's records, if he wants to. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the question arises as to whether this POZ doctor can actually coordinate the patient's treatment today. Well, he can't. Often in general, some patients, even though they are enrolled in a given POZ doctor, do not see him at all, but go from specialist to specialist. I'm sorry, but someone here has made an argument that patients want to be treated in a hospital, they want to be treated in specialist doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, patients are not doctors. Your doctor knows exactly what health benefits you can benefit from coordinated care, where your POZ doctor will conduct this coordination. Another question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed the moment we are working on changes, on a major revision of the refund bill, and, as I say, on the other hand, work is being done on improving the IT system. If this system is available, then it will be possible to extend the right to prescribe medicines. On the other hand, as far as this issue is concerned: the competence of doctors of POZ versus the competence of doctors of geriatrics, I think that someone like whom, but the doctor of POZ has the right competence to guide the elderly. [[And the geriatrics don't?]] I think so, too. [[Great.]] I repeat once again: when the IT system is ready, it will be the first group whose powers we will expand. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz rightly pointed out that this is also a social programme, but he wrongly pointed out that there are no implementing acts for it, because the draft is accompanied by a regulation which describes the financing of medicines and the mechanism for transferring funds from the Ministry of Health to the National Health Fund. I must say that this is one of the few examples of good legislative practices in recent years, which I think is worth highlighting. I've already told you about specific medications. Why only 75+? Because no one's gonna make it? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that there are over 3 million senior citizens in Poland aged 75+. [[Voice from the hall: And they will be in retirement.]] So the claim that, I quote, no one will, is, I think, completely unauthorized. Then another quote: No one, no senior, will give up a visit to a diabetesologist. Well, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I refer to the proposal to coordinate treatment in seniors. It is very bad that one of the same seniors treats many different specialists without any coordination. This coordination should be. This law responds to these expectations and to all the changes in the world that are taking place in this regard. I also suggest not to be afraid that there will be no specialized medicines, e.g. For dementia. Well, I don't know if there's gonna be dementia medication or not. We have probably already had this discussion within the committee. I don't think that's a special problem right now, as you all know. On the other hand, I refer once again to the criteria and I do not want to continue on this subject, because I think it is better that I do not continue to do so because, as I say, full reimbursement of certain medicines. [[So, what about empathy?]] Ladies and gentlemen... This is the end of my speech, I'm sorry? No, I think I still have time. If it's over, I won't be able to respond to a lot of your comments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u280	No, but answer the questions, Minister. [[Something empathetic now.]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Krzysztof Łanda: Well, if you'd like, you've brought it up, then go ahead. I am, of course, very pleased that this fact has been noticed, that we are improving management standards at the Ministry of Health. As you know, many international organisations, the best organizations in the world, use the so-called. SOP - standard operating procedures - standard procedures. This is particularly important for young workers who, coming to the Ministry, simply certain rules They don't know yet. If these rules are written, then of course Then they know what to do. However, each standard procedure concerns a specific event, omission or improper conduct of the worker. And now: you can't, no one can interpret one standard procedure or another without knowing the fact it's about. There are many different SOPs and others. Thanks to SOPs, we can prepare good legal acts, very good draft laws. [[Very good.]] And this is a law that is very well assessed by probably 94% of the population in the population study. Moreover, please note how many voters of the Civic Platform support this... [[What about BAS?]] I referred to the BAS issue in many points. I wouldn't want to now if there's no time... I'm not going to be referring to this right now. More of the most important things... Well, I, ladies and gentlemen, I'm done now that my time is up. I'm just gonna let you answer the other questions in writing. There were a lot of questions, so I'm sorry that not all of them... Of course, I will answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] [[Correction, first...]] In the mode of correcting Prime Minister Kopacz. Then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You misunderstood what I said about the effectiveness and safety of the drugs on the refund list. You know that when it comes to the list of medicines reimbursed, the safe and effective ones, because they have passed these procedures, the refund procedure and registration procedure, no one would allow dangerous or ineffective drugs to be placed on the market. Therefore, there are nearly 4,000 on this list. Refundable medicines. If you're pointing out the drugs that are in your notice, which are S-letters, let's call them, or the S-letters, that the only criterion for choosing these drugs will be effectiveness and safety, then I understand that $4,000. medicines on the list of medicines refunded will be on this list with the letter S. I meant something completely different. I understood you well, and I meant what criteria you'd use to choose from the $4,000. medicines that will be included in the notice, marked with the letter S. These criteria, apart from precisely effectiveness and safety, are not present. That is why I asked that every such announcement should also be accompanied by an argument - why these and not other medicines are included in this group. I just want to say one thing - you know this very well, because such research was done in the Ministry of Health - today all those who use the list of medicines reimbursed, especially people after 75 years of age, have used an average of about 40 packages per year and have paid 8 zlotys for each package. This is approx. 320 PLN per year. And you know very well that they pay extra and that they pay the bills, of course they do it in pharmacies, not at a gas station, as Minister Radziwiłł was trying to suggest. These are the amounts that they pay for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] dietary supplements, for medicines of 100 percent on payment. I got scared today when you said there'd be drugs on this list that the patient is paying the most to. What does that mean? That means these drugs will never be cheaper, Minister. The company will never be profitable to go down to a low price and get 15% The market to go out as the basis of the limit in a given therapeutic group, because you're giving it to them, putting it in the notice as medication for 75-year-olds. And besides, you're narrowing it down, you're narrowing it down. Hence my questions about criteria. These questions will not only be questions from politicians, they will also be questions from people who know each other... [[Time!]] ...and at the moment they're experts in the pharmaceutical market - why this, not another company, why this, not another drug. It's for your own safety that these criteria should be there.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u282	Thank you very much, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u283	And the last sentence. We do not deny your goodwill in this bill. [[Time, Marshal, time after all.]] That good bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u284	In fact, I am in the chair of this sitting, sir. The third person here is starting to conduct.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u285	If we are talking today about the fact that this is a very good change for pensioners and pensioners after 75 years of age, then I want to tell you that we have no regrets that you have introduced, perhaps minimal, help for those who need this help, only that you have deceived them - people after 75 years of age.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u286	Prime Minister, please stop right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u287	You said they'd have free meds. That's what the Prime Minister said...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u288	Prime Minister, but this was supposed to be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u289	...who said, "I've come and brought here a bill that relieves seniors of their medical fees."
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u290	Prime Minister, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u291	You cheated, and that's what we resent. [[Someone's got a lead here. Excuse me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u292	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u293	That's all we have against you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u294	Thank you very much. I invite the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna go back to my reaction for a second. I just think that certain rules should apply to a time which...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u296	But all the Members who have been out of time today... I have not limited anyone's time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u297	Well, not necessarily...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u298	Today was a peaceful discussion and I would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u299	I'd like to, too, so I don't understand why you're yelling at me because I react very calmly. I assure you, in your previous term of office, you have reacted far more nervously if you have never - twice - allowed so much - exceeded time. And coming back... [[Mr President, I have always extended your time when I was a marshal, out of sympathy for you.]] I rarely had the chance to take advantage of this performance while you were sitting as a marshal. [[That's not good.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to refer to the questions that were addressed to me. These were two questions. One concerned the actions of the predecessors in relation to issues related to care and assistance for seniors. I must say that such projects were not presented during the previous term of office. We can, of course, discuss the complementarity of this project, which is now being presented. We can discuss this. Hence this very lively discussion in committee as well as here. But one thing can be said for sure: it is an innovative project, because the previous authority did not propose anything for this age group, nothing, zero zlotys, there was no proposal, no relief even in the selected section of the pharmaceutical sector. That's all there is to it. As for the second issue, regarding the publication of the list of medicines refunded and what you might find on this list, the answer here is very simple: if our predecessors were also familiar with the list of medicines refunded in advance six months or one year's time, then, I understand, they would always be published in such a way as to ensure that patients, doctors, pharmacists can adapt to the list of medicines refunded, so that there is no later situation that something new appears on the list or something on this list is deleted. Hence, it is obvious and understood that no one can present today what is on this letter with the letter S in September. On this subject you will be able to talk and such diwags will be conducted in August, and the final list will be known on 1 September. So much for me. I also wanted to thank all Members very much for, I think, but an interesting discussion. I have also learned a lot from it personally in terms of problems and various opportunities to look at these issues. We certainly differ in the assessment of many phenomena and facts, also related to this project, but this discussion was undoubtedly very interesting, at least for people who deal with health care on a daily basis. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. The last vote, as corrected, previously tabled, is the Member. But please follow the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! I always take time. Minister! You've charged here from this podium that without IT systems it can't be done, geriatrics can't write, professionals can't write, there's no system. I already told you to ask Minister Radziwiłł, because he has been an expert in IT systems for many years in the Ministry, so he should know all this well, best of all. But I would like to suggest to you that you read the regulation of the Minister of Health - I happen to have signed it - in 2011, which describes what your institution is running, as the Ministry of Health and what the NFZ knows about prescriptions. That's what the Minister of Health was talking about in the regulation, and it's worth knowing it because you're so hysterically saying you don't know anything about prescriptions and the system. He knows. You have a pharmacy ID, date, time of completion of the prescription, reception number, PESEL on the reception desk, prescription number, coupon number, code number of the medicine, refundable amount, wholesale price, retail price, number of packages issued. That's all you know, Minister. Maybe you don't know you know. It's all in the regulation, and you, as Minister, can have all that data on your desk. It'll be easier for you to run the department if you know it. I'm telling you. This should be improved and asked the NFZ. You're gonna have all the dilemmas that you've been describing so dramatically from this lecturer here. It's worth knowing, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u301	Thank you very much, sir. The Minister still wanted to speak on the matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief. I was the director of the Department of Drug Management at the National Health Fund headquarters and not only do I know what the possibilities for the fund to collect data, what data it collects, how it uses it and what its control capabilities are, but here the Member did not understand my statement at all. Of course, thank you very much for highlighting my abilities, I would say dramatic. I'm glad it's been appreciated. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I think that the Member is certainly not giving in to me. But going back to the point, I meant that there's no way that it could be done without an IT system that allows us to see what this patient is taking right now, right here and now. The point is that a doctor - whether a specialist or a POZ doctor - who is about to prescribe a prescription at the moment, also from the S list, especially from the S list, because these are medicines free, should at this point have information on what medication other doctors prescribed to this patient. There is absolutely no such possibility of a fund system. The IT system that was supposed to make it possible lies down. Once it's running, we'll change the rules. For now, it must be prescribed by a POZ doctor, because he is the only control over the validity of the prescription, and secondly, improves the coordination of care. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u303	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Thank you, Minister. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Senior Policy Committee and the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on a draft law on special arrangements for the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis in the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 (prints no. 332 and 354). I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on a draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. At its 14th meeting on 16 March 2016, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this proposal, asks the High House to adopt this proposal. I would like to say that as a result of the work carried out in the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, nine amendments were tabled to this draft. Of these nine amendments, seven amendments were accepted and two amendments were rejected. The most serious amendment relates to Article. 4 of this law, where, in a way, it seems appropriate to resolve the matter related to the overall organisation of World Youth Days and all these issues concerning the development of this and ensuring the order and security of the participants of the World Youth Days. In the original submission there was a formulation which, as if the main burden of this responsibility had been placed on the church site. In this case, the article also moves this part of this responsibility to the voivode, which, in agreement with the organizer of the World Youth Days, i.e. the archdiocese of Krakow, will prepare all these security documents. The next amendment and discussion concerned the article. 11. Here was the proposal to set a deadline for the voivodeship for all these medical security plans. We thought that since the bill had a uniform time to draw up all documents - this is such a limited time, 15 May - there is no need to enter this date here, because it could also complicate at a later stage the correction of these medical plans. Second or second amendment in Article. 15 also addressed the question of the deadline and referred to the issue of medical security. Finally, what has attracted great attention is the amendments related to the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. This is an important issue during the World Youth Days: communication issues and a provision that addresses issues related to the identification of roads recommended to participants in the World Youth Days. This will be available not only to the organiser, but also to all participants and to the media. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 24 we added points 4 and 5 which refer to the cost of transporting His Holiness Pope Francis from Poland to Rome. This amendment was accepted by adding points 4 and 5. Finally, in the article. 25, and this is a very important issue, issues have been settled regarding the Public Procurement Act and what concerns matters relating to the provision of services, the carrying out of works related to the organisation of World Youth Days and other purchases, so that the Public Procurement Act does not paralyze these purchases. Because it is easy to imagine that by applying the current thresholds relating to public procurement or deadlines, we would have had such a situation, for example. It would be difficult to make purchases of ambulances, because it would be an amount exceeding the value of 130 thousand. Euros. And finally, art. 29, in which we have also made a change. Namely, this concerns issues related to the installation by telecommunications operators, in connection with the organization of World Youth Days, in the city of Cracow and in all areas where the pope will be staying, temporary radio installations, various communication devices to improve communication among participants. The idea was not to obtain special permits for the installation of these temporary devices. And finally, art. 30, which states that the Minister for National Defence may, after consulting the competent voivodeship, provide support for the proper organisation of the World Youth Days in the areas of infrastructure, logistics, transport, communications, security and public order and medical and sanitary protection. These were the amendments that were accepted. An extensive discussion was also triggered by the article. Point 36 (3) which refers to purely - it would seem - technical, but concerns costs related to the drainage of the land on which the youth will reside. On a good note, we left time for second reading to also settle this issue at second reading. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u305	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Edward Siarka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Club of Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. The World Youth Days, as we discussed yesterday, as we discussed in the committee, will be one of the most important events that will take place this year in Poland. It is expected that during these celebrations which will take place in Czestochowa, in Oświęcim and mainly in Cracow, because there will be World Youth Days, as many as 3 million young people will participate in religious events. Therefore, in order to ensure their proper safety and conditions for meeting with the Pope, special legal solutions are presented to ensure the safety of participants of the World Youth Days. We discussed this issue, discussed how this safety and the conditions of young people can best be ensured. During this discussion, there were also doubts as to whether all these matters related to security and the organisation of the ceremony were resolved. Since there is a need to clarify a few more points, my club will therefore propose that four more amendments be adopted to this project. These amendments will relate to Article. 24, specifically in the mouth. 4. We want such an editorial change to be made, which will clarify to the end all financial issues related to the organisation of the transport of Pope Francis from the territory of Poland in the Italian Republic, so that there is no organisational and financial doubt as to how this matter is to be resolved, all the more so that it affects the issue of diplomatic protocol and it is important that we have clarity about the legal solutions of this issue and, by the way, be in line with the financial rules in force. We also propose an amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the The current text of the adopted project has twice referred to the health condition, but there is no relevant public policy rationale. The amendment concerns financial issues and public procurement issues. If we want to enable the voivodship to make purchases without all the rigours of the Public Procurement Act, it would be worthwhile for us to make amends to EU rules too, so that it does not turn out that later as a result of checks Whether it is the Supreme Audit Chamber or any other financial institution, the voivode has a problem with the justification on which he spent public funds in connection with this ceremony, and they are not small. The idea is that the voivodship should have all these financial issues clearly defined so that it can make these purchases with legal certainty. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 26 we propose another amendment. Here, as far as the construction of railway infrastructure is concerned, there was also a doubt that we should add road infrastructure to the railway infrastructure. Whoever was in Misericordiae Square, where these celebrations are to be held, knows that road infrastructure is generally built there, but it may be that there is still some small road investment to be made there. Therefore, in this article we also add road infrastructure if it turns out that it needs to be added so that it does not have to be so that additional building permits will have to be obtained that would be required in such a case. And finally, art. 31. We propose to amend the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that this article concerns not only detailed melioration devices, but also so-called. leaks that are also in this square and require regulation. Thank you very much, Marshal, and I would like to make amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present our position on the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016. I think the spiritual dimension of these celebrations is the most important thing for believers. Knowing what Pope Francis says and how individual parishes prepare for this event, I am calm about the effect of World Youth Days in this area. I think it's going to be a special event for us believers. However, for us, politicians, as well as for Polish citizens, it is also very important to see with which image of Poland and Poles guests, participants of World Youth Days, will return to their countries. I would like, I think, that every Pole would like this to remember Poland as a hospitable, modern, well developed and open country, so that they would like to return to our country many times later. I would also like everyone, regardless of where he is from and what color he has, to feel good about us, to feel that he is the most important guest during this unique event. I must say that I am pleased that, during the committee's work, some of the comments I made at first reading were accepted. These are, in particular, the assignment of this obligation of medical security and public order to the voivodeship, public procurement issues, but there are a number of things that have not yet been covered. Due to the nature of the work yesterday, we tabled only three amendments on behalf of our club. Today I'm going to make eight amendments. Two relate to the same aspects that Mr Sulphur spoke about. It so happens that one of these comments, concerning road infrastructure, was also discussed yesterday and was not accepted. This amendment is also part of the Civic Platform's package of amendments as well as the issue of melioration. It seems to us that it is unjustified to maintain the record which gives the possibility of downloading from land owners, those owners who for 1.5 years lent land free of charge to Campus Misericordiae, potential amounts to the state budget. That's the record, at least for the moment, in the government's submission. The other amendments concern Article. 2. We want to hear that the organizer is the Archdiocese of Krakow, added: or Conference of the Polish Episcopate. Because not the archdiocese of Krakow is the organizer of events in Częstochowa, on Jasna Góra, but the Polish Episcopate Conference. If we don't do this, this article is going to go against all the next records, it's just not true. We also postulate, and we will introduce it in the article. 9, where we're talking about overtime payments, and then again, in art. 31, to increase the remuneration by 25% in relation to the government submission. This is full-time work. I had the opportunity to participate in two pilgrimages and although we write in the bill that police staff, all services have the right to rest, they simply do not enjoy this right. These two or three key days are working on continuous rotations. I've been watching it. It seems to me that, as there are a number of night allowances, for work more than 48 hours, where this product is increased, this salary should also be increased by this symbolic 25%. We also work out the wording of the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 because we want full refund to be possible in the case of grants for rail transport. In the Act there is supposed to be the possibility of a full grant, and in the explanatory memorandum we have a limit of 80%. We would like to articulate this inconsistency in a very precise way. Finally, the last amendment we will be proposing. It was about that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yesterday on the committee, it seems to us that this record, which says that the Minister of National Defence, after consulting the voivodeship, may indicate or move the army to help with the organization of World Youth Days, should say that the Minister of National Defence at the request of the voivodship. Because since the voivode is in charge of preparing the plan, she is the host of the event, she coordinates all the work, and if it is necessary for the military to engage in the work, she should make an appropriate request. That would solve the problem. I hope, in the spirit of mercy, that today you will take a kind look at these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u309	Thank you very much, sir. [[I still have some adjustments for you.]] I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In connection with preparations for the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis and the organization of World Youth Days - Kraków 2016, a governmental draft law on special solutions related to the organisation of the above mentioned event was sent to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. visits and World Youth Days. This project defines, among others, principles of cooperation between public administrations, issues relating to the costs of carrying out specific tasks, transport organisation, medical care, escape routes, all such matters related to the organisation as large as we have heard, almost three million events related to the gathering of persons. It envisages, among others, the possibility for the Minister of National Defence to provide support, as was mentioned here and for which there is still a discussion on the amendment. This Minister of National Defense has... This actually applies to the scope of assistance in the performance of specific tasks by the subordinates, which can be provided by the organisers or voivodeships. The proposed law provides for a number of specific arrangements, including, for example, the granting of additional police powers in the field of the collection, processing of personal data about persons who pose a threat to security and public order, including those obtained and processed by other bodies and services, and those which are acquired as a result of the performance of operational and research activities. Special powers are also extended here to the Railway Guard, among others. in terms of the ability to record images and sound events in an area under its jurisdiction, and of course they are to be deleted after 30 days if no criminal offence has been recorded. All these specific rights shall be temporarily introduced and shall be extinguished at the end of the event. Given the risks involved in organising such a large event, including terrorist threats, it must, of course, be considered appropriate to deal with the specific design. At first reading, reservations were addressed to the draft law, which concerned some of its elements, including, inter alia, the lack of information on possible mechanisms for financing medical staff, the appropriateness of procedural simplifications, as well as on the construction of road infrastructure, the lack of regulation on traffic, etc. Most of these reservations were raised at the committee meeting and were in principle tabled in the framework of government amendments, plus amendments made by members of committees representing different Seym clubs. We can admit that we are satisfied with the amendments adopted, because they mostly regulate our reservations here, among others. the provision of Article has been corrected. The 4th Act, which included in the development of a safety plan during World Youth Days also the Voivodeship, was annexed to the BOR, laid down the principles on which the journey of His Holiness Pope Francis will be financed. As regards the recording of the article. 30 on the possibility for the Minister of Defence to provide assistance, this has also been extended to date. It was also ensured that there would be a possibility of a non-negotiable procedure, without the provision of tender or public procurement, to purchase ambulances or to make certain changes related to the construction of infrastructure. The only thing we would expect, I hope, today we will talk in this spirit, is to correct the article on the cost-bearing process. I hope, however, that the government side will agree to the amendment suggested yesterday by the Civic Platform, under which we sign as much as possible. In view of these corrections, it should be noted that the bill submitted on special arrangements for the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 contains [[♪ The bell ♪]] all necessary elements for the proper performance of the tasks related to the events. In view of this, the Kukiz Club15 will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. Good. I invite Mr. Mirosław Suchonia, the Modern Club. I'm so sorry, sir. This is the second time I've been somewhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u312	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club on the Act on Special Solutions related to the organisation of the visit of His Holiness Pope Francis to the Republic of Poland and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 from print no. 332 after the report of the committee in print No. 354. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be particularly revealing if I say that the visit of Pope Francis is an event of great importance to the whole state, regardless of where we are, how we look at it. This visit is multidimensional. On the one hand, it has a spiritual dimension, where a believing part of the people experience it so very spiritually. This is important to them because of their spirituality. On the other hand, it is also an important visit due to the prestige of the state. As a country we organize this visit, we participate in its organization, we host young people from all over the world. This is also a kind of distinction, especially since these are not the first World Youth Days that our country is experiencing, and for this reason also the title, it seems as appropriate that our country is taking part in this. Therefore, as a country, we must satisfy what our guests expect, and they expect that we will traditionally host them in such a way that they will be able to say that in Poland he is a guest in the house, God in the house. And that is why this law seems to be as rational as possible. This law has both a material, technical, infrastructure-related dimension. We are very pleased that, during committee meetings, all clubs worked very closely on this law, made amendments that improved the quality of this legislation. And here I have to say that we, too, are grateful to all the clubs for this work being done in such a consistent way. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act sets out detailed arrangements precisely for the organisation of security in the case of the financing of security-related tasks, infrastructure. This is really important, because these days that await us, these days in Krakow must pass under the slogan so that everything is carried out in the best possible way and just in such a way that it will also guarantee the safety of all participants of these events. Our reservations, as we have already discussed during committee meetings, concerned a number of issues. Some of them were resolved through amendments which were tabled during the committee meeting, but some of them still remained in the old wording. Here I would like to draw attention, first of all, to the issues relating to the printing to be used in the course of the assistance. We still have some time, which is why I would appeal to the government to think about these issues, because the prints that are today based on the provisions of the Act and which are to be applied do not exactly correspond to the conditions that will take place during these events. Secondly, the second point that we have raised is that it is possible to buy things that allow the event to be organised safely. And here I am happy to say that the applicants have come out to meet us. The law and justice have tabled amendments that will enable these events to be organised safely. We believe that this is crucial for these very celebrations. The third point, as my previous speakers have already said, is the question of payment for meliorative devices. I don't know if I understand this well, but, ladies and gentlemen, if you're taking some land from someone, you're making some adjustments on this land, and that's all in the interest of organizing an event, in which even this owner doesn't necessarily want to take part, it's hard to charge for these devices. If it's done this way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] then, of course, we will agree to the amendment tabled just now so that it will come out. Finally, if your marshal would allow me, I would like to draw attention to an important area of good practice in parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen, we have received this proposal an hour before the committee meeting. We know that he was previously available because Mr Sulphura was kind enough to prepare amendments for this project. I think that some of the amendments that the representative of the Civic Platform was talking about today could also be discussed or invented before the committee meeting if we had received this project earlier. So that I have such a heartfelt request that these projects come to us earlier, because then we will be able to release an even better project after the first committee meeting. Thank you very much. And modern, of course, will support this project. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u314	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Dear Minister, Due to the special needs related to the preparation for the visit of His Holiness the Holy Father Francis and to the World Youth Days in Cracow and the urgent date of these events immediately after the first reading, the project was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The analysis of the government project in the committee led to several amendments. Finally, the committee adopted in the report a text which is the subject of further parliamentary work. The text of the bill is understandable and meets both the requirements of correct legislation and the expectations of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club in its nature. In the course of further parliamentary work, we are ready to support the amendments that will make this project even more perfect. By adopting Draft Printing Act 354 in the vote, we must believe that we will all stand up to the task and meet it with dignity, and that matters of wide security will be our priority and the highest order for us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u315	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law on special arrangements for organising the visit of Pope Francis and the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 prepared by the government certainly solves many problems with areas concerning cooperation between public administrations, organizer of World Youth Days and other entities in carrying out tasks related to such a large international event, which will be hosted not only by Kraków and Małopolska, but also by Poland as a whole. In all these desirable solutions and regulations, matters are also particularly important for organizers, organizational committee of the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 and pilgrims themselves. Therefore, I ask the Minister to answer the questions: Do the provisions of the law abolish the drafting of the so-called. a contingency plan for each location of the event organised by the Organisation Committee? And whether certain health standards in the Act do not limit [[♪ The bell ♪]] reception and accommodation of pilgrims in schools, public places or campsites? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u317	Thank you very much, sir. And yet the question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Wozniak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u318	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Firstly, as President of the Parliamentary Group for Catholic Social Science, I would like to thank all the clubs for their work so far on this bill. I believe that, as part of the arrangement, we will accept it without special emotions, because this event - as has already been said from this tribune - is extremely important not only for believers but also for the whole state. I also think it has an international dimension. I would like to ask the Minister a question. Are there any delays, threats at this stage of preparation, or are the work going quietly and preparing for this event without any delays, without any risks? Or are they? Because, I think, it's important to us - even if they were - to help solve them. I would also like to ask: Is this huge predicted number of participants [[♪ The bell ♪]] - it is estimated at 2.5 million, and maybe even more - will be adequately protected by Polish services, especially...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u319	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u320	...by the police and other people called to do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u321	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, representative of the government for the preparation of the World Youth Days - Kraków 2016 Mr Paweł Majewski wants to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you very much for the level of this discussion, for the climate of this discussion. I think I will join the words of Mr Wozniak here. Surely this agreement, which we hear here from various parts of the Parliament hall, is very much needed so that as Poland we can send such a message and to the Holy Father, and to young people from all over the world, that in Poland it is safe to come to Poland and to enjoy the shared experience of this religious event with the Holy Father, as well as the joint presence in the places of the celebrity. So, please take this as an answer to Mr Wozniak's question. Of course, we diagnosed some delays when we took over the preparations for this event, hence this special act. From here is a specialist - medical equipment needs to be bought, equipment for the service needs to be bought, the service needs to be secured. But it seems that after we've accepted this specialty, after we've completed these tenders, we'll be able to 100%. say about safety that it is at the highest level. At the moment, it seems that this legislative process, which is moving quickly, will enable us to fully equip and prepare for this event. As far as the committee is concerned, I think that that is where we will be discussing the amendments tabled by the Members. Of course, as has already been said here from different parts of the Parliament hall, this discussion yesterday, at first reading, was very fruitful and substantive, many comments were made. I would like to say to Mr Owl that, as regards the 25% increase in the remuneration for the services proposed by the Civic Platform Club, the idea is extremely good, we agree that the services should be paid for this work, while the level of remuneration set out in this Act is the level of service they had during the Euro 2012, i.e. the previous event of this complexity. This is the level that has also been accepted in the previous parliament. I think we can appeal to this pattern. As regards the grant for rail transport, this point refers to the Public Finance Act, which indicates that 80% This is as much as the government budget can finance, hence this return: up to 80%. These are the main issues. And yet, with regard to the questions of Mr Nobletka, yes, of course, everything is in this report. We have taken these voices into account, both health requirements and safety requirements. You're here... The warlord's taking on the burden. We're counting on fruitful cooperation with the organizer, hoping the voivodship will be... Just as this cooperation has been going well so far, we hope that it will continue to be fruitful. Once again, I want to thank you for this discussion, which is really very high. I'm glad we have such a level of consensus here. Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u323	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Edward Sularka, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u324	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to thank all the clubs very warmly for their work on this project, because, in fact, on this topic important for Poland, for the organisation of the World Youth Days, we had a good atmosphere, and for that I thank you very warmly as rapporteur. I would like to thank the Minister and the whole team very warmly, as well as the Legislative Office, which supported us in preparing the document, the final wording of the articles. This cooperation was very good here. Finally, I wanted to devote a few more sentences to the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which refers - on the occasion of World Youth Days - to the fact that it happened - to melioration. Where did this come from at all, because I think those who listen to us may not understand what the essence of things is. Well, the square, where the young people are to be gathered during the meeting with the Holy Father, is generally, you can say, the area of the interval, who was there, knows that this is a area that is partially wet and requires peddling. From what I consulted with the services of your Małopolska voivodeship, it appears that all the work related to melioration, the construction of these specific devices, was spent within the limits of PLN 2 million. Partly or mostly, the land there is private. Those who made this land available on the basis of a loan agreement did not ask to be meliorized. The State Treasury paid, the voivode paid for the peddling of these land and under the Water Law Act can apply as if for reimbursement of part of these costs. There is a special conversion factor that regulates these issues. It can apply for reimbursement of these costs under the so-called. the melioration fee. This revenue is the revenue of the State budget. On the other hand, all matters relating to counting are already the responsibility of the marshal himself, who is responsible for these tasks. And on a good note, if it turned out that the marshal, as a result of a review of these devices, would find - what I raised yesterday also in the committee - that, for example. They were degraded at the time of the meeting, because it often happens that devices rebuilt as a result of floods or events have been degraded... So automatically these fees can be abolished or you can simply lower them. I think that we will explain this matter to the end in the committee, so that it does not really give rise to the impression that the people who made the land available, their territory for a meeting with the Holy Father, on the World Youth Day, were to bear some costs for this, especially since of course there is an important argument that the value of these land by peddling is rising, but we can develop and go in such a direction as to clarify all the doubts that there are no such problems. Once again, Mr. Marshal, thank you for working on this project and all the clubs for voting for this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u325	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats (prints 189 and 330). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats. At its 9th meeting on 27 January, the Sejm sent the draft law to the committee. The committee met on 9 February and 15 March 2016. An extraordinary subcommittee was also set up to examine the draft law. I had the privilege of chairing this subcommittee. The subcommittee held four meetings. Written opinions for the bill were presented by the Minister of Interior and Administration, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, the National Judicial Council, the Attorney General, the Data Protection Officer General, the Office for Sejm Analysis and the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. In accordance with the authority given in the submission, representatives of the Ministry of Justice presented the position of the government during the work in committee and subcommittee. In addition, representatives of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the Chief of Police, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the Prosecutor General and the General Data Protection Officer took part in the work of the committee and the subcommittee. According to Art. 1 of the draft law sets out specific protection measures against sexual crime threats. Such offences are, with exemptions as set out in Article. 2 laws, crimes against sexual freedom listed in chapter XXV of the Penal Code. Special protection measures under the Act are: firstly, the Register of Criminals on the Sexual Background, which consists of two separate bases: a register with limited access and a public register, further, the obligations of employers and other organisers in relation to activities related to education, education, recreation, treatment or care of minors, and finally the identification of places of special risk of sexual crime. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, the view was widely expressed on the appropriateness of this legislative initiative. It involves preventing and combating sexual crime, especially against children and young people. All the regulations of the project have been discussed in a substantive and systematic manner three times: twice during the work of the subcommittee and once during the work of the committee. The opinions submitted and during the discussions raised doubts about some of the institutions and regulations of the project, in particular the existence and scope of the public register. As a result of the discussion and the amendments notified, much of the doubts were eliminated or clearly mitigated. The challenge will be to create a new electronic system for register keeping, which has affected the extension of the vacathio legis period until 1 October 2017. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law on the prevention of sexual crime, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the committee's report in print no 330. At the same time, the committee in accordance with the Rule. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm present 29 minority proposals to the applicants in the persons of Mrs Zofia Czernow and Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. I would like to thank you very warmly for the constructive cooperation between ladies and gentlemen, as well as all the experts and participants in committee and subcommittee meetings. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u327	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every now and then, the media informs us, and at the same time saddens us with such reports, of further cases of sexual crimes. Every crime, and in particular one that violates the security of such a delicate and intimate sphere as sexuality, deserves decisive action by the authorities of the state. It is therefore undeniable that when Prime Minister Beata Szydło's initiative to adopt a law on the prevention of sexual crime risks came from the government, the project gained acceptance and support of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This law is another step forward in the implementation of the policy package of legal solutions to protect the youngest. This electoral promise, which we are fulfilling, had previously included, among others. The only reason not to take children away from their parents is because their homes are poor. Although this example and this law apply to other aspects, they refer to the most sensitive spheres of life that affect the development of the youngest inhabitants of our country and their happy childhood. Just after the media described the story of a young woman from Siemiatic since a child imprisoned and raped by her father, Prime Minister Donald Tusk announced a policy of zero tolerance for pedophiles in 2008. A revised year later, the Penal Code introduced the concept of chemical castration, or treatment of paedophiles with means to reduce potency. A mandatory castration for paedophile rapists who served time was to be carried out in specially prepared psychiatric hospitals. However, these, which were opened in the light of the cameras, had rather an image dimension and had more impact on the indicators of political support than on statistics on sexual offences. This was, in our opinion, only a partial solution to the problem. However, my intention is not to criticize, because any action that improves safety and protects against paedophiles deserves to be appreciated and is a solid brick that builds a wall that protects victims of sexual crimes. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully shares the views of applicants and acknowledges that sexual crime is a growing problem. In particular, recent years with the development of IT and ICT technologies bring new risks in this area. The ease of communication, the anonymity of contacts and the universality of access to means of communication, while not being able to ensure effective supervision, make it possible to reach each of the potential victims and become the main field of action of these crimes. This is also supported by the increasing anonymity of life and the breakdown of control functions of social environments. In atomized societies where escape to privacy replaces a model of life in the community, crime becomes easier and thus the risk of being a victim of crime increases. This risk appears to be very high in particular with regard to children, and it should be stressed that the damage caused to them is often irreversible. This problem has been widely recognised and, at present, in many countries and in the fora of many international organisations, measures are being taken to implement measures to protect against sexual crime that are appropriate to the situation. Today, there is an increasingly common belief that, in order to combat sexual crime, the state cannot stop with reactive actions limited to detecting and punishing perpetrators of crimes already committed. It is assumed that there are currently two models of strategies for dealing with sex offenders. I have already mentioned the model of clinical work implemented in Poland in recent years, which emphasizes the treatment of perpetrators both during the time of their punishment and after their release. It is used, among others. in the Netherlands and Italy. The second model, in our opinion more effective, is the protection of the local community, the community protection model. Its main feature is the supervision of the perpetrators who have left the penal facility. This supervision shall be carried out by means of a set of tools, including by means of registers or verification of applicants for employment in educational and caring establishments where children are or may be present. This model is used, among others. in the United States and the United Kingdom. There are countries, for example. France, which use the combination of these methods of combating sexual violence. The most effective way for pedophiles is for Americans. The names, images and residence of the perpetrators are revealed, and the recidivists are isolated for life. In the UK, they are under constant control, and in Germany, so-called serial pedophiles are used. Preventive custody. Therapists point out that in Poland a pedophile can easily hire as a janitor in kindergarten or guardian at a Boy Scout camp. It doesn't work if you've ever been punished for pedophilia before. The fight against sexual abuse has been focused from the beginning on helping the victim and her loved ones. On the other hand, very often after the sentence has been served, the executioners are again guilty of assault. However, the events of recent years show that it is also important to focus on developing an effective policy against sex offenders. In the current state of law, there is insufficient resources to enable the perpetrators of sexual offences to be effectively controlled, and this often results in more similar crimes being committed by them. There are also no mechanisms effectively preventing contact with children, in particular sex offenders. It is therefore necessary to introduce the proposed law. It is the beginning of such a comprehensive, not only media war against paedophiles. On the one hand, the sex offender register will act as a warning to the public, and on the other hand it will be an additional ailment for the convicted. It reveals a number of personal data of criminals: information about penalties imposed, addresses of check-in and stay, as well as the image of the perpetrator. As Members of the Parliamentary Club, we believe that access to such information can significantly increase the safety of minors, particularly in areas where the authorities of the state or local government carry out activities related to education, education, care or recreation. The information obtained from the register is a valuable source not only for law enforcement or justice, but also for all, including public authorities, whose actions may somehow be related to minors. Sexual crimes, as a particularly shameful kind of crimes committed to the detriment of minors and often resulting in permanent defects and disturbances of victims in the sphere of emotional life and in the sphere of private life, deserve restrictive penalization. On the other hand, the welfare of minors demands special protection, ensuring that their contact with potential sex offenders is kept to a minimum during education and development. The bill is groundbreaking because there were no similar measures in Poland to protect society against sexual crime. The Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime is intended to protect citizens from perpetrators, especially those who are more likely to be victims of this type of crime because of their age. On behalf of our parliamentary environment, I would also like to thank you for the fruitful work that has been done in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, and especially in the subcommittee, which was a field of broad consultation. I would like to thank the guests for their many expert comments, which have enabled them to make valuable detailed amendments, thanks to which they have made the result of years of work in this field. A relatively long period of vacathio legis of the proposed law should also be noted. It will allow the establishment of a register based on it, as well as the organisation of other instruments it introduces. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, in support of this bill, agrees with the applicants that the solutions proposed therein should contribute to improving citizens' sense of security and, thanks to the preventive mechanisms introduced, also reduce the risk of sexual abuse that minors could face. In view of the arguments put forward, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u330	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the committee's report on the draft law on combating sexual crime threats and amending certain other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of the rights of the victims, in particular children against their sexual exploitation, is an extremely important matter. It requires legal solutions that really change the situation, free from facade, image or populist activities. The welfare of a child, the well-being of a child who was a victim of a sex crime, is the most important thing. Sexual abuse of a child is a crime whether it's in the family, in the school, on vacation or in the church. The film "Spotlight" made us all aware that this institution is not free from these crimes. It's not about pedophilia in Boston, as Maciej Orłoś presented it in the Teleexpress, but it's about pedophilia in the Boston diocese. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, we have introduced a number of amendments to legislation aimed at establishing a real control of sex offenders, abolishing the proposed prosecution of certain sexual offences, extending the limitation period for criminal offences committed to the detriment of minors or tightening the responsibility for child pornography offences. The Civic Platform will support the establishment of appropriate preventive measures as well as a support system for victims. At the same time, these actions, actions taken to achieve this objective, must not conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, nor with the ratified international agreements. In our view, the creation of a register with limited access would increase the safety of minors, especially in areas where the authorities of the state or local government carry out activities related to education, education, care or recreation. In our opinion, however, a wide range of information provided under the so-called. a public register may result in stigmatisation of convicted persons, including after the execution of the sentence, especially since in some cases it will be possible to close the conviction. However, the more important issue is the opinions that have also been made by the Ombudsman, those solutions that you have not improved and which may endanger the legal protection of life and the legal protection of the health of persons whose data will be entered in the register. In particular, the projector did not take into account the high level of social stigmatisation of sex offenders, which could lead to the rhetorical and often dangerous behaviour of others towards those perpetrators, outside the system of state justice. The most important issue, however, is the fact that the full and unambiguous identification of the person covered by the public register, resulting from the publication of the name, date of birth, but also the photograph of the perpetrator, may result in the identification of the victims where the victim is a member of the perpetrator's family, which may result in their unacceptable victimisation. This is a matter that we would like to concentrate on. The victim of the crime, the minor, the child, may be the victim again in a situation where the data of the parents who committed the crime will be made public and the victim thus identified. Therefore, the limited access register is most appropriate. The Civic Platform amendment, which Mrs Czernow will present, guarantees that these solutions will be acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, any sexual offense against a child is a crime. These solutions, which we have been conducting for years, were aimed at increasing the protection of minors, the protection of children. This project required appropriate changes. The amendments of the Civic Platform ensure that, after taking them into account, this project could count on our support. Otherwise, we will inform about our position after voting on the amendments of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u331	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill deals with very important social issues - preventing and combating sexual crime, in particular the protection of minors from such crimes. This is a very important project. The practice proves that the perpetrators of sex crimes against children often return to the crime despite previous convictions and that the sentenced sentence does not fulfil a sufficient preventive role. The project introduces additional measures to protect citizens, in particular children, from sexual crime. Sexual offences are international in nature and only the joint effort of all countries can be effectively combated. In Poland, the Penal Code has been repeatedly amended in order to increase the protection of sexual freedom, especially children. The existing institutions of criminal law make it possible to achieve to a large extent the objectives set out in this proposal. This is demonstrated by the statistics, which are also mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the project, which say that sexual crime is decreasing from year to year. I do not mean to say that the situation is satisfactory and there is no need to take new action. Conversely, any initiative aimed at reducing the scale of the phenomenon deserves a thorough analysis. The creation of a Register of Criminals on the Sexual Background committed with particular cruelty and the imposition on employers and other organisers of activities related to education, education, recreation, treatment of minors or care for them of the obligation to verify the criminal past of applicants for employment is a legitimate and necessary action. Such a task meets a limited-access register, which, due to the very wide range of information about the convicted person and a wide catalogue of authorised information from that register, allows the purpose of the project to be achieved. There are limited access criminal records in France and the United Kingdom. Unlike a limited-access register, the institution of the public register raises serious constitutional doubts, and the fact that no European country has a public register makes it necessary to reflect on the validity of its introduction. The draft law on the establishment of a public register does not adequately protect victims of sexual offences and in particular children. The publication of personal data and other information on the perpetrator may lead to the identification of the victim in the local environment and thus to secondary victimisation of the victim. It is necessary to protect children or minor victims of sexual offences against identification. Wide access to the register can paradoxically reduce the number of sexual offences reported by victims in fear of being identified and branded. Yet, it is something completely different - an increase in the detection of these crimes. The proposed regulation on the public register constitutes a major interference in the constitutionally protected sphere of rights and it is necessary to assess the respect of the principle of proportionality referred to in Article. 31th Constitution. These are essential standards in the rule of law and we want to live in the state of law. I would like to point out that the extensive sections of Andrzej Sakowicz's publication on the register of sex offenders used in the explanatory memorandum are selective, as they ignore the author's very important request to introduce a register in Poland. I quote: access to it should be limited, left to the representatives of the judiciary, law enforcement and others - I will not mention, the end of the quote. I read the full text of this publication. I very much regret that the authors of the justification have omitted such an important part of this publication. In conclusion, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has tabled amendments and then minority proposals aimed at abandoning the establishment of a public register. I appeal to Members of all political options to support minority proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u333	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The degree of involvement of the Platform government in the fight against the most dangerous types of crime can be considered insufficient. And that's the most diplomatic term you can use. If the Government of the Civic Platform has already taken some action in the area of broadly understood criminal law, then these were solutions to expand the guarantee for suspects and accused persons. In recent years, the state has gradually given way to criminals, one step at a time. If we are talking about the functions that criminal law should fulfil, bearing in mind that the fight against crime should be carried out under the conditions of a balanced protection and guarantee function, it must be said that in recent years there has been a strong guarantee for perpetrators of criminal offences. Such legislative initiatives, carried out with the applause of organisations that defend citizens' rights, but unfortunately mostly citizens who break the law, were many. Here we can only mention the provisions providing for the reduction of limitation periods, which are in fact a great gesture of kindness towards the criminal world, or the unfortunate July amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was intended to kill the State - the Police and the Prosecutor's Office - teeth in the fight against crime, making suspects and accused persons of privileged standing. High Seym! It's time for this House to be more assertive about lobbying for criminals. It is time for this House to create a law to serve its citizens, a law to protect its victims. The initiatives I mention were complemented by an 8-year band of omissions in the fight against crime. During this period, no one noticed how much crime is changing, that crime is becoming a cross-border phenomenon, that a great deal of prohibited acts are committed by means of a network. At that time, the prosecution intensified its efforts in the area of carp protection or in the fight against hate speech. These are important things, but you have to learn to distinguish between spaces where the danger is highest. No one has noticed any change in the structure of sexual crime, including the most dangerous one, because it's aimed at children. No one could see how dangerous the phenomenon of return to crime is in this area. No one has noticed the lack of a strong legal response from the State to these threats. The legal model of the response to child sexual crime is based on registers covering, among others. people called pedophiles. These registers allow for the implementation of a concept which in criminology is referred to as community polycing. It's a so-called concept. Environmental police, which work in close cooperation with communities not only in detecting but also in combating crime. In the countries where it operates, e.g. Scandinavian, crime can be neutralized in the embryo. It's time for such a philosophy in Poland. It is a philosophy that ensures the safety of our children, and must be promoted. The Kukiz Club15 strongly supports the creation of this register, especially since it will be a public register and thus enable the public to respond adequately to the risks that exist. For us, victims' rights will always be more important than legal guarantees for those committing crimes. Saying this, I do not regret that Kukiz15 will not have such high ratings among criminal circles. Let the criminals vote for the ones they always vote for. The state must protect the victims. After 8 years, the cut-off tariff for criminals ends, the cut-off tariff for pedophiles ends. However, our doubts are raised by the inclusion in the record of the perpetrators of acts of relatively less weight resulting from the article. 200a or 200b of the Penal Code. It seems reasonable that the data collected in the register relate to the most serious crimes contained in Chapter XX of the Criminal Code. The equalization of a paedophile with a person who praises this disgusting act is disproportionate, especially since the person entered in the register will be in it for the rest of his life. Our objection is also raised by the inclusion in the register of persons already in the National Criminal Register due to the repressive nature that violates the principle of non-retroactivity. Registration of the perpetrator of an act in Article. 201 Penal Code, incest, can lead to stigmatization of the victim. We'll report amendments. We depend on their adoption to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will now speak from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u336	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats, print No 189, following the report of the committee in print No 330. Ladies and gentlemen! Every crime against a child is a crime, and a sexual crime is a monstrous crime. We must undoubtedly protect all children. In principle, any legislation aimed at improving security for the general public or for the selected group is desirable. However, for a reason I used the words "in principle." Legislation must introduce solutions which will have a real effect in the area concerned. This is all the more important in the areas covered by this project, namely on citizens' safety and children's safety. Here all effective action is undoubtedly simply necessary. Unfortunately, today we are talking about a law that will bring good solutions, but, more importantly, it can harm many people. But that's what we're about to hear. At first, I'm going to focus on those elements that are going in the right direction. We note that the provisions of the Act provide that prior to having a relationship with a person, or before allowing another person to do other activities related to education, education, recreation, treatment or care of minors, employers or other organisers in the field of such activities are obliged to obtain information as to whether the data of that person are included in the register with limited access. It's the right thing to do. It will help to improve the safety of children placed under care. It can also be assumed that a secret register is a good solution, which will allow the verification of applicants for work with children and will allow a quick explanation of the status of the person indicated by the relevant services, that it is a good solution to inform the police of the whereabouts which the law introduces for the perpetrator of the register. I'm sure the police will use it to prevent it, which will increase the level of security. On this, however, solutions that can be said to be going in the right direction end. The worse ones start. On many occasions, I have wondered how to balance the good and the bad. I have always come to the conclusion that this is a question of how much the purpose justifies the means. How much further suffering will this bill cause for those who have already been harmed? How much will this bill affect those who have the misfortune of being close to convicted degenerates? How much of the country's role is comprehensive security, and how much should the state cede this obligation on its citizens? I must say, these consequences are difficult to accept. I am sad to say, too, that today we have failed to convince the government to change its mind. We have failed to persuade the government to compromise and balance the measures contained in the bill, and we will find there two solutions which, in our view, are disqualifying. The first solution is a map of particularly dangerous sites published on websites. We appreciate your good intentions, but no criminal with online access to this map will be haunted in these places. On the contrary, it will move to those areas that are designated as safe. That's where he's gonna hunt the victims. Such a map, yes, should be created, but to plan preventive measures. These preventive measures would indeed improve safety. A map could be available at the request of individuals. However, the publication of an online map will even increase the sense of danger in those areas that the map considers dangerous. This is of course not the only negative effect of such a map, but in our opinion this is the most important one. The second controversial solution is the public register. We see good intentions here, too, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's like with good intentions that hell is paved. These good intentions translated into the project records can bring hell for the victims and for the close criminals included in the register. Why are we so judgmental? Well, according to the available data, about 80% sex crimes are committed in families by people close to them, by people known to them. Therefore, the data of the perpetrators included in the register will result in the identification of the victims and the marking of the close perpetrators, i.e., first, the victims and, second, those who are absolutely innocent in this situation. These people will be stigmatized. We are all aware of what this means for a child attending school when he is stigmatized with some terrible story, which means to God the spirit of the guilty ones who are close to him to mark them as a degenerate family. Such stigmatising, ladies and gentlemen, is simply wicked. It must also be said that there are very few registers in the world that are completely open, and only in some U.S. states. Experts clearly say that stigmatized criminals become hunters, change their appearance, place of residence, are not traceable, are not recognized or controlled. They live on the outskirts, and they're out in completely different areas, threatening the lives of minors. It's hard to accept the cost. At the end of this calculation we must also honestly mention that this is a simple way to provoke fear and aggression on the part of parents, which will be difficult to master. It's the way we find the wrong names, the wrong photographs, the wrong faces, the wrong people. It is a simple road to public lynching, which in the state of law should be unacceptable. During committee meetings, we identified other areas as those that could be better achieved, but the two points above are most important to us. Now I'm going to tell you what's not in this bill. The authors of the bill had two goals: prevention and stigmatization of sex offenders. The experience and opinions of experts, also presented during committee meetings, show that only one of these paths, precisely prevention, but linked to therapy, with the continuous monitoring of these criminals, can have the effect of reducing the amount of sexual crimes committed. It is a pity that the government has not attempted such a holistic one, taking into account the above-mentioned demands for this difficult subject. Ladies and gentlemen! The modern has tabled amendments to the minority. For the reasons that I have just mentioned today, I appeal once again to the Government: Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much to examine our amendments and to see them care for the victims and the innocent. Back them up. There are records in this act that significantly improve the safety of Polish children and other people, but there are, unfortunately, also those that will cause harm. The goal cannot justify the means that hurt victims once again and innocent people, because there is absolutely no humanity in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u337	Thank you very much. Now I ask for the voice of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present the position of the club regarding the draft act on the prevention of sexual crime threats, prints no. 189 and 330. The bill is based on three key pillars. The first is the introduction of a register of sex offenders, the second is the imposition on employers and other organisers of responsibilities in the field of education, education, treatment or care of minors and the third is the identification of places where sexual offences are particularly at risk. The idea of creating a sex offenders register is right and necessary. However, the Polish People's Party shares concerns about the content of the law expressed by the Polish Sex Society. I will quote a passage from this position: The Polish Sex Society is of the opinion that no registers of sex offenders of a public nature should be created. I'm sorry, Firstly, the long-term evaluation of the effectiveness of public registers operating in other countries clearly and consistently shows that they do not contribute to a decrease in the level of sexual recidivism. This means that public registers are completely ineffective in reducing the risk of sexual crime. Secondly, the results of this evaluation also show that the existence of registers does not result in a reduction in the overall level of sexual crime. This means that public registers do not act as a deterrent either. I'm sorry, Thirdly, the existence of such a register significantly reduces the possibility of sexual offenders being treated. This is because for the perpetrators to appear in the register, especially those who will be there for life (the perpetrators referred to in Art. 106a of the Criminal Code), there will be no prospect of a return to society, which will significantly reduce the possibility of their therapy and rehabilitation. This means that the existence of public registers hinders the prevention of sexual crime. Fourthly, the existence of public records of sex offenders not only does not prevent sex crimes but also does not reduce the level of social fear associated with such crimes. There is a counter-dependence here - the existence of such a register increases the level of social anxiety associated with sexual crimes. It should therefore be added that the identification of places of special threat referred to in the Act will increase this fear. The project under investigation assumes the existence of two registers: a register with limited access and a public register. Draft law in Article. In spite of restricting the scope of the information received, 12 (6) shall grant access to the register with limited access to employers and other organisers before admitting a person to an activity related to education, education, recreation, treatment or care of minors. The question arises as to whether, in connection with the expert opinion just quoted, we are not dealing with a very wide range of entities having access to the full register. As I said at the outset, the PSL Parliamentary Club is in favour of creating a register, but it is worth listening to specialists on this issue, and they are in the position that the existence of non-public sex offenders registers is an important element of the anti-sexual crime system. Of course, there is a need to organize the therapy of perpetrators, probation and post-penitentiary supervision. With regard to the changes made during the committee's work, it is to be welcomed that it has been introduced: firstly, to extend the scope of the offences excluded in Article. 2 of the proposed law, in particular by removing criminal offences covered by compulsory registration in the Register of Crimes referred to in Article. 202 § 4a-4c, as in the case of these offences the entry in the register could be too severe for the perpetrator; secondly, the amendment to Article. 6 concerning the deletion of the entry in the register of persons against whom proceedings on the basis of amnesty have been definitively discontinued; thirdly, amendments to Article. 9, increasing the powers of the court in the context of making entries in the register; fourthly, restricting the transitional provisions of the circle of persons who have committed sexual offences before the entry into force of this Act. In this respect, there is serious doubt as to the compatibility of the proposed Article. 27 by law, because according to the Roman principle of nulla poena sine lege, which is in force under criminal law in Poland, it is not possible to apply a penalty to a criminal that was not in force during the commission of the crime, and in the context of the penalty an entry in the register should be considered. In conclusion, the direction of the creation of a sex offenders register should be positively assessed, which could significantly improve the safety of citizens. However, the creation of a public register can to a large extent be a stigmatization of close perpetrators and, as already expressed by the previous speakers, places where these dramatic events have taken place, associated with such prohibited acts. It is clear that the task of the State is to protect citizens and citizens from the dangers of convicted unscathed improvements, but we must also bear in mind reducing the barriers posed to criminals that prevent them from returning to society. However, this does not change the fact that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in the position that the law on the prevention of sexual crime is needed in Poland, and thus we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u339	Thank you very much. You will now speak to the Secretary of State... Oh, I'm sorry, five more Members have asked questions. Would any of you like to join us? I therefore close the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Jacek Kurzepa of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Listening to this debate, they might ask us: What do you think about the executioners? What are you deliberating about, whether the one who snuck into the child's room at night and destroyed his tenderness in a cruel way and forever, in this further operation, is better than the victim? A victim whose trauma doesn't end with an endless sexual act, but it lasts his whole life. So the question, Minister, is also how much this victim should participate in the opportunities to change this life.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u341	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of the bill under consideration, one of the main aspects of the purpose of imposing penalties provided for in the Penal Code, i.e. the rehabilitation of a criminal, is not seen. Instead, the drafter introduces a constitutionally prohibited rule, or more specifically the democratic rule of law based on Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and the European Convention on Human Rights, double criminality. The question arises as to whether the government has taken international law, including EU Community law, constitutional provisions and aspects of the effective rehabilitation of the criminal, into account in the design of the project. Furthermore, as regards the employer's obligation to check the public register for the criminality of the applicant for sexual offences, another question arises as to whether it would not be sufficient to require the applicant to provide an appropriate attestation of non-criminality in the absence of such acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u343	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The government is committed to establishing a public register despite the negative views of most bodies and institutions presenting opinions on this matter. There is a high likelihood that this part of the law will be declared unconstitutional. I have a question: Isn't the government afraid of claims against the Polish state for violation of personal property protected by the Constitution? And two: Why did the government resign from the inter-ministerial arrangements, which would help to remove existing doubts? Especially since it is proposed a very long vacathio legis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u345	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In a social sense, a criminal has more rights than a victim. There is insufficient resources to enable the perpetrators of sexual crimes to be effectively controlled, which often results in further crimes being committed by the same people. It should be particularly important to protect children from sexual abuse. The sex offender register introduced by this law has a significant purpose, that is its purpose, to increase the safety of minors. My question is this: Who and to what extent will have access to the database in the so-called. a register with limited access and who to the so-called. Public record? Will every citizen have access to it? What's the difference between these registers? Will and how will the impact of this law be monitored and assessed on the reduction of the scale of such offences?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u347	Thank you very much, Member. Now you are asking Mr Szczerba from the Civic Platform club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first question is: Did the Minister withdraw the opinion of the Attorney General on this bill? Attorney General Andrzej Seremet has expressed many doubts, also constitutional, about this government bill. So the first question is this opinion. Second point: Does the Minister share the opinion of the General Data Inspector, who has also formulated opinions on this public register? First of all, your personal data protection officer states that, with regard to these proposed solutions, possible negative consequences for third parties linked to a convicted person through family ties or having identical or similar names cannot be overlooked. They, too, may become the purpose of unjust stigmatization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u349	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jak, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u350	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I would like to answer the questions raised during the discussion. Mr Kurzepa asked a question, in the context of a concerted discussion, which is who is more important: the victim or the perpetrator. In the opinion of the Polish government, there is no doubt that the victim is more important, and sometimes I feel that we are afraid of this perpetrator, forgetting that the giant tragedy is being experienced by the victim. And that is also the goal, and that is the intention of this project. Another question about human rights and double criminality. As I say, if I were malicious, I could ask you about Mr Gostynin from the Platform, but I will not, because I also believe that this solution was needed. Sometimes, when we have a dilemma about the safety of the victim and the safety of the child, I have no doubt that the safety of the child is always the priority of the safety of the child and, in my view, that intention should also guide the High House. There are a lot of doubts about access to the public register. However, I would like to remind the High House that the register available to the public will concern a particular category of persons, namely those who have been convicted of the most brutal crimes against children, such with particular cruelty, and secondly, criminals who act in a redecisive, thirdly, criminals who have committed their actions against a child under the age of 15. This is a special category of criminals. Therefore, if the word "rehabilitation" is mentioned in this context, in my opinion this is not necessarily a good lead, to say very euphemistically. Fourthly, High Sejm, since we use statistics, I would like to quote the statistics of the U.S. Department of Justice. Between 1992 and 2010, during the period of operation, introduction and operation of this register, the number of sexual offences decreased, attention, by 62%. Therefore, if we are talking today about effective tools, I have no doubt, High Sejm, that this is an effective tool. But also meeting expectations, taking into account the doubts that arise, also during the committee work, about the possibility that there might be such cases that the victim would be threatened when such a perpetrator is in the family, and this is a traceable small town, etc., we deliberately introduced the provision of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, which refers to the fact that the court can only rule out the inclusion of the data of that person in the public register if there is an exceptional case, justified solely by the good of the injured minor. Therefore, I would like to stress once again: in response to the opposition's expectation, we have introduced a solution which, in our view, guarantees that the judge who will have evidence, when he considers that such a threat exists, will be able to make the decision that the parliamentarians mentioned during this discussion. Finally, High Sejm, I would like to remind you - as we refer to you, you have referred to the work of NGOs - that there are non-governmental organisations that are currently engaged in catching pedophiles on the Internet. Unfortunately, the development of the global world has also led to the development of this type of crime. And what do these organizations say? On average, a pedophile is caught in Poland every other day. High Seym! It's time for tough and firm action, not talk. We're talking about the safety of the youngest. Parents have the right to feel safe and have the right to know. If in their immediate surroundings there is a person who has been convicted of paedophile crimes with particular cruelty or acted in a redecisive, because once the rehabilitation you mentioned did not work, parents, especially parents, have the right to effectively protect their children. That's why it's a project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u351	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws (prints No 289 and 331). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws. At its 13th meeting on 9 March, the Sejm referred the draft law to the committee for consideration. The committee was held on 16 March. It was attended by representatives of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office with the Director of Prof. Małgorzata Manowska, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and a representative of the National Judicial Council. The applicants were represented by Mr Michał Wójcik. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was established by the Law of 23 January 2009. The Minister of Justice is responsible for the supervision of the school. According to Art. 2 (2) 1 point 3 of the Act is the task of a national school to conduct a judicial application and a prosecutor's application, the purpose of which is to obtain the necessary knowledge and practical preparation by applicants for the appointment of a judge, judicial assistant, prosecutor and prosecutor of the prosecutor's office. The Commission considered it appropriate, as intended, to temporarily extend the duration of the two-stage initial training model, consisting of a 12-month general application and a subsequent 30-month judicial or prosecutorial application. The solutions adopted last year by the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office raised concerns about the effectiveness of training candidates for judges and prosecutors. The extension of the existing form of training will allow for the announcement of recruitment in 2016 for the general application, while at the same time giving time for extensive discussion and the preparation of necessary and well-thought-out changes. In view of the fact that the national school is subject to the supervision of the Minister of Justice, the committee also supports the proposal that the head of the school be appointed and, under certain conditions, also cancelled by the Minister of Justice. The recognition of the committee also found the proposed amendments to the Law of 27 July 2001. The Law on the System of General Courts, in particular that the President of the Court of Appeal should inform the Minister of Justice as early as possible if he had been informed of the intended retirement of the judge. This will improve the management of judicial posts and allow for a shift in activities relating to the formation of first assesor positions in regional courts. This is intended to allow legislative work to be undertaken in order to optimally shape the model of access to the judge's office by the graduates of the judge's application. Legislative amendments were adopted during the committee's work and the name of the law was changed in this framework. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and certain other laws, asks the High Sejm to adopt the draft law as proposed in the committee's report in print No 331. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u353	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u354	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present my position on this project. A number of doubts arise from the mouths of lawyers, from the mouths of applicants and persons involved in the training of prosecutors and judicial applicants in connection with the April 2015 Act. This applies primarily to the separation of judicial and prosecutorial applications and to the change of the system that has always been the case, in which the application has always started a general application, and then divided into professional, judicial or prosecutorial applications. These doubts must be carefully examined. First of all, the functioning of the current system should be verified and changes should be made to the shape of the training of judicial and prosecutorial applicants. Therefore, the rush to introduce this law and the drastic reversal of the current rules at such a rate is certainly not advisable. The law also regulates the selection of the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which seems correct because the Minister should also have full competence with regard to the appointment of the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Changes in this area also require support. For these reasons, the Law and Justice Club will be in favour of this law as proposed in print No 331. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u356	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! For starters, a few words of reminder. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office was established by the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office as a legal person under the supervision of the Minister of Justice and began to operate in 2009. It is the only central institution responsible for initial and continuous training of judicial and prosecutorial staff. By regulation, the Minister of Justice gave the statutes of the national school, defined its system. What is very important, it is the task of the national school to carry out applications: general, judge, prosecutor, the aim of which is to obtain the necessary knowledge and practical preparation by the applicants for the position of judge, prosecutor, prosecutor, assistant prosecutor, assistant prosecutor and referee, as well as training and professional training of judges, prosecutors and prosecutors in order to complement their professional expertise and skills. The National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office shall develop internship programmes, prepare and organise judicial and prosecutorial examinations. What's the change in this bill? First of all, it changes, and this must be said very clearly, the appointment and dismissal of the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It can be said very clearly: it is another institution in which the so-called. A good change, i.e. the possibility of a very simple, schematic, can be said, for this team of government appointments and cancellations at any time director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, as I said, a school established by law. Of course, this parliamentary project, and here it is like my problem with it, is another project, which is a parliamentary project, a project for which no opinion was asked. I do not see at this point an opinion, particularly the National Judicial Council, the Attorney General or any other opinion, which could still influence the final shape of the project at the stage of the design of these changes, and it seems that this is absolutely a matter in which the National Judicial Council and the Attorney General should have spoken much earlier, not at the stage of merely submitting a message. The additional elements that are amended by this amendment are the extension of the existing two-step model of initial training of applicants, the improvement, as claimed by the applicants, the filling of redundant judicial positions or the clarification of the provisions on the conversion of redundant judicial positions into assessors positions, the delays in the creation of common assessor positions in the judiciary. What is peculiar and schematic for this authority and for this parliamentary majority, the law is to enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. It's another bill without a vacathio legis... [[This is a continuation.]] ...which enters into force the day after the announcement. The proposal does not fall within the scope of European Union law, but, as I said, it is a mistake to present a proposal to amend four laws in the form of a parliamentary proposal. I also believe that the change in appointment, the dismissal of the school head is inappropriate, and this will be the position of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u357	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, one might ask what these five-minute speeches are about in the case of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but I would like to go back to the broader discussion that took place on the committee. I expect that after this so-called. In the end, we will move on to the discussion we want to have on the judicial model in Poland. Do we want a model of a school and inexperienced and young judges, or do we want a model of a judge as a crown of competition, a judge with a lot of experience? It's a matter of discussion. This should be a discussion not only among lawyers, it should be a discussion with NGOs and citizens. There's one thing I'm worried about. Here Mr Szczerba said that this law is moving in the text to, you can say, bet your heads of national judicial schools and prosecutors' offices. Well, yes, behind the first one, from Krakow, I am two hands, because I personally know him, and I know who he is, I know what he was doing, and I wonder who put him there. I mean, you guys sure put it in, now they want to change it. I therefore have this general appeal to the applicants. Before you start forming, re-influenceing the school of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office, it would really be necessary to consider and verify the procedures for selecting these so-called ones. Jury champions or prosecutors who are supposed to teach young people. Because first of all, we have reservations about these professors, in quotes of professors who are teaching in judicial schools today. Sure, and they're great, but not all of them, and that's what we're sure of. The time will come for us to start talking about it out loud, by name and by name. The only thing that worries me here is that it's delayed the introduction of an asessor function. It's logical that there's gonna be some kind of delay. In fact, there is no correct name because there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court that the assessor cannot pursue his profession. Finally, it would also have to be decided - in the end, I ask you - whether the judge should have a lifetime appointment or a periodic appointment, whether he should be a rehearsal judge or not, what studies and what he should be going through. And don't joke about it, because on the other hand, it's a hard, stressful profession and leaving it out of control so that the judge can be tested once in his life, when he's a young man, it's far, far too little. I would like to be sure, and we, Mr Kukiz.15, would like to be sure that in Poland judgments are issued and indictments are written by healthy prosecutors and judges. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15 in this situation, because it is a law that essentially amends the 2009 Act, from 2005, adapts the Law on the system of common courts and the prosecution, we will support this law, but we will demand a loud discussion on this issue and we will demand a clear assessment of the public promotions of lecturers to national judicial schools and prosecutors. It must be the authority, not the giving of those who have the back. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u359	Thank you. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u360	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It has been a great honor for me to present the position of the Poselski Club for the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights concerning the amendment of the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office and some other laws. Julius Caesar used to say that the teacher of everything was practice. However, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice sees in this role control, and more precisely the one-man control of the Minister of Justice. The project in essence assumes the creation of a specific pyramid of dependency on the way to the judicial profession. The applicant has so far been subject in part to the President of the District Court or the District Attorney, and in part to the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thanks to this solution, the applicant has the opportunity to enter the structure of the court or prosecution at application level and to get acquainted with his future employer and profession. This is a purely professional practice which, after five years of legal studies focused on theoretical teaching, is extremely necessary. The project allows the applicant to take part in court proceedings before the district court in the simplest cases in which the investigation was conducted. However, it will happen without supervision of the prosecutor, which may seem a huge challenge for someone who was prepared only theoretically at this stage of his career. The next element of this pyramid will be the director of the national school of judges and prosecutors. This may still be demonstrated by the wording of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5a concerning the reasons for the cancellation of the head of the national school. There is a legitimate concern that the Minister of Appeal may justify, in any way, the failure to fulfil his duties in the performance of his duties or the failure to comply with the requirements of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. If the Director does not fulfil the will of the Minister of Justice, will you take away from him, e.g. Science degree, what is the result of these provisions? I understand that these changes have something to do with the recently adopted and quite strongly accentuated law on the prosecution's office, which has created a special department for the prosecution. prosecuting alleged crimes committed by prosecutors and judges, so-called Internal police. At the top of the pyramid created, the Minister of Justice will be able to freely translate smaller blocks in the form of judges' positions, assessors' positions in any selected places, and even at any time. Change made at the Justice Committee meeting in Article. 20a § 3 point 1, where the word "freed" has been replaced by "assigned," gives me some interpretive freedom, which also raises my concern. Who, as well as who will be assigned assessors' positions, can now only be asked by the Minister of Justice. Law and Justice promised another good change. I am sure that this change is going the wrong way. The proposed provisions in the Act are merely to give applicants time to identify the currently unknown direction in which young judges and prosecutors are to be trained, as the head of the national school itself is told by Judge Małgorzata Manowska. Unfortunately, in practice, you are introducing uncertainty among applicants about their future and complicate the process of training judges and prosecutors. In my earlier speech, I also mentioned the mechanism for notifying the Minister of Justice 5 months before the planned dismissal of the judge, which we believe may also serve the so-called. frying a candidate, which also does not contribute to us being a club Modern support for this project. That is why we have a negative attitude toward him. Thank you very kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u361	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Many of the arguments I have put forward have already sounded in the discussion at the first reading stage, and I would not like to repeat them, but I will say a few words after all. The model proposed in the amendment adopted in the previous term of office of the Sejm assumed that the burden of training would be transferred to individual districts. In the assessment of the club PSL, application training must prepare thoroughly for the profession of judge or prosecutor, and the main element of such preparation should be the day-to-day work in the performance of duties in appropriate positions in courts and organisational units of the prosecutor's office. The project assumes the training of applicants in Krakow and their practice in common courts and prosecutors' offices. The current state of law assumes that school applicants would be employed in court and district attorneys' offices, where they would perform the same duties as assistants. This is an optimal solution, because on the one hand such applicants are better prepared for the profession, and on the other hand the actions of the courts and prosecutors will be improved. It is not for nothing in the judge's assistants' environment that there is a saying that the assistant is the master of the process, because it is the assistants who largely unload the embolism at the stage of non-trial proceedings. Regardless of the above, it should be noted that the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office has been amended several times during its period of validity. The draft law on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office is another return to solutions that have failed and have been changed in a thoughtful manner and preceded by several months of consultation by the Sejm of the previous term of office. In view of the above reservations, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not see the possibility of supporting the submitted project in its proposed form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u363	Thank you very much. One Member joined the questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That raises the question. This is another law that increases the powers of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. The question is this: Is it appropriate to arm one man with as many possibilities to act, to make decisions in such a delicate matter as justice and judicial matters? This is all the more so when we hear a lot of reservations from the Law and Justice, as regards judges, courts or the strengthening of powers that can make the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General more able to select the staff and exchange those present for new, as if more favorable, which raises some doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u365	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Piebiak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me refer in this brief speech to the speeches on behalf of the clubs and to Mr Meysztowicz's question. Firstly, Mr Szczerba Gracew was aware that this is a parliamentary project, and therefore there is a lack of statements by various actors, including the National Council of Courts. Well, just because it's a parliamentary project, that's what's missing. With regard to the National Judicial Council, in fact, the absence of a statement, the absence of an opinion on the draft law is also caused by a circumstance entirely from the government or parliament, at least in this manner, independent, because the council is sitting in a monthly system, once a month, the members of the council meet for 4 and 5 days. As far as I know, there is an opinion on the forthcoming Council meeting on 22 March, so perhaps this opinion will come up. However, this is not the basis for halting the legislative process, because - and here I will refer to the Member's next statement - by 30 April this law must enter into force so that it is not carried out by the school head in a new formula resulting from the Act of 10 July 2015, so the law should enter into force before that date. This recruitment should not be carried out, because both the Members who have notified this project and the Ministry of Justice are in the position that this new model is an incorrect, underdeveloped model, it is simply a bad model, and I will try to convince you here in a moment. With regard to the motive for increasing the powers of the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, the assassination of the head of the national judicial school, the minister's submission to him, the minister becomes omnipotent, of course, one can accept and try to prove it, but it would be good if it had any reflection in the text of the project, and this project at no point in the authority of the Minister of Justice in relation to the head of the school does not increase. You are talking about the article. 12a. Art. 12a is only a different wording. 13 determining the grounds for appeal of the Director of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was in force before the date of entry into force of the Act of 10 July 2015 And he actually pointed out the reasons that must be met in order to benefit from this unique institution of cancellation of the school head before the end of his term of office. The previous government, the previous government coalition, led to the deletion of the article. 13 in the Act of 10 July 2015 so that the Minister of Justice does not have any grounds for appealing the Director. Therefore, this project restricts the authority of the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General over the head of the school, because it clarifies in which cases this head of the school can be cancelled, and today's legal status, for which at least some of them opt, leads to total freedom. For whatever reason, the Minister of Justice could cancel the school principal today. If this project comes into force, it will be gone. The article will apply. 12a, which is the exact equivalent of Article. 13, who did not like the previous coalition and was removed because he was just restricting the minister's authority. With regard to the question of the asessor, the statement by Mr Jachnik, it is, of course, an institution which raises some constitutional doubts, as there was a ruling of the tribunal. This is an institution that needs to be considered calmly. This law actually allows us all - the Ministry of Justice as the body that will propose some solutions, and the parliament as the one who will accept them or not - to decide what the way to the judge's office will really be and how this judicial office will look like: whether there will be judges for trial, whether there will be judges appointed on time or not, whether there will be any, everyone will be appointed immediately for life and removed only in disciplinary proceedings. It's all there to think about. This bill absolutely doesn't prejudice. This law allows us to think about this calmly in a normal way, after hearing the opinions of all those concerned: and of social organisations, and of all the parliamentary clubs, and of the National Judicial Council, and of all those interested in this issue. This is a matter actually for the legal order of the Republic of Poland of fundamental importance. On April 21st, there is a large conference organized by the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office with invited guests from different sites and backgrounds in Krakow to talk about access to the judicial office. Let's see what happens. I'm sure the Minister of Justice after this conference will have a better understanding of possible solutions for the future. Frying the candidate in this Chamber is once again appearing in the issue of Mr Zembaczyński. I understand that this is such a humorous accent, because he has no connection to the project we are discussing here. Art. 56 The law on the system of universal courts concerns a completely technical issue, but essential for the smooth functioning of the justice system. He is important, because if we know six months earlier or seven months or eight months earlier that the place in the court will be released, because someone will go to rest - it is a future event, and it is certain, unless he dies earlier - then why not start the procedure for the seat of the judge so that, if we know that on July 1 or September 1 the seat in the District Court in Wołomin will be released, immediately, on September 1st, when the judge will retire, the next one will come to his place? No, I understand that in the issue of the Member, it should look like that we all pretend that on 1 September it will not come, and when it does, then the President will notify the Minister, the Minister will initiate the procedure - the Minister is not a decision-maker, it is not the Minister who decides who will become a judge, so the Minister will only carry out technical activities and then submit the application for vote, evaluation and decision of the national council to the judge's assembly, to the college of the court and ultimately to the National Council of Courts. What will be the result? Only that we'll be six months or eight months behind, behind in that courthouse will grow. That's what's gonna happen. And the minister really didn't fry the candidate. it does not plan, nor does it have the possibility. Oh, district training - the question is whether or not Mr Pasyk's statement is correct. This system that we have today, which, the Minister of Justice hopes, will be changed, is a little unreasonable. If the head of the national school is responsible for keeping the quality of the training as high as possible, so that the Polish state has the best judges and best prosecutors, then it should have the means to do so. If the education process is so that a week in Krakow, and then another 3 weeks somewhere in Poland, where the applicant lives and in local court or local office of the prosecution, he is doing his practice, e.g. Assassin activities, it's obvious that it's better to control how he's trained in a practical way, have a school principal, not a local court president or a local district attorney, a district attorney. Why? Because at this point, we're losing all responsibility for the outcome. The director, without the tools really, because he will have no tools, will already be a foreign employee who only appears once a month in Krakow, so he will not have real tools to control this applicant, to know what activities he is recommended to do, so that these are activities that serve to develop his skills in the context of the future profession of judge or prosecutor, rather than activities that are relevant to a given court or prosecution, because a given court or prosecution is simply to control the influence. Therefore, the primary objective of the President or the Prosecutor's Office will be to patch holes and this will be to patch holes with this applicant. This applicant isn't gonna train, he's just gonna patch holes where he needs to be. This is not the way to spend huge sums on national schools and to train individuals at national schools. Therefore, such submission of the double applicant, the principal and, at the same time, the President of the Court or the Prosecutor is inappropriate. It is actually what was before the Act of 10 July, and that is why this system should be maintained. Moreover, to conclude this statement, one of the main objectives for which the National School of Judicial Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office was, firstly, to ensure a high quality comparable education throughout the country, whether it be a big city or a smaller town, whether it be the north or the south of Poland, and, secondly, to eliminate the adverse phenomenon - which is not detrimental to judges or prosecutors, but which is detrimental to citizens - the district break-up. If anyone has dealt with real law, with how the law works, he knows that the same rules are often applied in a completely different way in Warsaw, Tri-City, Krakow or Wrocław. And it's wrong, it shouldn't be like that. The citizen has the right to know what awaits him after entering the courtroom or the prosecutor's office, and the same rules have been applied divergently over the years due to local customs and traditions. The school was founded, among others. in order to introduce uniform standards and a uniform way of interpreting the rules, so that it is not so that the same is different in Galicia, what it means in the former Kingdom of Poland, and what it means in the area of the former German acquisition, because it is from that time still these differences arise. And if there is an education process where the applicant's basic point of reference is the local president or local prosecutor, it is difficult to talk about such a uniform role as a school. Therefore, we have not been fighting this evil phenomenon described in the literature of the subject and known to all countries for years, I think, the phenomenon of breaking up the district country. So on my side, that's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u367	Thank you very much, Minister, for this very long and comprehensive explanation. The discussion is closed... Member in corrigendum? You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u368	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I hope that these promises, in which you present such a vision, that the mutual interlacing of the influence of the school head and the Minister of Justice will have absolutely no impact on the future formation of the staff of assesors and judges in common courts, will come true. I hope this comes true because in the case of the D.A.'s office, it didn't work out. We're gonna watch this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u369	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory (print No 295). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki, to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this project is to create a legal basis, a clear legal basis for consenting to the residence of foreign troops, including NATO, in Poland, to strengthen the potential of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland and allow them to participate in military operations in the territory of the Republic of Poland during peace. This is the result of the experience of the last few years, of what is also happening next to us, on our eastern border, in Ukraine. These experiences show that conflicts of a new nature are often not the same as what was before, that they are often of such hybrid conflicts, conflicts under the pretence of internal differences within a given country, e.g. Nationalities, which may threaten us less, but one can imagine that this conflict can also occur in Poland. Therefore, our allies, as we have been thinking for several years about how to strengthen common security. And this is still the experience of the previous government, the work done at the Newport Summit, and later, where it has been established that such tools must be given and allies strengthened beyond the situations in which we use the article. 5 of the Treaty, because these experiences show that such situations can increasingly occur. During these analyses, the NATO Civil Planning Committee also pointed out that Polish solutions in this area, which are precisely concerning the rules of residence of foreign troops, are unfortunately not sufficiently precise to guarantee their stay, use, including the use of means of direct coercion or the use of weapons, in the event of such a conflict, but at the same time a situation in which these allied forces are to strengthen us. The work on the changes in this short bill was already taken for the previous government, the Civic Platform, and as it were, the Government of Law and Justice continued this work, so that the Allied Forces could be used efficiently to support the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. It should also be stressed that this process is relatively simple and allows for rapid consent to the residence of these troops. The Prime Minister of the Armed Forces, the President, at the request of the Minister for National Defence, agrees with the Prime Minister of the Government. It seems that this is the best solution that effectively allows the presence and use of these troops in the event of any threat. We therefore request that this law be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u371	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the amendment, as the Minister has already pointed out, is to create a clear legal basis for the approval of the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the Minister of National Defence, led with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers for the residence of foreign troops, in particular the Member States of international organisations such as NATO and the European Union, as part of the strengthening of the armed forces of the Republic of Poland in military operations conducted in the Republic of Poland during peace. In accordance with the President's statement, it is proposed to indicate the purpose of the stay and the scope of the powers, as well as other circumstances relevant to the defence of the Republic of Poland, indicating that foreign troops will be able to hold the powers which are available to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The changing security situation indicates that a potential opponent may cause certain conflicts seemingly indicating their internal character, with the intention of gaining time to gain a tactical advantage for the purpose of greater military operations and long-term assumptions of the gradual destruction of the economically and militarical country attacked, as we had in Ukraine for example, is referred to as the so-called. Hybrid war. In the current legal state, there is no precise provision in an act of ordinary law which would indicate the authority of the State empowered to decide on the appropriateness of use e.g. troops of the North Atlantic Pact or the European Union in the framework of military reinforcement for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland performing tasks during peacetime. There is also no regulation defining the scope of foreign military powers in such situations. The implementation of the proposed rules is necessary in view of the need to ensure full legitimacy for the possible operation by NATO troops - high readiness forces already in peace, when there may be a first need for readiness for action or action, and when there is no reason to initiate the collective self-defence procedure yet. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u373	Thank you very much. Now Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the very beginning I want to overthrow a myth about total opposition, because in this case we will vote in favour of this project. However, as the Minister said, this is a project developed by the previous government, or at least in terms of some assumptions, because in the case of security, we agree in this respect. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Improving and increasing the safety of Poles and Poles is an undeniable responsibility and responsibility of the Polish state. Especially in the context of the difficult situation in Ukraine, but also in the face of other conflicts in the world, this responsibility increases. The obvious guarantee of Polish security is the membership of the North Atlantic Pact and the European Union, but also wide, active and integrated cooperation with the Member States of the organisation. And that is the purpose of this change. The new law provides a clear legal basis for the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the Minister of Defence, led with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers. Here it is worth to add that it is actually the strongest fuse, because also the Minister of National Defence, and the President of the Council of Ministers, and the President of the Republic as the Commander of the Armed Forces are directly involved in this decision-making, so it is rather necessary to commend this mechanism. The above amendment also has two aspects: external and internal. In the internal context of the state that would send its troops to Poland, they must be fully aware that they can take action in our country only on the basis of the legitimacy and decisions of the authorities of the Republic of Poland, that is, the sovereign and independent state, and within the framework of national law. Such compliance with the amendments is guaranteed by this draft law. In turn, in the external aspect, it is worth adding, in fact, that no one doubts today that in situations based on the border of the military crisis, the demonstration of strength and willingness to act can be of great importance. To conclude, at least in this part, the above project serves to increase the security of Poland, to ensure its independence and sovereignty by strengthening the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. It also strengthens Polish relations with NATO and European Union countries, and it is so much needed today. In fact, Minister, the problem is not in this bill, because it is, objectively speaking, necessary. The problem is that today at the head of the national defense department is a man who is paranoid about some kind of paranoia, and Poland is a hostage to this paranoia. Today the military attaché sends information to their countries that the Polish Minister of Defence, who manages the 18th army of the world, intends to search for electromagnetic weapons in Legnica. Today, the biggest problem in defence policy is our credibility. A minister who can actually say in one sentence about bombings, flashes, explosions, terrorist attacks, and then, as if never said anything, that he never pointed to any reason for the catastrophe, in this case the Smolensk disaster, a minister who, at night using a crowbar, enters his center of NATO counter-intelligence, with all due respect, but should not be a minister of national defence. The bill, but credibility in this case is priceless. It is also worth adding to this the quality of our relations with other countries and the comments that Minister Macierewicz so often raises. In fact, it can be said that every time Minister Macierewicz mentions a country, it is rather in such a difficult context. Turns out this country may at least be offended. So this isn't a good idea for politics, foreign or defense. And as far as the bill is concerned, the Civic Platform Club will vote for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u375	Thank you. Anna Maria Siarkowska from the Kukiz club15 will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory. National security is a fundamental and existential value and need in the life of the nation. For you, it is a priority objective. It is also worth starting with some strategic principles in the discussion on this subject. General Carl von Clausewitz, one of the greatest theorists of war, in his centuries-old work on war, which is a biblical strategic military thought, indicates the scope of the state's means of defence. They are, of course, using modern language, operational troops, territorial defence, operational preparation of the territory for defence, civil defense and civilian support of the armed forces and allies. As we can see, allies are listed by Clausewitz in the last place among the State's means of defence. Their role is certainly important and must be taken into account in the construction of the national security of Poland, but can certainly not be considered as its basis either. Jan Nowak-Jeziorański, promoter of the Polish accession to NATO, pointed this out. He stressed that the commonly accepted safety criterion is its own defence potential, combined, of course, with alliance agreements, ensuring effective deterrent of the potential attacker. The risk of aggression must be high enough in the perception of the opponent to make it inefficient. He emphasized that Poland could only count on helping its allies if it wanted and could defend itself if it gained its own ability to scare away the attacker. These words, this strategic science remains valid until today. It is also expressed in the agreement of the Washington Treaty, for it is before the famous art. 5, which is an ally solidarity, is still an article. 3. It obliges the signatories of the Treaty to maintain, in addition to the collective, an individual ability to resist collective assault. For it is difficult to entrust your own safety completely to allies. It is also difficult to expect that when we are deprived of our own defensive abilities, allies will come to our aid and protect our own homeland for us. Therefore, we must not forget the need to build up our own deterrent abilities. The issue of allied support is only one of them. And that's what we need to remember. This amendment concerns the creation of a clear legal basis aimed at enabling foreign troops to carry out military operations in the territory of the Republic of Poland during peacetime. The President of the Republic of Poland is to agree to this at the request of the Minister of National Defence, with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers. In accordance with the President's statement, it is proposed to indicate the purpose of the stay and the scope of the powers, as well as other circumstances relevant to the defence of the Republic of Poland, indicating that foreign troops are to obtain the powers which are vested in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The need for amendments to the current law is due to a deterioration of the security situation in our region, as also indicated in the draft amendment. Indeed, the amendment will allow Poland to make quick decisions in order to launch NATO forces, even in peacetime, but only if - it should be stressed - when Poland considers it necessary. The Kukiz Club15 will, of course, support this bill, but at the same time we note that it is not the speed of use of force and strengthening NATO that de facto depends on the level of our national security. Our level of national security depends on our own defensive abilities. We ask the High House to remember that too. Let's rebuild territorial defense and operational troops. These are the two basic pillars of Polish national security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u377	Thank you. Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In expressing the position of the club Moderna, I would like to inform you that we are in favour of the proposed bill amending the law on the rules of residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. It is high time we sanction the issue of the defence of our country, especially since the situation in Central and Eastern Europe is still uncertain. As you know, all rights and obligations are based on a legal standard. It will be a warning instrument against a potential opponent, the point is that in the event of an attack by NATO troops, the European Union will have no restraint to counterattack its entire military base. From now on, the President of the Republic of Poland will approve, at the request of the Minister of National Defence, the presence of foreign troops, in particular NATO and European Union Member States, with the approval of the President of the Council of Ministers. It is the President who will determine the purpose and scope within which foreign troops will operate in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It is worth noting that these troops will have the possibility to function in principle as Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. To sum up, this is a very good change. The Modern Club is all for it. The Prime Minister's Government has submitted a bill, bearing in mind the information of the NATO Civil Planning Committee for the Extraordinary Threats, which recommended that changes be made to this issue. In view of the fact that the Government has decided to respect the opinions and recommendations of the NATO Committee, I would like to point out to the Prime Minister that this is a good reason for you to agree to the next international opinion of the Commission, the Venice Commission, and to publish the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u379	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u380	Miss Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are things that aren't open to discussion. The safety of Poland is paramount. It was good that the government took the initiative to regulate matters related to the stay of foreign troops in Poland during peace. This is the right direction. Indeed, both sides should clearly state the conditions under which these troops are actually stationed. I think that when it comes to these competences and the President's agreement, we could consider this because this agreement should determine the purpose of the stay, the scope of the mandate. I wonder if it would also be good to think about introducing a period, it is about how these troops would eventually be stationed in Poland. Of course, this period could then be extended. The question is, isn't that worth considering while working on the committee? Nevertheless, we believe that this project is right. We'll support him. As my colleague Cyranski has already said here, the Modern Club will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bejda, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law on the amendment of the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through the Republic of Poland introduced a clear legal basis according to which foreign troops will be able to conduct military operations in the territory of the Republic of Poland other than exercises during peacetime. In practice, they will be able to support our country if it is necessary to take preventive, dissuasive or requiring the use of high readiness forces in Polish territory or in the airspace of our country. The President of the Republic of Poland, at the request of the Minister of National Defence, after obtaining the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers, is to consent to the stay in Poland of foreign troops - mainly NATO and the European Union - in the framework of strengthening the military forces of the Polish Armed Forces in military operations conducted in our country during peace. In accordance with the President's stated purpose of residence and the scope of foreign military powers, and other circumstances relevant to Poland's defence are to be indicated. It was assumed that foreign troops would be able to have the powers granted to them by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The narrowing of the record to the time of peace results from the fact that during the war the ability of allies to use force in Poland is regulated by art. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. The introduction of these regulations is necessary due to the deteriorating security situation in the vicinity of Poland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. A changing geopolitical situation may force actions requiring immediate support of the Polish Armed Forces by foreign troops in a situation where there would not yet be grounds for launching actions pursuant to Article. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. This new regulation will be of great external and internal importance. In the external dimension it shows potential aggressors that in Polish law there are no barriers to the use of NATO or European Union troops in Poland. This should deter and discourage potential opponents from taking military action in Poland, since there may be a military response from the international community at any time. As far as the internal dimension is concerned, States sending their troops to Poland within NATO or the European Union will be sure to legitimize their activities in our country. The revised act will ensure effective implementation of the preparedness action plan in Poland, which allows military operations to be carried out by high readiness forces. It is about the possibility of using rapid response forces capable of responding within 48/72 hours, which requires clear and precise procedures to be introduced into national law, which does not raise doubts about interpretation. Mr. Marshal! Polish People's Party through the bill draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u383	Thank you very much. Four Members have asked questions. I close the list of Members who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. He will be the first to ask a question by Mr Norbert Obrick from the Civic Platform Club. He's not in the O.R. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk from the Kukiz club15. [[Sorry, I'm here.]] [[Oh, there you are, please.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Does the agreement referred to in the draft law concern the deployment of provisional bases or permanent foreign troops in Poland? Question two. How long before such consent is given? Is this time fixed in advance, or will it be determined separately for each military quota? Third: Does the Act provide for such consent in the event of the need for allies to enter Poland in a situation of sudden, surprising aggression? If so, how long does the President of the Republic of Poland have to decide in such a case? Is there a need for a compatible parliament for a longer stay in Poland? Should not such consent be required? And with regard to the added article. point 3a (3) is replaced by the following: determining the terms of reference referred to in paragraph: 2, the President of the Republic of Poland indicates which powers of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland will be granted to foreign troops, what should be understood by the word: powers used in the bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What documents are in force as a result of such a decision and do they refer to the NATO SOFA document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u385	Thank you very much. It was, of course, Mr Norbert Obricki from the Civic Platform. Now Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Cooperation with allies at military level is very important in the current geopolitical situation. We are facing an increasingly tense situation on the international stage. Conflicts are taking place near our borders. However, can leaving the decision to permanently relocate troops in Poland and give them powers in the hands of one person lead to abuse of these powers, especially in moments that are rare, but are it possible, when the commander of the Armed Forces is not the President, but the President? Why is Parliament's consent not required to decide on the deployment of foreign troops in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u387	Mr Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u388	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland in the added article. 3a creates, in my opinion, a clear legal basis for consenting to the stay of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland during the time of peace. Point 2 of this Article indicates that in agreement with the President of the Republic of Poland it is necessary to specify the purpose of the stay and the scope of the powers, as well as other circumstances relevant to the defence of the Republic of Poland. During peacetime, the situation can also vary. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: In the event of changing circumstances, will the President change the scope of foreign military powers each time? Are procedures in place so that the President can [[♪ The bell ♪]] react quickly to changing conditions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u389	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u390	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, I cannot fail to refer to what Mr Tomczyk said, which is not in the Chamber. But there are fellow Members of the House. I hope that they will listen and convey what I want to say because there are common issues in every nation that cannot share us. This joint issue is security, territorial integrity, independence of the state. Today we are talking about perhaps very short, it would seem, seemingly insignificant - but it is the opposite, very important - a law, perhaps one of the key laws adopted in this parliament. I am glad that there is agreement in the vote, but - I am talking to you, I am asking you to pass - there is no need to express my frustration with Antoni Macierewicz, with regard to law and justice, and unfortunately also with Mr Cyranski, I must say this - in the case of the Constitutional Court. We are politically different in these matters, and as for the assessment of the government of Beata Szydło you will probably have a different opinion for a long time, I hope that someday you will change it, but when we talk about such an important law, there is no point in having a dispute that does not concern it. Let's show that we all have cases that connect us. This is our security, our relationship with our allies, and let's not share it, because the consequences will be grieved. Maybe somebody can figure out that they're going to get 2%. or 3% more in the polls, only that we should be concerned that in the international arena, among our allies there should be a belief that these matters connect us, do not divide us, and we do not use other arguments in the public debate on these matters. I'm asking because it's really important. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: But it was for me?]] Yes, I am speaking to the Member. With regard to these questions that have been raised, I can say that yes, the law does not apply to the strict presence, but to the use of these troops, so it is the question whether it is permanent or continuous, it does not apply to this law, that is not what we are debating at this moment. As for the powers that these troops will have, the President decides and decides the rules of law generally applicable in Poland, the law. Another question that was raised here, as to the speech of the Sejm in this regard. The essence of this amendment, as you read it, is to be able to make a decision quickly, because so NATO forces are to react. These NATO forces are to respond within 42 and 72 hours. We all know that the debates in Parliament are long, that sometimes the convening of Parliament - hopefully never - can be difficult. The point is to be able to react quickly on a matter that does not raise our doubts about the substance, if, God forbid, ever occurs. And yet the Minister for National Defence, and the Prime Minister - this must be realised and always remembered - the factors chosen by us, all Members, I, too, am an MEP, and the inclusion in this decision-making process of Parliament would only unnecessarily prolong this procedure, make it difficult to act in this regard, and it is a matter of effective response in the event of a conflict that may suddenly arise. That is why I hope that this answer explains these doubts about Parliament's participation, which, after all, indirectly also has a role in this, is also informed about the use of foreign forces, and then maybe in this respect, if it believes that for some reason, which I do not believe, it is unreasonable to take concrete steps, not only debate, including consequences for these people. So I don't see any doubt here. If we want to act effectively, this must be done outside the parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u391	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska: Sorry, I would like another word, because the Minister spoke to me.]] [[The Minister asked for a transfer.]] The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory, contained in print No 295, to the Committee on National Defence for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Business Freedom Act (print No 322). I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Excuse me, Mr Marshal, but the Minister called me...]] But the Member did not take part in the discussion. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: But I wanted to say that I never said anything about Mr Macierewicz, so I don't understand why it was mentioned here, I don't understand why it was for me.]] Member, please leave the stand. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on which honourable Members discuss changes two things. It changes, firstly, in the Law on the Freedom of Economic Activity the amount - or such a level - from which entrepreneurs in relation to each other are obliged to pay non-cash. So far, in the article. 22 Law on Business Freedom This payment limit was set at 15 000. Euros. The bill changes it to 15,000. zł. The second change is an attempt to realise this limitation, this limit of payment, so that, in fact, you can say, this obligation to pay non-cash in relation, I remind you, the company - the company - was real and urged entrepreneurs to make this activity, these payments are made by means of a non-cash transaction. As a result of this bill, a payment which is not executed in a non-cash manner, but e.g. just cash, cannot be included in the cost of obtaining revenue. Why is that? What does it matter? Firstly, such solutions exist in many European countries, but first of all what is important is the gray zone, i.e. such an area of cooperation between companies, the scope of transactions between companies that are being settled in cash just to hide income in some sense, to celebrate tax law, to avoid paying taxes, because it's really hard to imagine that in a natural way entrepreneurs, you can say, would pay huge funds just by means of cash. We can usually expect it to be very interesting when these cash payments are paid in large amounts as handling transactions between companies. As a general rule, we assume that the introduction of this law will result in a reduction of the grey area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u393	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Janusz Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u394	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Ministry! I would like to present the position of the club on the Act No 322 on the amendment of the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on Freedom of Business Activity. Member States, this draft law contains proposals for a significant reduction in the value threshold of transactions between traders, after which payment must be made through a payment account. That's what's written in the amendment to the bill. I think it would have to be considered whether this should not be clearly recorded as a bank account or an account in the SKOK. We're talking about a payment account here. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill assumes a significant reduction in the threshold of 15,000. Euros up to 15 000 zł. This is not the first attempt, ladies and gentlemen, to limit the cash turnover, to settle these transactions. The designer assumes that this will reduce the grey zone, increase tax revenues, seal the tax system, clarify the costs of obtaining revenue as a sanctioning element, force small and medium-sized enterprises to make payments through a payment account. That's from the article. 22 Law on Business Freedom. Finally, the Projector announces that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2017. Ladies and gentlemen, the direction to seal the tax system is undoubtedly right, but the very right legal principles, as in life, sometimes have nothing to do with economic reality. We know that there are particularly sensitive industries: fuel, electronic, alcohol, tobacco, gold trade, gold scrap trading. These are undoubtedly those sectors where particular attention should be given. But we should, as some people say, pray for billions, not millions, because that's not where the 90 billion zlotys are running away. I think the VAT gap is about 40 billion, the CIT gap - from 20 to 40 billion, the smuggling of excise goods - about 20 billion PLN, together with online gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, on one truck in cigarette smuggling smugglers have 4 million zlotys of profit. 4 million on one truck. We learn that 20-person group, a dozen-member group on VAT fraud can earn 150 million PLN. These are the real sharks, there's the real coconuts. Recently, the media reported that 360 thousand were detected in Poland for the last year. false VAT accounts for the amount of over PLN 80 billion. These are monstrous sizes. It seems to me that this direction of a single control file or tax avoidance clause is right, it is necessary, but it is as if we are not pouring out a baby with a bath. Of course, it is worth pointing to the value of non-cash trading, but it is important to remember that the costs of banking services are rising, high in Poland, one of the highest in the European Union, and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs do not always use this online banking or mobile banking. So these good intentions do not always have to bring goals. It's the right thing to do. really with great thought. In my opinion, if you're fishing, it's real sharks, not fences. The scale of the challenges of sealing the tax system is really huge. For example, we will have issues such as the collection of late VAT. I would like to remind you that today we have 50 billion zlotys of late taxes. This must first be enforced, because with interest it is a giant amount today. Ladies and gentlemen, we also have a reform of the tax administration and customs, this integrated national tax administration. This will also have a significant impact on the volume of fiscal, tax revenue. Anyway, I think you have to be very careful with some excess fiscal cruelty. This is not necessary, although we do know that there are also problems in these small transactions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To conclude, I just want to say that I think that this subject is going to have to lean on the details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u395	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u396	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Government's draft law amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Business Freedom Act, print No 322. The Ministry of Finance intends to reduce the limit on cash transactions and introduce fiscal sanctions for non-compliance with the limits. Currently, the Freedom of Business Act requires the bank to account for transactions that exceed the equivalent of 15 000. The euro, but it does not provide for any sanctions. According to the plans of the Ministry of Finance, the limit of cash payments would decrease to 15 thousand. zł, and whoever does not comply with it, could not include the amounts paid in the cost of obtaining income. This would include both direct and indirect costs, i.e. those that are deducted over time, e.g. depreciation. A taxpayer who would have included the amount in the accounts rather than paid by bank transfer would have had to adjust the cost of obtaining income. I've got charges against this project. They're mostly about... The proposed changes will impose a burden on businesses likely to be disproportionate to the potential benefits. The authors of the project do not provide any data which would confirm that the cash invoices of several tens of thousands of zlotys were generally in practice a transaction document that did not take place. Analysis of the current case-law on fraud in the field of goods and services tax suggests different conclusions - that for many years these frauds have been carried out in relation to transactions cleared using bank accounts. This practice stems from the fraud carried out by the organisers, the intention to give the transactions an appearance of legality. The establishment of a bank account and the execution of settlements using the banking system do not constitute any barrier to criminals. It should be doubted that the tightening of restrictions on cash trading will actually contribute to the fight against fictional transactions. The authors of the project do not indicate how to tighten the obligation for entrepreneurs to use bank accounts to reduce the grey area. Indeed, for transactions carried out in the grey area, cash settlements are characteristic, but the essential feature of such transactions is not to properly document them. These transactions are therefore not documented e.g. by issuing a VAT invoice. It should be noted that this limitation will apply to expenditure which may, in principle, be included in the cost of obtaining revenue. It will therefore be expenditure properly documented, most often by VAT invoice. Thus, by nature, these expenses are not part of the grey economy. Therefore, the proposed reduction in cash turnover cannot be effective in combating the grey zone. Doubt that it is worth mixing tax law - accounting costs, expenses in revenue costs is one of the most complicated issues. When we add another formal condition to this, confirmation of bank transfer, entrepreneurs will have even more work. In addition to invoices, bank statements will have to be collected. It is also worth remembering the specifics of certain industries, especially in trade, where cash payments are on the agenda and do not surprise anyone. Additional administrative burden... I also wanted to add that this is to some extent a restriction on the freedom of business, a restriction on trading in cash. Changes beneficial to the banking sector - on the one hand, you introduce a bank tax, and on the other hand you eliminate the loss of banks to some extent by, for example, documenting transactions through transfers between banks. Another law and justice project aimed at entrepreneurs to some extent. Why is he targeted? Because it meets the negative opinion of employers' and entrepreneurs' organizations, such as Business Centre Club, the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers, the Union of Polish Crafts. I think this project certainly has nothing to do with the free market. To some extent, it introduces a veiled socialist approach to economic activity, to observing every expenditure, first companies and later people. I'm keeping up with these kinds of practices. This leads to bad things so that Big Brother can watch us and watch every transaction we make. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I do not recommend this project for further work, but I believe that if the Ministry of Finance presents real costs or real losses to the State Treasury, it is worth talking about it. This was not stated in the bill. I'm waiting in the Committee on Public Finances if this project is, of course, going to the Committee on Public Finances for this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] information on how this will affect the reduction of the grey zone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was, sir. It says there's no cost.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to quote this sentence: You must be a business partner. Today, the Prime Minister's advisors are largely analysts of large banks. With me on the Economic Council, if I become Prime Minister, there will be entrepreneurs, because there must be practitioners - Mrs Beata Szydło, July 2015. Dear Prime Minister, Today we read about an idea that brings nothing to economic life but further complicate the lives of entrepreneurs. I have no doubt that the idea of the Minister of Finance will end with the introduction of a repressive law and another restriction stemming from the Law on the Freedom of Business, a law after which there is basically only a title left. In a normal language, the whole change could be called this: it changes 15,000. EUR 15 000 zł and this is the maximum amount that can be settled between entrepreneurs without the bank. What's it say? I quote: The costs of obtaining revenue are costs incurred in order to achieve revenue or preserve or secure the source of revenue, except for the costs mentioned in Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, taking account of Article 1 15d. Does anyone understand anything? It's gibberish. It's our right. It's our right. It's our right. As for the whole thing, I say yes, the goal is as usual the same, we have to pay for the most expensive country we know. Today's idea of a law in its essence can be called thanks for the hard work of entrepreneurs, because it is suggested in gratitude that we are probably fraudsters. I quote the author: Invoices of tens of thousands of zlotys can in practice be a document concerning a transaction that did not take place. And I'll ask you, what do you care? This is a matter of invoice pages, not the Minister of Finance. Even if there was no payment, the invoice issuer's side is the income from which CIT is charged, provided there is, of course, income in the company. In the draft law, the applicant assumes an interesting accounting figure. We've already had bars in cars, and you know that we've been a model for the opposite of the world, and I've even heard jokes. And now we have another innovation. Let me give you an example. The method of payment determines whether something is at cost or not. If Mrs. Basia pays for the goods at the store of PLN 18,200, it's $15,000. zloty is a cost, and 3200 zloty of this amount is an income. Can it be complicated? Who benefits from this? First of all, banks. They're just asking for details in the descriptions. It's not about the whole transaction, it's about the details, because these are millions of operations that somebody's gonna have to pay for sometime. Of course, they'll be entrepreneurs. Therefore, in the main assessment of the originator of this law, it is stated that the State bears no costs. On the other hand, the whole is borne by the entrepreneur. They are fully aware of this because they wrote: On the basis of an analysis of the current market offer addressed to traders, it can be concluded that the amount of fees and fees for keeping accounts should not constitute a barrier to such accounts despite the proposed reduction in the payment threshold. So you are fully aware, you know that there will be costs for this reform, that it will not introduce anything new, and yet you continue to do so. I'm going to say that I was very surprised to note, although perhaps I was not surprised, the opinion of our accountants, to whom we pay thousands of zlotys a month. The Accounting Association in Poland made a positive assessment of the project due to increased transparency of transactions and a positive impact on the tax discipline of entrepreneurs. In the second point they went further, pointing to the extension of the proposed rules to payments made by entrepreneurs - even to individuals they propose. Well, dear accountants. To sum up, I'm going to say that this is another law that is redundant and complicates the life of entrepreneurship very much. Kukiz.15 does not take note of this project, we are absolutely against it. We do not accept the complexity of such a complex economic system. The treatment of entrepreneurs and industrialists as potential fraudsters is unacceptable, it is sabotage towards the Polish state. High Seym! Kukiz, 15 is already losing hope that anything good can come from here. We still have some remains of hope, but let's get real reform, let's not chase a rabbit, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's not look at Poland as a bunch of thieves. Let's just make a law we'll be proud of all over the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u399	Thank you very much. Now you will speak to Joann Schmidt from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Modern Club. The applicant shall request the application of the exemption mechanism in the Individual Income Tax Act and in the Corporate Income Tax Act for payments made in breach of Article. 22 Law on freedom of business, i.e. cash payments. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the limit of 15 000 payments. EUR 15 000 zł. This is a level that occurs in most countries of the European Union. The applicant argues in the explanatory memorandum that the regulations proposed in the Act will have a positive effect on the transparency of transactions carried out and, above all, on the increase of fair competition in business-to-business relations. The reduction of this limit should consequently contribute to increasing the revenue of the state budget by reducing the grey economy and reducing fictional transactions. What is the situation today? Accepting payments by traders in cash in excess of 15 000 The euro can bring on them a number of additional, burdensome obligations under the Anti-Money Laundering Act. The list of obliged institutions subject to the obligations under this law was added, among others. entrepreneurs within the meaning of the Freedom of Business Act. However, an important limitation has been introduced: only those entrepreneurs are obliged to accept payments for cash goods of a value equal to or exceeding the equivalent of 15 000. the euro, including where a charge for a specific commodity is made by means of more than one operation. An entrepreneur who does not accept cash payments for goods of a value equal to or exceeding the equivalent of 15 000. The euro is not an institution bound by that law and therefore does not have the obligations imposed by that law. Therefore, it does not need to register transactions, introduce internal procedures, train employees. It is therefore not worthwhile to accept cash at the moment, which is cumbersome, and therefore many obligations and severe penalties are imposed for non-compliance with these rules. Please note that the introduction of an obligation to make or accept payments related to the economic activity carried out through the entrepreneur's bank account of more than 15 000. zł gives rise to different opinions. The reasons we have been able to learn are the following: firstly, ensuring the protection of the public interest by preventing uncontrolled financial flows, secondly, preventing tax avoidance, third case, minimising cases of failure to comply with business-to-business relations. On the other hand, there is also a critical assessment of this obligation as it reduces flexibility in business-to-business relations. Certainly, the most important positive reason for reducing the limit is to reduce the cash flow, which is less subject to tax control. I'm going to call in statistics at this point that are missing in the justification for the bill. On the basis of research carried out by the National Bank of Poland, it was found that in general companies in Poland carried out as many as 98% of the transactions in a non-cash manner. This is the 2013 results, so we can assume that this percentage is higher. The aim of the project was therefore achieved by market forces, without the need for legislative interference. However, the applicant also pointed to the second objective of the Act, namely to increase the control of cash flows, which could result in an increase in revenue from taxable income. Again, this is not reflected in the numerical estimates of what the scale would be. And the facts are: in recent years, the process of ailment of the Polish tax system has deepened, which has become the most visible manifestation of which is the growing difference between the revenue to the budget, which could be expected based on the state of the economy and those actually reaching it. Estimates show that in 2015 alone, such a VAT gap reached the level of PLN 53 billion. It is harder to estimate the CIT gap than in the case of VAT. However, the trend is worrying here because in 2008 the budget revenue from CIT accounted for 2.8% GDP, after 6 years, only 1.7%. Of course, a large part of this decrease could have been caused by a deterioration in the business conditions or a decrease in the profitability of economic operators, but some are simply due to aggressive tax optimization. In order to achieve the purpose of the Act to a large extent, a profound reform of the tax system must be carried out, e.g. start by changing the VAT accounting principle, implement solutions such as the central invoice base, because this would allow [[♪ The bell ♪]] reduce VAT recovery fraud, which mostly creates a gap in the budget. The direction of the proposed changes is positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u401	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u402	The recommendation of our club is to direct the project to further work on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u403	Ms Genowef Tokarska from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the government's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax and the Act on freedom of business according to print No 322. The nature of the project submitted is to change the payment limit without using the payment account. This value is significantly reduced, because of 15 thousand. Euros up to 15 000 zł. This means that payments between entrepreneurs are more than 15 000. PLN, regardless of their number in one transaction, will have to be executed through a payment account. Transactions below this amount can be settled in cash. The proposed regulation will increase non-cash turnover and, in our view, increase the transparency of economic turnover and the real transparency of transactions. According to the government, it will reduce the gray area and thus increase the revenue of the state budget. This solution will certainly facilitate fiscal control of financial flows and thus improve the process of taxation of income and the correct recording of turnover for VAT purposes, which is quite important. The trend in reducing the value of non-cash trading occurs in most of the Member States of the Union, although they are not uniform in nature and the thresholds set for non-cash settlements are at a different level - from 1 000. the euro in Portugal to e.g. 5,000. Euros e.g. Bulgaria and Hungary. The government also proposes some tax arrangements in this project, which are intended to reduce the phenomenon of payment in breach of the provisions of the Business Freedom Act, i.e. excluding the payment account. Thus, both under the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act, taxable persons will not be able to include the costs of obtaining cost revenue in the part that did not occur through a payment account. Thus, taxpayers who make payments without a payment account will result in lower revenue costs and thus increase the amount of the tax liability. The revised statutory arrangements are to apply from 1 January 2017. High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of transferring the project to further work in the committee, although I would like to draw attention here to the constant crossing of good legislation by the law-makers. This draft was placed on the agenda of the High House only 3 days ago, on the eve of the current session of the Sejm, and the public consultation lasted only 10 days. This is an important project governing the law of all our businesses and certainly not everyone has had time to express their opinion. Business Centre Club and the Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers have critically assessed the draft law in question due to their negative impact on entrepreneurs and the economy, as well as the imposition of additional administrative burdens. On the other hand, the Polish Crafts Association, also critically evaluating the proposed changes, simply did not have time to comment on the deadline. I hope that those interested in the project will be able to comment on the committee's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u405	Thank you very much. Eight Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. [[One-and-a-half at least, Marshal. What can you say?]] Mr Adam Abramovich will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u406	Maybe we could ask for a minute and a half. [[Let's vote it out.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I urge you to consider these solutions in further work, because the proposed way of paying for transactions - when in Poland about 50% Poles, so shows research, does not know how to use the Internet, and in small towns there are no branches of banks - it will make business very difficult and additional costs. When it comes to effectiveness in Drinking and in Cita, more effective it would be the introduction of income tax, as the Ministry of Finance proposes for the yard. If something is good for the yard, it is equally good for any other company, and 100% This would seal the tax system with regard to PIT and CIT. As far as VAT is concerned, there are many entrepreneurs in Poland who are waiting for VAT refunds today, waiting even threatens to close companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And who are in a dispute with the IRS about whether this transaction was in accordance with the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u407	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u408	...or not. And they paid their contractors...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u409	Now the question is asked by Mr Norbert Obricki from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u410	...for transactions through a bank account, so that doesn't secure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u411	Mr President, end the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u412	...VAT before abuse. So that I ask you to consider this in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u413	Thank you. [[What can you say for one minute?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a 15,000-dollar limit. PLN is not, according to this project, adapted to Polish specificities. None is, among others. inclusions concerning transactions giving rise to consequences in state registers, i.a. about real estate or cars. This constitutes a de facto limitation on the possibility of carrying out legitimate transactions, among others. by importers of second-hand cars. Question: "How can you buy a car abroad from a private person - telling someone that they will wait for a car transfer and ask for it to be issued earlier?" The government will destroy, for example. imports of cars by legally acting entrepreneurs, thus indirectly promoting the so-called. The gray area. There can be no justification for the fight for disclosure of the taxpayer's transactions when other provisions require disclosure of those transactions in perpetual books or in vehicle records. It should be considered completely incomprehensible if, on the one hand, the taxable person does not have a tax cost in the cash payment situation and, on the other hand, for his counterparty, the same payment is a taxable income. Is the applicant [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have they considered such situations? [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u415	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Jerzy Gosiewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law in question proposes a reduction in the value threshold for transactions between undertakings, after which payment must be made through a payment account. A part of the opinion on this project relates to the bank account, and such a term is not in the draft law, whereas it is in the justification of the project. Minister, is the term "payment account" used in the Act identical to "bank account"? Should it not be allowed to check electronically recorded in an undertaking other than financial institutions? Shouldn't a reduction in the tax on goods and services be considered with the sealing of the tax system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u417	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Finance wants to reduce the limit on cash transactions from 15,000. Euros up to 15 000 zł, will also introduce fiscal sanctions for failing to comply with these limits. The aim is to control more money flows and reduce the gray area. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act we can read about a number of other countries in which such regulations apply. However, the designer calculated them slightly in a trendy way, because in as many as 12 countries of the European Union, there are no such thresholds. There is also no data that confirm the limitation of the grey zone in countries where such thresholds exist. For example, the big gray area in Italy is facing a limit of EUR 1 000 in cash transactions. I would now like to ask about the consequences of this regulation for micro and small enterprises and farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lot of them don't use the Internet, and the company runs in places where access to the bank is difficult. Does the reduction of the limit mean for these entities another barrier to doing business? Is this another good change made by the PiS? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But the PO wanted to bring it in a year ago.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u419	Thank you very much, Member. [[No, it's not. It's different.]] [[That was very funny.]] Now the question is asked by Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska from the Platform... excuse me, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister how much the effects of this law have been estimated. I'm talking about the financial consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u421	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The very idea of patching it up is often wrongly extorted government money, seems right, but instead of one left invoice for 50,000. zł Someone will display four different at 12 thousand. zł and as if it doesn't simplify anything at this point. I read it as a kind of eye-catching to banks that could lose a little bit on the bank tax, and now it's kind of a relief. Maybe that's a good explanation. We're gonna take a version of this, that the government's gonna make a deal and he's gonna be able to work with financial institutions. But I have a question: If the entrepreneur gives the other entrepreneur a thousand gold advances in cash, because he wants to buy a machine and the remaining 19 thousand. zł e.g. He'll transfer it from his bank account either the same or the next day, he'll be able to get the 19,000. and 1 000. You want me to book it for you? From what I can see, he won't be able to book any amount for that, because part of it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] was paid in cash.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u423	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I ask the question: When and when did the Minister ever talk to a small businessman whose company did not pay for the delivery or service, and for this reason the entrepreneur got into trouble and had an account occupied by the bailiff? At this point, paying in cash is the only chance for this man to last. It seems that the Members of the PiS understand this, hence the ambiguity of the presentation of the Minister and the votes of the Members of the PiS who feel better about the territory than you do. Please think about the kind of situations that will bear fruit because these people will lose their jobs and will also have to fire their employees because they will have no opportunity to pay them. I would also like to point out that the main problem is to find a formula for simplifying the recovery of debts for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that the signed contract and the confirmed invoice for receipt [[♪ The bell ♪]] services or supplies were the basis for simplified recovery. Thank you, sir, for nodding your head with understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u425	Thank you, sir. The question is now asked by Mr Jerzy Jachnik from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quick question. I wanted to know if you were going to take out nearly 800,000. companies that are on a roar or a tax card. These are people who pay cash in general, buying raw materials, otherwise they won't buy it. This is the first case. And two. If you are already introducing such fiscalism, I have another proposal - for you to introduce income tax on budget subsidies for political parties. That would at least be some real income. What the party gets from the introduction of Members is also revenue. Let him pay the tax. Thank you. [[But when you're crying, you don't need an invoice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u427	Thank you very much. [[How do you count it?]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Leszek Skiba, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the fruitful discussion. Indeed, it has shown on the one hand that Members are very concerned about entrepreneurs and public finances, but, on the other hand, I have the impression that it is not entirely understanding what is actually in this law, because it is important that the law concerns the relationship between the company and the company. So if we're dealing with a situation where someone buys a car from a private person, the bill doesn't in any way affect how this private person, buying a car, maybe... or how the company sells, for example. The dealer sells, agrees to sell a car to a private person, or the private person buys from the company - these transactions are not important in this respect and this law does not affect such operations. We're dealing with this... I mean, the second thing that's important, the second misunderstanding that's worth realizing. Does this law introduce, impose any obligations on traders in the sense that it imposes an obligation to pay for a transaction by bank transfer? If we look closely, you'll see, then no. It is worth noting that this law does not impose new obligations on bank payments because it does not impose a limit on non-cash payments. The Act changes the limit on non-cash transactions from 15,000. EUR up to 15 000 zł. It means that this duty has already been done. The fact that entrepreneurs are obliged to pay from a certain limit by means of payment operations has already existed, in fact this is not a new obligation in any way. So it is a certain misunderstanding that there is supposedly a new obligation on entrepreneurs here. [[But for many it will be a new duty in relation to this level.]] For some, it may be a new obligation, but in fact these non-cash operations are justified in many cases. It's worth looking at it differently, too. If the entrepreneur is actually operating on the market, I assume in a rational way that he has a bank account. So it's hard to imagine that we're dealing with a situation where we can think about an entrepreneur who actually accounts for taxes, does a lot of transactions, and we can say that we're imposing an obligation on him to set up a bank account. [[They pay at the post office.]] Of course. Since they can pay at the post office, I understand that sometimes it can be cheaper to pay through a bank account or a bank account in a window. So there are no new responsibilities here, and there really are no new problems with the business sector. And the fact that many countries have already introduced these solutions and have reduced these limits of non-cash payments is actually due to the fact that these actions are strongly justified from the point of view of public finances, but also a certain transparency in terms of company-company relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u429	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. A proposal to reject the project at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters (Prints 321 and 328). I ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u430	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Please accept the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. The Marshal of the Sejm referred the Senate's resolution on this matter to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We have two amendments in the Senate resolution. According to the Senate, the Act in its present form narrows down the number of entities entitled to bear lower judicial costs, providing that a relative fee of 5% the value of the subject-matter of the dispute or the subject-matter of the appeal - but not less than PLN 30 and not more than PLN 1000 - will concern claims arising out of banking activities carried out by the consumer or the natural person running the family holding. It should be noted that such a provision implies, first, that a lower fee cannot be used by entities other than those mentioned in the provision, e.g. banks, secondly, use of a lower comparative fee by the consumer (a natural person running a family holding) when bringing an appeal (a means of appeal) is only possible if they have initiated proceedings at first instance, suggesting the wording of the consumer's findings (...). While there is no doubt as to the adequacy of this provision in terms of obtaining the first of these effects - the elimination of operators with greater economic opportunities - it is not clear whether it was the intention of the legislator to distinguish between the amount of court fees incurred in relation to the consumers themselves (hosting a family holding). In view of the above, the Senate, when adopting Amendment 1, decided that the regulation contained in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The law on judicial costs in civil matters is intended to apply to the consumer (host of a family holding) whether or not he is the entity initiating judicial proceedings. Recognizing that it is appropriate to extend the catalogue of protected entities entitled to bear lower judicial costs in the case of the recovery of claims arising from bank operations, to those who generate income from non-agricultural economic activities and pay flat-rate income tax for this purpose, the Senate has adopted Amendment 2. Amendment 1 is therefore replaced by the words "collected from the consumer or the natural person in charge'. Amendment 2. - the words "family holding" shall be inserted after the words "family holding" or "profit-making" from non-agricultural economic activities and paying a flat-rate income tax. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this resolution of the Senate at its meeting on 15 March 2016, asks the High Sejm to accept the amendment in point 1, the amendment in point 2 to reject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u431	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. We support the main aim of the project to increase the protection of consumers and producers of family farms, which are charged court fees in matters arising from banking activities as referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act of 29 August 1997. Bank law. In a dispute between a consumer or an agricultural producer holding a family holding and a bank, there is usually a significant economic imbalance in the potential of the parties. Therefore, the position of the consumer and the agricultural producer is clearly weaker. The obligation to pay a relatively high court fee and the uncertainty as to whether or not to obtain an exemption from that charge is a circumstance which may discourage those entities from pursuing such cases. Therefore, in our view, these entities should be given powers that facilitate the conduct of legal proceedings arising from banking activities. However, there is no reason for banks and other entities to benefit from specific regulation. The entry into force of the proposed amendment will result in court fees being charged at the general rates. In line with the ratio of the amendment, we consider the Senate's 1st amendment, positively recommended by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, that the regulation contained in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The law on judicial costs in civil matters is to be applied to the consumer and to the household operator, regardless of whether or not they are entities initiating judicial proceedings. On the other hand, we consider it insufficiently justified, in particular at this stage of the legislative procedure, to extend the circle of entities entitled to bear lower judicial costs. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as recommended by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, will vote against Amendment 2 of the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u433	Thank you very much. Ms Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, contained in print No 202, taking into account the amendments of the Senate reported in print 321. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the Senate, adopting Amendment 1, decided that the regulation contained in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The law on judicial costs in civil matters is intended to apply to the consumer (host of a family holding) whether or not he is the person initiating the proceedings. The extension of the circle of entities does not lead to equalisation with the law. Every citizen should have equal access to courts and equal rights to participate in the process. By listing any entities, we come to a situation where some are favored and others are discriminated against. Let us remember that equality before the law guarantees an article. 32 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Everyone is equal to the law and has the right to equal treatment. It is therefore inappropriate to specify specific entities or institutions in the Act. Any party entering the proceedings shall be given the opportunity to apply to the court for exemption from the court fee. If this is the case, the right should be exercised. On the other hand, the preference of any party will only give rise to adverse consequences. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the opinion of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is the law adopted by the Sejm of its previous term of office in September 2015. In our view, the current bill leads to inequalities between civil actors and, consequently, inequalities between citizens and the law. We therefore conclude that, in the current wording, the draft law in print 202, together with the amendments of the Senate in print 321, does not deserve support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u435	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik from the Kukiz club15 will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I come to present the position of Kukiz15 on prints No 202 and 321, I would like to draw attention to another problem, i.e. the problem of the size of the judicial costs that occur in civil proceedings in Poland. These are among the most expensive costs in Europe. These costs are mainly paid by entrepreneurs or people who are not in a privileged situation, such as: employees in claims about ZUS. Then I cannot agree with the Member who says that the article is violated. 32 on equality, and this is because there are privileged groups, which pay costs in civil processes in a flat-rate form or to a lower extent. But I would also like to point out another problem, because I have the impression that you have not read print 202 well, in which the designers themselves write that in the case of individuals sued by the bank who later lost the process, it will mean that the costs of proceedings must be reimbursed at a higher level than in the current legal state. And here we have a trap, because on the one hand we pay these costs from 30 PLN to 1000 PLN, but because banks are no longer entities that are in a privileged position, so they will pay full costs, then when we lose the process, we will have to cover the higher costs of the bank. The civil process has to do with the fact that the losing party also covers the costs of the other party. Of course, there is an institution in Poland asking for exemption from costs, but this institution is completely arbitrary. Whoever you want, you get fired, who you don't want, you don't get fired. And that also depends to a large extent on the will of the courts. If this project were to fulfil its role, it would also be important to clarify the extent to which the courts are required to release a natural person, a consumer or a household. The Kukiz Club15 will leave it up to Members to support both Senate amendments or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Misilo has submitted his vote to the minutes. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the club of the Polish People's Party will now speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the Senate's amendments, while we would like to draw the attention of the projectors to one thing. In our view, the important fact in this regulation, namely, Article, has not been taken into account. 98 of the Civil Procedure Code, which states that the losing party has a duty to refund to the other party all the costs that this party has incurred. The claims made by banks in the vast majority of cases are undisputed. Therefore, in the event of a loss of the process with the bank, the consumer will have to return the entire fee paid to him on a general basis, i.e. a maximum of 100,000. zł. In most cases, the bank is the suing party. Another issue is what percentage of people losing a trial with a bank actually repays these legal costs. It's probably a minority. Therefore, with two evils it is better to set the upper cap of the charge at the amount of 1000 PLN for both sides as it is now. Less revenue to the budget, but under no circumstances will the consumer pay more than PLN 1000. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u439	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the government draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters and the amendments made by the Senate of the Republic of Poland to this Act. At present, the provision of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The law on judicial costs in civil matters shall read: "In the proceedings for claims arising from the banking activities referred to in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act of 29 August 1997. Bank law, the relative fee is 5% the value of the subject-matter of the dispute or the subject-matter of the appeal, but not less than 30 zlotys and not more than 1000 zlotys. It follows from the above that the relative charge in bank proceedings, regardless of the entity that has such a claim, is currently 5% , but not less than PLN 30 and not more than PLN 1 000. zł. The proposed amendment aims to abolish the so-called amendment. the preference of banks, but in fact abolishes the specific preference of the consumer. After the amendment, the preferential levy is intended to apply only to consumers and agricultural producers operating a family farm. Other entities, including banks, will pay a comparative fee on a general basis, i.e. 5% , but not less than PLN 30 and not more than PLN 100,000. zł. This appears to be a fair solution because consumers and agricultural producers operating family farms are generally weaker players in the market compared to banks. However, the proposed change has a weak but insanely important point. That is, what is the situation in which the action is brought by a non-privileged party, e.g. by a bank, against a consumer or an agricultural producer and this entity will win the case in court? The bank will have to pay the court fee on a general basis, so the maximum fee will be 100,000. zł. If the bank wins, the consumer will be obliged to reimburse the bank for the costs incurred from the amount of the court fee paid by the bank. After the amendment, the fee for consumers and agricultural producers will be 5% as above. the value of the subject-matter of the dispute or the subject-matter of the appeal, but not less than PLN 30 and not more than PLN 1 000. zł. So at the value of the subject matter of the dispute, 250,000. PLN 1 000 will be charged. zł, this will be the maximum amount of the fee. A fee for non-consumers and agricultural producers, i.e. for banks, it will be 5% the value of the subject-matter of the dispute or the subject-matter of the appeal, but not less than PLN 30 and not more than PLN 100,000. zł. If the value of the subject matter of the dispute is 250 thousand. zł, this court fee will then amount to 12.5 thousand. zł, which is 5%. The proposed amendment will therefore benefit the consumer or the agricultural producer only if the consumer or the agricultural producer brings the action. If the consumer or the agricultural producer is a party to the defendant's case and the process loses, he will have to bear the costs calculated on a general basis, without taking into account preferential rates. Ladies and gentlemen, this could be a dozen times more than it is today. In turn, when I read the Cosmetic amendments tabled by the Senate to this law, I am convinced that the Higher House of our Parliament requires at least a far-reaching reform. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern I would like to inform the High House that the Modern Posel Club will vote against the Senate's proposed amendments to this evil and unconstitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u441	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report by the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Family and Care Code (prints 320 and 335). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u442	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to submit a report to the Extraordinary Commission on codification amendments to the Act amending the Family and Care Code Act. The amendment is minor, albeit very important, because it converts the wording, the consistency of the word or word and, which in this provision, is of great importance in this regulation, because, as we all know, people interested in knowledge, the law concerns the limitation, drastic limitation of taking children to exceptional circumstances, to dramatic circumstances after taking advantage of all possibilities under the Family and Care Code and the Law on Family Support. And only the use of funds, both from this law and from the family code, should entitle to a possible replacement care under exceptional circumstances. The committee therefore requests the adoption of the amendment proposed by the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u443	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Bud from Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak. There's no acting on behalf of the club. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, on his behalf, by Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The PO has always thought that the best place for a child is a biological family, if it performs its care and educational functions well. We have reformed laws to support dysfunctional families with the help of family assistants, as well as the task of maintaining contact with biological parents and supporting them in their normal functioning. The project submitted cannot be a signal that social workers, curators and family courts work badly, that family foster care is bad. Poverty was not the sole or principal reason for sending the child to foster care. These 50 cases notified by the Ministry of Justice were presented without examination of the content of the judgments. We remember that poverty is not the result of other dysfunctions and never walk alone. There's a certain danger to the bill. The child's referral to foster care is to be preceded by the exhaustion of all statutory family support measures. The problem is that not all social assistance centres can apply all support instruments. We proposed an amendment to cover all available measures to support biological families. In the end, however, we support this project by trusting the wisdom of court and social workers. At this point, we stress the great value of foster families creating a good environment for the development of children without adequate family support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Three shifts were requested. One of them was accepted by the Senate. The second change was what you just mentioned, in order to make compulsory use of all forms of aid provided for by the Family Support Act and the foster care system. And the situation today is that this law will prohibit the taking, the taking of children from families because of poverty in the family, while it still discriminates against children because of poverty in the municipality, because if the municipalities cannot afford for example. As an assistant to the family, this form of help will be possible to give up. Another thing is in the last sentence of this law, this amendment, in the article. 112, which speaks of a child's life or health threat. There was a proposed amendment to add words about the immediate risk of life or health of the child. This amendment did not find recognition of the Senate committee. We think it would be worthwhile to get back to talking about it. I hope that happens. We consider the amendment to be very beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u447	Thank you very much. Now I ask Elizabeth Stępień from the Modern Club to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Things that concern the welfare of the child are paramount in the pro-family policy of the state. The child is to have a sense of security, belonging and love. The biological family has the task of fulfilling it, although it does not always do it. Therefore, the essence of our action is to do everything possible to get support. Being a parent in dysfunctional families is not easy and requires the necessary tools to coordinate the system support of parental responsibility, because the game is played for the highest stakes: the child's well-being. And that's why I enjoy the words of my previous speakers, who talk about family assistants, who from the very beginning I am in favour of doing a really good job. On one condition: a family assistant with a mission, absolutely. The amendment of the legislative provisions aims to minimise the possibility of errors in taking away parents' children and to maximise the involvement of appropriate assistance centres in strengthening the educational obligation of biological parents towards the child. Modern supports the changes made to eliminate any doubts about the interpretation of legislative provisions which consequently affect the decisions to place the child in foster care. The protection of children and their welfare should guide anyone who is responsible for carrying out their professional duties in the social service, and this is a matter of no doubt. Although it has not been possible to develop an ideal model solution to the problems that parents fulfil and play an educational role, it is important to look for such solutions with full determination, because ultimately the beneficiaries of this assistance are not politicians, but children. The role of the state should not be limited to populist actions and populist slogans, but an authentic desire to search for all opportunities to support families, because damage at this level cannot be valued, and this damage cannot be done in a generational perspective. This is actually a measure of our common political responsibility to society not only today but also tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u449	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas from the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u450	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Family and Care Code Act. Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Family and Care Code adopted on 11 February 2016 states that the placing of the child in foster care may only take place if other measures provided for in Article have previously been applied. 109 § Point 2 (1) (4) or all forms of assistance to the parents of the child referred to in the provisions on family support and foster care have not resulted in the removal of the risk of the child's well-being. The Senate introduced an amendment to the text presented in Article. 112. In § 1 or all words have been replaced by "and." This action indicates the need for the court to take account of the measures provided for in Article before the child may be placed in the foster care. 109 § Section 2 (1) (4) of the Family and Care Code or all forms of assistance to the parents of the child referred to in the provisions on support for the family and the foster care system. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party therefore supports the report presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u451	Thank you very much. Now Mr Waldemar Buda, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u452	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The idea of the project is obvious: to minimise the situations in which parents are deprived of their children, mainly because of poverty. The amendment, which was tabled by the Senate, is even more rigorous about this last resort, i.e. Makes use of all the possibilities for recovery and only in the last resort to apply this solution in the form of a replacement care. We have no doubt and the Law and Justice Club will, of course, be behind the Senate amendment itself and the entire bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u453	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 17 March. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the statement? No, no one's checking in. Thank you. I'm closing the list. There are six Members to make statements. Please, Mr Jacek Kurzepa of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members and Members, We are in order both secular and sacral - I say this on the eve of the holidays before us - especially those of us who, after taking the vow of the Message, raised an invocation to the Lord God. That's what many of us have done, and I realize that almost 70% This room where I found myself I, too, responded after vowing to the support and care of the Lord God. I am deeply involved in the life of the Church, I am proud to be a member of the Holy Community. Timothy, responsible among others for Stop Jesus, I am also a member of the Catholic Diocese of Zielona Góra-Gorzowska. So what? - there'd be disrespectful blooming. Yes, you can. I, on the other hand, invoke this institutional attachment with my Church, because by this I can bear witness to my faith. And although the Sejm is mainly an area of secular duty, my servitude towards my homeland and my fellow countrymen, I have come here with a Christian lineage, an experience of baptism, holy communion and confirmation. Therefore, built on these values, fully aware of them, I sink into retreat reflectiveness concerning, among others. what to me is the fact of Christ's torture, death, and resurrection. I'm talking about this from the Seym tribune, me, the secular tribune, and I'm fully aware of it, as well as the fact that as a mature man I can, I have to, I should constantly ask myself the existential and axiological question: How to live? And I have the impression that this question can also be changed into this formula: What should I be? As a man, as a politician, as a parent, as a father, just as someone who comes true in life? So the question is obvious to all of us, regardless of the age it has. Differences appear in the answers, although it would seem that since we come from the same cultural circle and experience of faith, differences should not be too significant. That is why I am invariably surprised that sometimes one doctor is honest, and the other is a catcher, that one teacher is a model, and the other an anti-hero, that one cook puts his heart into the art of cooking, and the other spitting into a chop that one Member serves and the other demands service. Why are we splitting up like this? When does this happen and where does it lead us? Too often through life, intellectual or normative laziness, we grow in pride, lack of humility, avoiding hardships and categoricity, becoming illegible, just as they are. I imagine that when we were young, we usually saw each other in a more noble portrait. What's going on? Why are we letting go of our desire for a youthful projection of what we were supposed to be? I don't want to blame others, but it's my life, and I have the power to shape it. Advent time, retreat time, yet another task to myself, proof of the reparation of evil, the sins that I have committed, I have committed. I know that many of us are deeply and deeply experiencing this time of waiting for a resurrection and should rejoice when Christ is resurrected. This example also leads us to our daily getting up from the dead, even if we do not talk to each other at home, I am tempted by another, as always the last, glass of vodka, I was unfaithful, treacherous, false to my wife, husband, I have done disgraceful gestures, lustful words, I have simply set a bad Christian example. How do I live? Are you willing to do something about it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, cling to Jesus'garments and follow him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u455	Mr President, you have run out of time. Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński. Mr President, how about in writing to the minutes?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u456	Mr. Marshal, you always get me to do this, and I always say I don't go beyond 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u457	Sure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Marxists of the Venice Commission use the same methods that were the domain of their older colleagues - Marxist scholars - who practice successfully in all demoulds: from North Korea and Cuba to East Germany. Like Marxist scholars: Soviets, Cubans or GDRs, they knew the outcome of their scientific experience before - to them - accession, and so did the Marxists of the Venice Commission knew the outcome of their diagnosis before they carried it out. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u459	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Teresa Nolas from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Member, in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government's draft law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury seemed so dangerous to PSL that on the day mentioned yesterday they organized a protest against this project. The right to protest for citizens and individual professional groups is recognised in the rule of law, and that is not the problem. Personally, however, I have a historical reflection that I would like to recall at this point. It so happens that PSL in the Polish state exercises power almost throughout the period after the transformation of the system, i.e. after 1989. It was another government with the participation of PSL that privatized our country, starting with the government of Waldemar Pawlak, after the night shift, when the gentlemen together with Donald Tusk counted and overthrowed the government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, then through the coalition of SLD-PSL, and finally 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL. The privatisation process started with privatisation of Polish banks. The banking sector has taken over foreign capital. Foreign capital also dominated the privatisation sector of the insurance industry. The most significant illustration of privatisation madness was the sale of shares, ownership papers, then the future of the sectors: mining and energy sector, steel sector, shipbuilding sector, pharmaceutical sector, telecommunications and even, ladies and gentlemen, spas. The first was privatized by the spa in my Lubelskie voivodship, Nałęczów, whose property rights were taken over by the Dutch company. The next was the chemical sector, the food sector, including the agri-food sector. And this is where sugar factories, fat plants, tobacco companies, the spirits industry went under the hammer. In total, PO-PSL was beaten by the record of sale of Polish assets, and it should be added that the proceeds from the sale were significantly understated in relation to the value of the assets sold. I don't have to prove how much we've lost as a state and a nation in this place. None of the rulers for this state of truth had any personal consequences. Today, when the current PiS government, after winning the elections, began to repair the state, the opposition from the finish line began to critically criticize everyone and everything. Presently, before the date of 1 May which frees Polish land trade for citizens of the European Union, the Polish government has developed statutory provisions to protect this land. As parliamentarians of all clubs, we are also responsible for this. It is therefore difficult for me to understand the particular attitude of the PSL club responsible for the country's agricultural policy over the years. It's hard to understand. This is all the more so in the comparison of the facts of the sale of the land on the so-called. poles, which consequently went into the resources of foreign companies. The attitude of PSL boils down to the famous words: Poles, nothing happened. On the other hand, it can happen after the adoption of the government proposal of the procedated law, because we already have announcements of both the PO and PSL to appeal the above to the tribunal. Objectiveism in every way, congratulations. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u461	Thank you very much. He is now making a statement by Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Territorial defence is a very important aspect of our country's security. It is precisely individuals of this type that would play the most important role in the face of armed conflict and could move quickly to irregular activities. The strength of our soldiers is demonstrated by the actions of Polish guerrillas during World War II. In the concept of defense of the country, the OT unit, in the strength of the company, and then the battalion, is to be established in every district. There are also more and more uniformed classes in schools or shooting units. All these organizations raise and prepare young people, but not just young people, to defend the country. In the face of growing threats, such as conflict in Ukraine or terrorist threat, Poles should be able to use weapons. That was what was very important during World War II, a much larger percentage of the population knew how to use weapons. However, preparation for arms handling should take place under controlled and safe conditions. The cost of building a shooting range is very high. However, there is another solution. Mechanical plants in Tarnów produce container shooters. These are modern and professional solutions that they use, among others. Special Forces. It is a mobile shooting range, so it allows training in a given area, and at the same time it is cheaper than the construction of a shooting range. The cost of this shooting range is about 700,000. zł. In Poland we have 314 powiats, the cost of building a shooting range in each of them is 219 800 thousand. zł. In five years, it is the sum of about 44 million PLN per year. It is a sum that represents a budget of at least a small municipality of Proszowice, and on the scale of expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence is about 1.2% expenditure planned for 2016 On a national scale, this is not a huge sum, in return for improving the awareness of citizens, their ability to use weapons will be better, and thus their ability to defend and protect Poland. It is also a huge opportunity for Mechanical Works in Tarnów and the Polish Armed Forces Group, which should provide solutions and weapons for territorial defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u463	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Barbara Dziuk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. How about the minutes, Member? You'd rather read it. [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The declaration concerns the situation of spas, breaches of Article. 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland by local governments, where the Civic Platform is currently in power. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, thanks to the leading role of the PO, we have seen a new social division. Very simple: the poor and the rich. This also applies to medical care, including sanatorium care. Public sanatoriums are first brought down, and then sold for a symbolic gold to the right people, turns into a spa, not to mention that they have been renovated for taxpayers' money before. For many years in my interpellations I have repeatedly addressed the members of the board of the Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship with questions concerning e.g. principles of privatisation of hospitals, sanatoriums and spas, e.g. in Rabka, Goczalkowice. Now I read in press reports in Silesia about trying to quickly sell several spas and hospitals, for which I quote: PiS will not forbid us. Many times I received an answer to my uncomfortable questions: We have to privatize because they are long and there is no money. You'd like to shout out the question, "How do you rule with the POs?" If you don't have any money, then you're not fit to rule. Why do the authorities that have been given a social mandate in the last elections in the local government to manage - I stress: governance - state property - allow debt from which health institutions can no longer come out? I have a right to know and ask if debt is intentional. Are people on social councils random? Very interesting is the correctness: there are councillors in the Silesian Seym, who lead to transformation into companies with the participation of the marshal. Coincidence or deliberate action? Are hospital and sanatorium directors selected to prevent or even create debt, pathology? Are local authorities, or rather their members, equally carefree in managing their private property? The debt of any state institution is the responsibility of the authorities with control bodies capable of countering financial disasters. If this is not the case, then there is a suspicion that debt is intentional. Such actions are actions to the detriment of the region and as a result of the state, i.e. all of us. It would probably be no problem if the directors and presidents of the institution had to take responsibility for their decisions with their own assets; nothing disciplines as much as the threat of losing their own money. It's not a new proposal. Before the war, directors were responsible for their life's income or failure. It's an institution. The problem of Silesia, and not only, is not the lack of control institutions, but their inertia. They hang in a vacuum and don't enforce their rights. Nobody's checks have been unbelievable for many years, and they put important comments in their protocols that hang in the air, no one learns from them and consequently. This particular provision is treated as low social harm. I urge you to take special care in the first place in health resorts, hospitals and health care facilities for children. Stopping privatisation is particularly important here. All children have the right to stay in comfortable conditions, not just the children of rich parents. Ensuring that children stay under the right conditions, a system of financial, medical, dietary, health and safety rules and education should be rethought, reorganized, and the lack of care for the youngest should be characterised by much heavier burdens and penalties of all kinds: from financial to job losses and jobs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u465	Thank you very much, Member. The last statement is made by Catherine Czochar of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 23 June 2015, the Management Board of Opole Voivodeship, the owner of the company Suchy Bór, by resolution of the Sejm, liquidated the only rehabilitation and treatment centre in Opole for children - in Jarnołtówek. This facility has worked perfectly for over 50 years. On the monthly rehabilitation tournaments there were an average of 60 children, giving 1 000 per year. curates from all over Poland. The resort, commonly referred to as Aleksandrówka, is located in the Opavian Mountains, in an extremely spa-friendly climate. The specific microclimate of the Jarnołtówka corresponds to the standards adopted for the health resorts of Central Europe - the 2002 PAN study. The Aleksandrówka was built in 1890 and is entered in the register of monuments of Opole. For more than 40 years, no major renovations have been carried out in the building, no EU funding has been used and no funds from the Natura Foundation. In the attic of Alexandria there is a breeding colony of a small horseshoe. The Foundation proposed to finance 90% of the roof renovation in exchange for the maintenance of the colony. The Marshal's Office in Opole, the owner of the company, did not take advantage of this proposal. By 2014 the company had a positive balance sheet. Despite the surplus received, the funds were not invested in renovations and furnishings of the building, but were collected on the bank's premises. At the Aleksandrówka Centre there was a team of special schools, which received over a million grants from the Ministry of National Education. After the closure of the centre, 35 people lost their jobs, including 13 teachers who had been certified and appointed for an indeterminate period, who did not provide employment by the school's head office in Nysa. The workers lost their jobs, and the patients were deprived of treatment and rehabilitation in the mountain microclimate. Until May 2014, the facility had a 100% contract of medical services with the NFZ. I would like to point out that in 2010 the then president of Tomasz Ganczarek received a letter from the NFZ indicating the need to equip the facility with the necessary rehabilitation equipment, i.e. centrifuge of the lower and upper limbs and cryotherapy apparatus - the value of this equipment is about 40,000. zł - to maintain the contract at the current level. Due to deficiencies in rehabilitation equipment and inadequately prepared competition offer to NFZ, Aleksandrówka received only 18% the previous contract. The amount of the contract received became the main reason for the decision by the Management Board of Opole Voivodship to liquidate the above mentioned. outposts. Following the decision of the Management Board, Aleksandrów's employees took protest measures, publicising the situation in the media, intervening with the Ombudsman, the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, Members and Local Government. As a result of these actions and the fact that it was the electoral year - local elections, 2014 - the liquidation process was stopped. Tomasz Ganczarek ceased to be President of the company on 31 July, but kept the position of President of the company Zamek Moszna - Mr Tomasz Ganczarek managed two companies at the same time. Since 1 August 2014, the Management Board of the Opole Voivodeship has appointed Mr.Suchy Bór Stanisława Łągiewka as President of the Company. Until 31 July 2014, Mr Łągiewka served as Director of the Health Department at the Marshal's Office in Opole. I would like to add that on 1 August of the same year two posts were created in the office of Marshal Roman Kolka, who is responsible for health care in our voivodship. These positions are a social policy proxy and a coordinator at the Marshal's office. Mr Stanisław Łągiewka took the position of President at the same time as Mr Stanisław Łągiewka. The new President has not taken any corrective action [[♪ The bell ♪]] in order to rescue the Alexandrówka centre, and since September last year the Aleksandrówka building is empty, it is intended for sale for an amount of 560 thousand. zł, without the form of tender.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u467	Madame, you have run out of time for a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u468	The valuation of an independent valuer is 1.6 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u469	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 17, 1918, and thus exactly 98 years ago, in Kozice near Sands, war. Lubelskie, born Józef Franczak ps. Dude, ZWZ-AK soldier, the last Polish guerrilla who worked in anti-communist conspiracy for 24 years and died from the ZOMO bandit bullets on 21 October 1963. Józef Franczak fought in the September campaign in 1939 at the Kresy. He was arrested by the Russians, but escaped from captivity and joined the Home Army. Since 1947, he has been commanding a patrol in the WiN squad. Zdzisława Bronski, who was ambushed in 1948. He executed sentences on safe-keeping confidants, among others. Those responsible for the deaths of the commanders of the troops Lew and Uskok. Since February 10, 1953, he has been hiding alone with over 200 colleagues. He wanted to come out after October 1956, but he was facing life imprisonment. He had Mark's son with Danuta Mazur from exile. He spent it - for money - Uncle Danuta's brother, a secret collaborator of the SB Michael. On October 21, 1963, in Majdana Kozic Górnych, he was killed during the SB and ZOMO raid. With his head cut off by security, he was buried by his family in Sands. It was only in January 2015 that investigators from the Institute of National Remembrance found the skull in the collections of the Medical University of Lublin. On March 26, 2015, a third funeral was held in Sands, which was held in the assistance of the Garrison Command Warsaw. On 17 March 2008, the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński posthumously gave the Commander's Cross to Józef Franczak with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. Józef Franczak was awarded for outstanding merits for independence of the Republic of Poland on the 90th anniversary of his birthday. His son and Danuta Mazur - Marek Franczak, who was given the right to bear his name after his father only in 1992, had previously used his mother's maiden name. Hello and praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u471	Today in Podkarpacie a historic event took place, the President of Poland Andrzej Duda solemnly opened the Museum of Poles Saving Jews to them. The Ulm families in Markowa. It's the first such museum in our country. It is a commemoration and honor not only of the Ulm family, but of all Poles who, putting themselves and their families in danger, saved their Jewish neighbors. This museum is a demonstration of the truth about brave Poles who showed a huge heart, helping Jews during World War II. The Ulm family paid the highest price for this aid - life. Poland must expose such people and such attitudes to the whole world, so that the truth about the heroism of the Polish nation during World War II reaches others. The drama of this great family took place on 24 March 1944. Five German policemen and policemen arrived in front of the Ulm house that morning. They were led by the league. Eilert Dieken. First Jews were murdered, then Joseph and Victoria, who were seven months pregnant. Then Dieken decided to kill the children. 17 people lost their lives. The Ulm were buried at the cemetery in Markowa, while the Jews were buried at the cemetery in Jagielle, the burial site of 41 other victims of the Holocaust from Markowa. In about 4.5 thousand Markowa Ulms were not the only family who hid the Jews. At least 20 other Jews survived the occupation in five peasant homes. Before World War II, about 120 Jews lived in Markowa. In 1995, Victoria and Józef Ulm were honored posthumously as the Righteous Among the Nations of the World, the Israeli Yad Vashem Memorial Institute. In 2003 their beatification process began in the Diocese of Przemysl. In 2004 a monument was unveiled in Markowa, which reminds us of these heroic people. In 2010 the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński awarded them with the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. The decision to build the museum was made by Sejmik Województwa Podkarpackie in 2008 and there is a need to show facts - to a large extent unknown - indicating the participation of Poles in the rescue of people of Jewish nationality in conditions where the hiding of Jews by Poles was rigorously prosecuted and, unlike occupied Western Europe, punished with death - we read in the resolution of the intentional museum adopted by the Sejmik Województwa Podkarpackie. On 500 m2 the Ulma house was reconstructed and an exhibition hall, lecture hall and a science studio were created. The construction was officially started on 8 October 2013. The construction was completed in the first half of 2015. The project's cost - as stated at the conference - is 8 656 437 PLN, of which 1 million was transferred to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and 1156 thousand PLN. zł were the own resources of the Museum - the Castle in Lańcut, whose subsidiary is the facility in Markowa. The remaining amount of PLN 7 541 437 came from the budget of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship. The plot was transferred free of charge to the municipality of Markowa. It is impossible to thank all those who joined in building this place of memory today. The thanks are due to the current Marshal of the voivodship, Mr Władysław Ortyl, the entire board of directors and the councillor of the current term of office, but also to the term of office of 2006.2010. Today, before the opening ceremony of the museum, there was also a ceremony of giving national awards to Poles saving the Jews. The award was given by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. I am honored to be able, on behalf of the Republic of Poland, to thank all of you - these heroes, their closest ones, those who immortalize the memory of these extraordinary acts. Thanks to who you and your loved ones turned out to be, thanks also to this, the Republic can be proud today - thanked the decorated president. And then: Today I had the honour, great for me as a man, following the footsteps of President Lech Kaczyński, to mark those who did not close the door, who opened it widely and said: 'Come, we will manage', knowing what this threat is. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today Poland paid tribute to the great family and all the brave Poles. Each of us must visit the museum, and the memory of the Ulm family must be passed on from generation to generation. On 500 m2
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-17-sejm-14-2.u472	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 18 March 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 minutes 29]]
