ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u1	Resume session. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would like to call on my fellow Members, Mr Kubov, Mr Marchewka, Mr Sobonia and Mr Truskolas. The first part of the session will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Arkadiusz Carrot and Artur Soboń. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 9.10. - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development in cooperation with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 10, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10.20, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 13.30, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 13.30, - Justice and Human Rights together with the Commission for Energy and the Treasury - at 3 p.m. 14, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Sports bridge - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Supporting the implementation of Central European Logistics Centre in Łódź - hour 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: The Challenges of Democracy of the 21st century - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Scouting Friends Team - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: The future of the European Union at 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Jointly with the Parliamentary Panel on Health Protection Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Police - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting, away meeting - departures at 3 p.m. 16.45 in front of the hotel, - Parliamentary Group for: Dialogue and Social Communication - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 18, - Parliamentary Team of History and Tradition of the Polish Army together with Parliamentary Team of History Lovers - hour. 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u3	Thank you. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft resolution on the commemoration of Stanisław Mikołajczyk on the 50th anniversary of his death. The design is 1147. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted reports on draft resolutions: - on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of the 300th anniversary Coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa, - on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the death of the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz. The reports shall be printed in Nos 1142 and 1123 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these points he listened to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Do I hear an objection? I don't hear any objections. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on agricultural and livestock insurance, - amending the Act on agri-food promotion funds, - amending the Law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in No 1132, 1133 and 1131 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on gambling and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. The reports shall be printed in Nos 1125 and 1146 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted an opinion on the appointment of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The opinion of the committee is in print No 1135. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including consideration of the matter. We proceed with the examination of item 39 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on commemoration of Stanisław Mikołajczyk on the 50th anniversary of his death (print No 1147). I inform the High House that the Sejm Bureau presents this draft resolution in agreement with the Seniors' Convention at the request of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. I ask Members to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemorating the memory of Stanisław Mikołajczyk on the 50th anniversary of death On 13 December 2016, the 50th anniversary of the death of Stanisław Mikołajczyk, statesman, leader of the Polish People's Party, Prime Minister of the Polish Government in exile passed. Stanisław Mikołajczyk belongs to the group of Polish politicians for whom free, independent, just and democratic Poland was the highest good. With his life and his work, he gave this unmistakable evidence. In the years 1918-1919 he participated in the Wielkopolska Uprising, and in 1920 as a volunteer he participated in defending his homeland during the Polish-Bolshevik War. In 1937, he led the Great Boy Strike against the authoritarian government of sanation. He also fought for independence in 1939. As Prime Minister of the Polish Government in London, he sought Poland's rightful place among the free, democratic peoples of Europe, not always finding understanding and support among his own politicians and allies. After the war he returned to the country and headed the Polish People's Party, which sought to build a state based on social justice and governed by the authorities elected in democratic elections. Full of faith in the better future of Poland became part of the Provisional Government of National Unity, recognized by the Allies as a representation of the nation. This government was intended to combine different political environments for the reconstruction of the country. Mikołajczyk lost the fight for democracy with communist totalitarianism. Forced to leave for exile he continued to fight for free Poland. He was always faithful to his beliefs. On the 50th anniversary of the death of Stanisław Mikołajczyk, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the leader of the folk movement and defender of democracy. I ask Members to adopt a resolution by acclamation. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on honoring the memory of Stanisław Mikołajczyk on the 50th anniversary of his death. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Member Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request that the Sejm be adjourned until the item is placed on the agenda: Information from the Prime Minister on the liquidation of mines, jobs in Silesia in connection with the decision of the government to merge Katowice Holding Węglowy with the Polish Mining Group. There are protests in Silesia, Prime Minister. [[You guys are being instigated.]] The miners and their families want to hear what awaits them. The miners and their families want to hear what you've prepared for them for Christmas. Today in this gallery hall are miners from Makoshov mine, miners who do not [[Applause]] They know what their fate is, what they're gonna do. What's changed, Prime Minister? On 22 January 2015, words came from this tribune: I know, because I took it out of my family's house, how much the miner's work is worth, and how the miners approach it, to the mine. For us, inhabitants of mining municipalities - inhabitants of Silesia - the mine is the mother of the host. Even those who do not work in the mine know very well that this is a work facility that also gives them and earn them, gives them wages, gives them food. And today, those entrepreneurs who work with the mines are worried about what their fate will be, how the mines will cease to exist. Prime Minister, what's changed since then? Have these words lost value today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u5	First of all, I would like to inform you that you have made an extra-regular appearance, because this is a proposal. on the agenda to be submitted to the Seniors' Convention, and earlier, before the beginning of the Sejm meeting, not on a formal proposal, because this only concerns matters already on the agenda. So, in the future, please remember that there is a difference between these kinds of proposals. But in this case, the Minister wanted to appear... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: It is first the Member and then me.]] Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz club15, also with a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to clarify the situation concerning the Makoszowy mine, but the situation in the Makoszowy mine, which was still under the leadership of the Platform coalition... [[Voice from the room: Bieruta.]] ... Citizen and PSL. The lack of memory of an MP with the speech leading up to my statement is that... [[What happened?]] ...is unable to notice that Makoszowy mine was transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mine, which is, in other words, an institution that closes the mines, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL. They gave this mine to themselves. [[Applause]] For the liquidation, and now you're defending her? It is cynicism, cynicism, and a lie again. There's nothing else I can say about it. Thank you very much. [[PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u7	Okay, just... I thank the Member for this information, but I would like to point out that we should not start a debate on this, because this is not the subject of a formal proposal. [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down. Minister or Minister, because a representative of the government has the right to speak at any time... Yes? Here you go, Mr. Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Minister of Energy, Deputy Minister. [[But he's asking a question, too? A formal conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's an Advent miracle going on right in front of our eyes, because after eight years... [[Voice from the hall: Just wonders.]] ...at a time when there is a government of law and justice, a colleague of Krzysztof Gadowski, representing the Civic Platform, talks about the concern about the hard coal sector, when we all remember [[Applause]] ... [[Stop lying.]] ...when mining was left behind last year, when there was no money for Barbórka, and 13.5 billion was in debt. [[And today?]] It's a reminder. And today, sir, today, the first one is Makoshowy. [[And you guys are shutting down the mines.]] Thank you, Mr President, for this information that you want to hear what was signed on 17 January 2015. We're trying to pass it on to the media, but this confusion, this chaos, this whining makes it hard... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Arrogance.]] [[Lies.]] Even in the Seym it is difficult to speak calmly so as to be heard, because some do not want to listen. [[You have to have knowledge.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, we know the truth can sometimes be painful. 17 January 2015 - an agreement between the government and the social party saying in point 1 that restructuring work will be carried out, there will be a repair programme for the following mines: the Piekary mine, the Bobrek-Centrum mine, the Centre goes to SRK, i.e. to liquidation, then Sośnica-Makoszowy will function, the Makoszowy district for liquidation, then KWK Brzeszcze will be covered by the restructuring process. As we know, it was bought by Tauron. [[Nobody's gonna lose their jobs.]] And in point 4, which is very important, representatives of the government together with the social side on 17 January, I will remind you, 2015 and throughout 2015 was the PO-PSL government, sign that there will be a restructuring recovery programme and, please, you will not find any document that such a programme was created. There isn't. [[Don't lie to me.]] I want you to look at the papers at the Ministry. [[Voice from the hall: Kowalczyka ask.]] Next, in point 4, it is noted that everything that will happen under the resolution programme will be based on the Council decision of 10 December 2010. What does this decision say? This decision says, ladies and gentlemen, that mines can be disposed of using public aid, but the restructuring process is closed. And at the Council meeting he did not then go to the then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Rostowski to take the floor. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] The decision, ladies and gentlemen, has become final, and from now on, we can only... [[Voice from the room: Louder!]] ...in SRK to liquidate, and with the use of public aid we cannot restructure. [[That's not true. Your restructuring is only personal.]] [[Thieves...]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is in point 4. In point 10 of that agreement... Everyone says that there were investors, that Makoszowy supposedly had an investor, then, I want to tell you why in point 10 of this agreement there is a record that if there is no plan for acquiring, with an investor, it will be the allocation of employees to other mines? Tell me what's the point of this, when I have an investor to take over Makoszowy, that then I say that if it doesn't work with the investor, then all the employees will have jobs. And I want to say yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask for your vote.]] As you know, what was public aid...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u9	Minister, if you could just... [[Tell the miners.]] [[Don't interrupt.]] ...reduce your speech because we are on a completely different agenda. So that I would very much ask you to conclude. [[What's this?]] A government representative has the right to speak at any time, but I would ask that... [[Voice from the Chamber: We want a debate, then let's have a debate.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Ladies and gentlemen, public aid is that it is not possible to increase spending in the SRK every year, but to reduce it. [[Mr. Marshal, we need a debate on this.]] I'm almost done, sir. What happened? [[Don't finish.]] In Makoszowy we spent more in 2016 than in 2015 and the trade unionists went to Brussels to report it, which made Brussels aware that we were not fully implementing the assumptions of the previous government regarding the liquidation of KWK Makoszowy, because we, this government, Makoszowom gave a chance. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Yes, of course, time will tell.]] And with the notification, ladies and gentlemen... That's why, marshal, that's what I'm talking about. [[Applause]] that we have great hypocrisy, chaos and confusion introduced to the public. The European Union, giving us notification, stated that if the previous government decided to liquidate by agreement, we are to implement these assumptions. And, ladies and gentlemen, let it sound to the whole of Poland, all employees of KWK Makoszowy have a job offer, more than 1000 people, no one will lose their job, everyone has, in Knurowo-Szczygłowice in PGG, all of them. [[Time will tell.]] What happened? [[And the mine will be destroyed.]] [[What is it, marshal?]] Therefore, inspirations include: A fellow Member of the trade union has blocked places where blanks can be returned to the mine. This is the phenomenon through this confusion and misleading the public. [[What is this point? I don't understand, Marshal.]] Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: And to conclude, ladies and gentlemen... That's right, Minister. [[Sit down. Time will tell you who's lying.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Prime Minister, please, calm down. About Katowice Coal Holding... [[Stop lying.]] ...is the debt we encountered when we took over, that's 2.5 billion. And all the employees will be transferred if necessary, because we want to connect PGG to KHW to save jobs. [[Time will tell.]] Because in our governments we have job offers, no one will lose their jobs. [[In your reign, everyone has jobs...]] And that's the problem with the state because you can't prove that we're developing mining, and you're trying to eliminate it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum. You started the debate. It's impossible for me to...]] Ladies and gentlemen, no, no... Mr President, please leave the speaker. Mr... Give me the rule book... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[But there has to be equality between sides.]] [[What's that even?]] Please leave the podium. I inform the High House that the case... [[But he's already left...]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Gadowski, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are currently interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Sit down.]] Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: I'm calling you into order. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Thieves.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Liquidator! Liquidator! Liquidator!]] On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 I would like to state that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to react harder. I was looking through my fingers at the behaviour of four members of your club. [[Control the situation.]] That's the financial impact. [[And look at yours. ♪ On your own ♪]] [[But why the fingers?]] Well, unfortunately, I'm a liberal. in this respect. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You have to look at your own.]] But I guess this time will have to stop. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the mining issues... this case you have been talking about here, will be or will be the subject of an energy committee meeting, because I have referred this matter to the committee. If the committee considers that a debate should be held... [[It does.]] ...please, at the next session of the Sejm, this item will be included on the agenda. Secondly, in one of the current questions, this subject is also included, so I invite you to listen to the Minister's speech and answer to these questions. Before I give the floor to Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, please come to me and tell me what is the point... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No. What do you do? Some kind of private farm.]] Mr President, what is your proposal... [[The pharmacies bill you sent to the deregulation committee yesterday.]] But, sir, this is not the subject of this meeting. [[But it's a formal conclusion.]] Then make a formal application in writing. [[I want to file a formal motion.]] [[This is a scandal, Marshal. This is an outrage.]] Let me remind you that the formal proposals... [[I mean, yesterday's martial law...]] ...can only be reported on matters... which are the subject of the sitting of the current sitting of the Sejm and the agenda. [[You're the badass.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this subject is not on the agenda, so that I thank you, Mr President. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion.]] [[But this is a scandal.]] Then file this application in writing or in a statement. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[It's about running the proceedings, and it's about you that I want to make a formal application.]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[About you.]] [[Please leave the podium.]] Mr President, I would like to call you to order... [[Go ahead, Bartek, show me you're a badass.]] [[I'd like to make a formal request on your behalf.]] ...on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Once again, sir, I'm asking you to leave the podium. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform. Just come up to me and tell me what the formal conclusion is. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform chant: Cenzura! Censor! Censor!]] [[Mr. Marshal, I was in kindergarten over 40 years ago.]] Please... [[This is a formal proposal on the agenda...]] The proposal concerns... [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure, Rules of Procedure.]] ...as you said, only matters on the agenda, right? Otherwise, I'll turn your voice off. [[Voice from the room: Voice cannot be turned off.]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I hope you don't turn my microphone off. I wanted to ask you a question about the agenda. Marshal, where's the resolution on martial law 35 years ago? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u11	It's not, Mr... I would like to point out to you that you have violated the rules of procedure. [[Formal motion for a recess, Mr. Marshal.]] Here you go, Mr Arłukowicz, a formal proposal. [[You can tell from him that he's lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 184 I request a recess because I find very serious shortcomings in your workshop. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Parliamentary pharmacies team... Mr. Marshal, I'm not filing a motion until you've silenced that wiping. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[They don't have the President, they don't have the President, they don't have the President.]] ...mysterious team in the composition - from this side: musician, lawyer, farmer, political scientist wrote the pharmacies bill. [[Get away from the politologists.]] And I ask the marshal to explain what happened that you, as marshal, are directing the pharmacies bill -- attention -- to the deregulation committee, not to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u13	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u14	What are you hiding in this bill? What are you afraid of? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That Latos and Sosnierz would tell the truth about what you wrote there?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u15	Mr President, you do not make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u16	You can disagree with them, but they know the system. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr. Marshal, this is a scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u17	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the formal proposal may only concern matters on the agenda and not those that you are talking about. [[There was a request for a recess.]] Because this case isn't about the agenda. So that I draw your attention again and call you to order... [[There was a request for a recess.]] ...because you're interfering with the Sejm's hearing right now. [[I call you back to order, too.]] We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the budget law for 2016. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. There are questions. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club. [[Come to the marshal.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u18	Mr. Marshal, maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u19	Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u20	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning we are talking about the 2016 budget and correcting incorrect and incorrect information provided by Minister Tobiszowski. The Civic Platform provided money for Barbórka... [[But which Barborka?]] ...and for the 14th salary. It provided restructuring funds of PLN 3 billion. You used that money. In addition, measures of PLN 4 billion were introduced this year. Thus, it is not true that the Minister's words that the mine restructuring programme was unprepared. This is what the 2016 budget is talking about. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] But you are proposing that the Prime Minister amends the 2016 budget. Mysterious because the Prime Minister doesn't write, the Minister hasn't given the High House any answers. And I bet all my money that Mr. Marshal almost doesn't know what's going on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much money will be spent on purchasing cultural goods? Is the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u21	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u22	Will he answer? If not, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u23	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u24	...the agenda of the finance committee, so as not to violate the constitution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u25	Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u26	...and for Parliament to have the right to control... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u27	Member, thank you very much... [[But don't interrupt!]] ...you're out of time. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u28	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that we will be against these projects. And, High Izbo, not for substantive reasons at all, because saving and cumulative these funds at the end of the year and using them for rational purposes is as reasonable as possible, I would say, even a certain operationality of the Minister of Finance. But the way you've given us the debate on these projects is a taunt of all decency. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Yesterday, Mr Cymanski spoke so beautifully about cooperation, about agreement, about this particular time of debate. And what did you do about it? The debate is sealed, there is no telling what is going on, where the money is coming from and what it will be used for. This was mentioned by Mrs Skowronska. And the debate itself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen... The government and members of the PiS held a conversation, a discussion club in the plenary room. The Marshal was unable to react effectively. It is unacceptable to treat the High House like this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u29	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 1129 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 162 voted against - 222, with 21. The Sejm's motion is denied. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft law amending the budget law for 2016 is addressed to the Committee on Public Finance. We return to the review of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to additionally refer the draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law at first reading. If the motion for rejection is rejected, we will decide on the referral of this bill to the committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print no. 1130 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 161 voted against - 225, with 20 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We will now proceed with the decision to refer the bill to the committee. The proposal submitted by the Bureau of the Sejm is that the draft be sent to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. In the discussion, a request was made to refer this draft law in addition to the Committee on Culture and Media. If I do not hear any objection, I will believe that the Sejm's proposal, as assessed by the Sejm Bureau, has been accepted and that I will put the motion for additional referral to the Committee on Culture and Media to be put to the vote. [[Objection.]] There's an objection. Mrs Skowrońska objected. [[I'd ask for a vote.]] Then we'll vote... [[Reason.]] ...to refer the project to the Committee on Public Finance, because there was an objection. [[Marshal, come to your senses.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the project to the Committee on Public Finance, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. The vote was 317 against - 79, with 10 abstentions. [[Joy, excitement in the courtroom, applause]] The Sejm rejected the opposition and sent the draft to the finance committee. We proceed with the vote on the request for additional referral to the cultural committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for additional referral to the Committee on Culture and Media of the bill No 1130 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 179 voted against - 223, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred it, as I said, only to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 39 hrs. 9 min 47]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 1063 and 1111). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws, prints 1063 and 1111. This government submission envisages entrusting the Prison Service with tasks related to ensuring security and order in the Ministry of Justice and in the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The special nature of the tasks performed by the Minister for Justice of the Prosecutor-General may involve the occurrence of threats to the security of the office serving the Minister for Justice acting simultaneously as the Prosecutor-General. Such a level of protection is not ensured by entities carrying out tasks under the Act of 22 August 1997 on the protection of persons and property. It is appropriate to supplement the legal order with provisions providing for the assignment of tasks in this area to the Prison Service as a formation with both knowledge and experience in ensuring the protection of criminal establishments and detentions against the activities of the criminal world, including in particular organised criminal groups. The scope of the tasks will be decided by the Minister of Justice as head of the Prison Service, taking into account the fact that both the office serving the Minister of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office are located in several locations. In order to carry out the tasks set out in the Prison Service Act of 9 April 2010, it was necessary to amend the Law of 24 May 2013 on measures of direct coercion and firearms, and in particular Article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 10 determining the cases in which a Prison Service officer is entitled to decide to use or use direct coercion measures only in the event of an attempted direct, unlawful attempt on the life or health of a entitled person or other person, an attempt to escape by a deprived person, and a pursuit of him or a person who has carried out a direct unlawful attack on the facilities of a prison, an investigation or other organisational unit in which the Prison Service ensures order and security. There is also a revision of the Article. 40 § 2 of the Law of 28 January 2016 on the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is the consequence of the amendments made to the Prison Service Act and aims to ensure the security of the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is carried out by entities carrying out tasks pursuant to the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property with the provisions laid down to enable the National Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out those tasks. This change will be financed by the funds which the National Public Prosecutor's Office spends on the protection of its premises as part of the purchase of personal and property protection services. The envisaged date of entry into force of the Act is the day after the date of publication. This is dictated by the expiry date of the current agreement for the protection of the District Attorney's Office... excuse me, the National Public Prosecutor's Office on 31 December 2016. In favour of shortening the vacathio legis, there is an important public interest in ensuring the security of the Minister of Justice for the Prosecutor General and the staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office as of 1 January 2017 by the Prison Service officers. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 6 December 2016, requests the High Sejm to adopt a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u31	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will once again ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft submitted just in detail by the rapporteur. I would like to add that it contains only four articles and changes are made in three laws. The first amendment concerns the Prison Service Act, which ensures order and security in the office serving the Minister of Justice and the national prosecutor by experienced Prison Service officers. Their obligations are also linked to the amendment to the Law on Direct Force and Firearms of 24 May 2013. The next amendment to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office concerns the organisational unit of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Vacatio legis is very short due to previously concluded property protection agreements, which expire on 31 December 2016. The parliamentary club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u33	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the opinion of the Civic Platform Club on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. The draft committee of justice discussed it on 6 December this year. The project is government. This project concerns entrusting the Prison Service with security and order tasks in the Ministry of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office. According to the government, the special nature of the tasks performed by the Minister of Justice may be linked to the existence of threats to the security of the office serving the Minister of Justice, here the government stresses that, at the same time, the Minister is acting as Prosecutor General and also to the security of the prosecutor's office. What is important, entrusting the Prison Service with tasks related to ensuring order and security in the office unit of the prosecutor's office, in the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is located in the location, is located in Warsaw at ul. Rakowiecka, will be financed by the prosecution itself. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Ombudsman is cyclically speaking to the Director-General of the Prison Service. The analysis of the internal order of 33 penitentiary units carried out last year at the Ombudsman's Office in order to assess the possibility for those deprived of freedom to exercise the right to use the various things does not show a very good picture. I understand that this law is primarily of a technical nature, but at the same time we would ask that the Director-General of the Prison Service also pay attention to the problem proposals that the Ombudsman is directing to the Director-General of the Prison Service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u35	Thank you. Barbara Chrobak will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There was a clear gap in the existing legal system of the Prison Service's competence. Prisoner officers had the power to decide whether or not to use direct coercion measures in the event of an attempted direct unlawful attempt on the life or health of a entitled or otherwise person, attempted to escape by a deprived person, as well as in the case of a pursuit of a deprived person and in pursuit of a person who has committed a direct unlawful attack on the premises of a prison or an investigation. It is appropriate to supplement this provision with regard to the case of a pursuit of a person who has carried out a direct unlawful attack on the premises of another organisational unit in which the Prison Service ensures order and security, in particular those subject to the Ministry of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office. At present, ensuring security in the office units of the prosecutor's office carries out tasks under a contract for the protection of persons and property. This is incontrovertible and there is no doubt that these provisions need to be supplemented with the Prison Service officers. Therefore, Kukiz15 is in favour of the bill as proposed by the authors of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u37	Thank you, Member. And I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws included in print 1063, following the presentation of the report of the committee, contained in print No 1111. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has been presented to the High House because, as indicated in the explanatory memorandum, the Minister of Justice is concerned about the risks to which it may prove insufficient to ensure an adequate level of protection by entities carrying out tasks under the Act of 22 August 1997 on the protection of persons and property. Therefore, the Government has submitted a law to the High House which contains solutions for entrusting the Prison Service with security and order tasks in the Ministry of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office. High Izbo! In principle, we fully share the demand to ensure an adequate level of order and security in all public administrations. However, apart from a few exceptions, these obligations are usually carried out by specialised companies that have the necessary knowledge and facilities. These companies must also have a licence to certify their competence. This is where the first questions are born. What are the risks to which the protection provided by specialised companies may not be sufficient? After all, this tender specification determines what type of risks should be the subject of the protection services, and the specification indicates the type of such risks. If there is no company capable of executing an order, in which, let's agree, it would be hard to believe, then no one would make an offer. So far, nothing like this has happened. This is confirmed by the justification given by the government. It explained that the National Protection Agreement at present will be concluded at the premises of the Public Prosecutor's Office following the expiry of the Agreement on 31 December 2016. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Nor does it appear from the justification that the services provided so far are insufficient. So the government wants to change the rules in this regard just in case, which, in fact, even explicitly acknowledges in the explanatory memorandum. Whether such a change is justified, it is difficult to assess at this stage, especially since the draft amendment was not created as a result of the lack of offers in subsequent tendering procedures, but, as I said, just in case. We will find similar doubts and questions about the project, because unfortunately the project is rather similar to the result of the unthought-out ambitions of the next Minister of the Government of PiS. This will also be mentioned in the further part of the position of the Modern Posel Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u39	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will speak at the rest of the time for the modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, we have been trying to find the basis for this decision because we have recently had such examples of nationalization of different spheres of life. We have the nationalisation of banks, here we learn from the press that there will be a nationalization of a lady with a group. Now it turns out that external companies, which have often performed services very well and have been properly prepared for this, are deprived of any additional capacity, because the facilities of the Ministry of Justice and the buildings of the national prosecutor will protect the Prison Service. Nothing like that ever happened to change that. I don't know what the responsibilities of these security companies were. In fact, it looks a little bit like that here the PiS ministers are outrunning themselves in creating their own formations, which they will be able to give orders. Minister Macierewicz creates the Territorial Defence Army, and here I see that the Minister of Justice creates the Prison Service, which will protect the objects at his command. I don't know if this is the right way to do this. The question is: What was the difference between the responsibilities of the companies that have carried out these orders so far and those responsibilities that will be passed on to the Prison Service? I would also like to know if the company that has been protecting so far could have used a weapon, whether it would actually only be in the current proposed solution, i.e. that the Prison Service would be able to use weapons in the event of a threat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u41	Thank you, sir. And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws on behalf of the Polish People's Party. This project is intended to entrust the Prison Service with tasks related to ensuring security and order in the Ministry of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office. According to the drafters in the explanatory memorandum, the specific nature of the tasks performed by the Minister of Justice - the Prosecutor-General - may pose risks to the security of the office serving the Minister of Justice acting simultaneously as Prosecutor-General, as well as to the security of the Public Prosecutor's Office providing service to the Public Prosecutor-General, to which these risks may prove insufficient to ensure an adequate level of protection by the entities performing such tasks. Prison Service as a formation with both the knowledge and experience of ensuring the protection of prisons and arrests against the activities of the criminal world, including organised criminal groups, as well as properly trained officers, is now to protect the Attorney General. To entrust the Prison Service with tasks related to ensuring order and security in the organisational unit of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in a location located in Warsaw at ul. Rakowiecka will be financed by the funds currently spent by the National Public Prosecutor's Office on the protection of its premises as part of the purchase of personal and property protection services. There are obvious questions. Will pulling officers away from the tasks entrusted to them serve this formation? Will this not be to the detriment of those tasks which are primarily in their scope? The primary task of the Prison Service is to protect the prisons, not the minister. There is also a question that will no longer be a question asked for the first time or something specially original. The impression is that the Minister is looking for a solution to start some special service. Now, unlike other resorts, finance or foreign affairs, the Minister of Justice will gain just such a kind of own army. It is good for you, Minister, to resolve such doubts, too. As he rightly points out in his opinion to the NSZZ project Officers and Prison Workers, the project lacks a detailed calculation of the financial and insurance implications for the Prison Service resulting from the implementation of this law. Here it seems like an abeccadile that should be written down. It is also worth repeating the question asked by the unionists. Will new jobs be allocated to carry out new tasks? Should the service ensure that new tasks are carried out within the current staff resources? The new tasks cannot be entrusted without strengthening the full-time and financial service. Finally, the question of haste in the process of the bill, as you write in the explanatory memorandum, from the ending agreement for protection of the Ministry of Justice. After all, it was also known that at the end of the year this agreement ended. It could have been much, much earlier, given the time to proceed here, because we are not defending you to offer such a solution, but unnecessarily again such a haste, which is again multiplying questions, why, why so quickly. The envisaged date of entry into force of the Act on the day following the date of publication is the fact that the protection of buildings by entities operating under the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property will be terminated in connection with the expiry of the contract on 31 December. I have already told you that this is just another time to show that current and ad hoc matters dictate the law-making in Poland. It's not a good case, it's a good precedent for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Members' Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of directing this project to further work. However, in order for him to gain our support, he will really be in at least a few places there is a need for quite profound changes, but of course we are open to discuss these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u43	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If there are no more people willing to ask the question, I close the list of those who have signed up for the questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of this year, the agreement for the protection of the buildings of the National Public Prosecutor's Office expires. In accordance with this Act, this task will be entrusted to the Prison Service, which will perform the tasks of ensuring security and order in the Ministry of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office. The explanatory memorandum states that the introduction of this solution is justified because of the risks that may arise from the specific nature of the tasks performed by the Minister of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Thanks to the Act, the savings resulting from the cancellation of protection services of 450 thousand are to be generated. zł. In view of the changes resulting from this Act, I would like to ask: Will the execution of new tasks by the Prison Service be supported by additional posts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u45	Thank you. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a specific question: Who and under what conditions is the Ministry of Justice protecting at the moment? Second question: Has an attempt been made to tender for security services in the prosecutor's office for the period from 1 January 2017, i.e. after the date on which the existing contract for these services expires? Was the new minimum hourly wage rate relevant for the waiver of commercial companies? After recognizing the market - I hope it was - did it turn out that these costs would be much higher? The important question is: Could the security company - now this company - use firearms during security, because this is one of the changes that we are concerned about? I would also like to ask: How many officers will be sent to protect the offices? Will new officers be accepted, or will this task be carried out with the help of current staff resources? If so, which penitentiary will the officers be moved from just to protect the offices? Finally, Minister, I would basically like to tell you that the idea that the Prison Service should keep an eye on the Minister and the Vice-Ministers is multidimensional and therefore very interesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u47	I ask Mr Krzysztof Paszik to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, in fact, two questions. First, I guess that the Minister would not be all here in the form of an open debate, he could say, but as much as he could, of course: Has there been any recent events, or information, that gave such a disturbing impression of an increased threat to the ministry, to those running this ministry, because somewhere in the background of this project, you can get such an impression? Second question: How is the protection provided by the Office for the Protection of the Government to the ministers responsible for the Ministry of Justice in this regard? Is this protection insufficient? If so, why do we need so far-reaching changes? Of course, it's mostly about security, I guess, building and infrastructure, but how does this have to do with the protection that the government security office guarantees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u49	I ask Mr Stefan Romecki to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Will the funds that have been transferred to security companies be sufficient for new tasks? Whether to entrust the Prison Service with the tasks of ensuring order and security in the office unit of the prosecutor's office will entail additional costs above 450,000. Evil? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u51	Thank you. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u52	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Seym! In response to the doubts raised in this discussion, I would like to draw attention to one thing, that the Prison Service is a complementary element, which guarantees the security of the Polish state. Therefore, if there is any doubt here about the powers of the Prison Service officers, they are completely unjustified. I remind you that every day the Prison Service protects the Polish state from more than 70,000. people convicted of all kinds of crimes and doing so extremely effectively, even despite some of the problems associated with underfunding of this service, which we will talk about at the next point - it is doing so extremely effectively. Therefore, the allegations made by this speaker concerning the powers of the officers of this service are absolutely unfounded. In addition, there were doubts or even a thesis that the Minister of Justice was creating another service, and even a far-reaching thesis was made that the Minister was creating a Prison Service subordinate to himself. I wanted to point out that this service was not created by Zbigniew Ziobro, and Marshal Józef Piłsudski in 1919. We will soon have a 100th anniversary of this service, since 1919, a prison guard with a very glorious tradition. The next question was whether this amendment would make us spend more money on security in these buildings. Here I would like to point out immediately that this is not going to happen, i.e. There will be no extra expenses. The resources allocated to these tasks will remain at the current level. There was also a question about how this amendment corresponds, for example. with protection in relation to the BOR. Here I would like to point out that, of course, the Office of Government Protection does not protect buildings, and this is the case with the amendment. As to the question of who is currently protecting the Ministry of Justice building - as indicated in this amendment - this is already done by the Prison Service. Therefore, this amendment is only technical in our view and is justified by ensuring the safety of the buildings described by the officers who have the appropriate competences, qualifications and skills which they confirm in their daily service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u53	Thank you, Minister. And the question is whether the rapporteur wants to take... No, he won't speak. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Prison Service modernisation programme in the years 2017-2020 (prints Nos 1060 and 1112). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I present, on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, a report on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Prison Service modernisation programme in 2017-2020, print No 1060. The program has among others. to improve the security of prisons and detention facilities and their equipment and to improve the conditions for serving by prison officers and civil prison workers. Its implementation is intended to create the conditions for the Prison Service to carry out its tasks properly and to significantly improve the effectiveness of the service, thereby improving the security of the state and citizens. The Act provides for a number of measures to achieve these objectives. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 25 November 2016, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the draft law to the Committee on Justice for its first reading. The first reading was held at the committee meeting on 6 December 2016, and the draft law was examined. No written opinions were submitted for this project. The project was presented by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice by Minister Marcin Warchoł. All the regulations of the attached project have been systematically discussed. No substantive amendments were tabled, but only legislative amendments. 14 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, 1 abstention. The Commission of Justice, after considering the draft law, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law as proposed in the committee's report in print no. 1112. I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation with the Members, as well as with all the members of the committee. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u55	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present the position of the club on this bill. It should be noted first of all that this is the first act of this kind, which comprehensively presents the programme of optimal conditions for carrying out the statutory tasks of the Prison Service. This is a multi-annual programme, covering the years 2017-2020, first after 1989. The programme includes in particular the purchase of weapons, the purchase of special equipment and equipment, the purchase and modernisation of technical protection equipment and fire-fighting equipment, the thermomodernisation of construction facilities, the provision of electricity security of penitentiary units, the improvement of the technical condition of construction infrastructure, the purchase and replacement of rolling stock, the modernisation of medicinal entities for persons deprived of freedom, the modification of the system of employment of medical personnel. I would like to stress here that there are about 100 doctors missing from the Prison Service and that appropriate conditions should be created for employment under civil law agreements. It's a matter of payback for the prison service officers and the prison staff. These issues are also adequately secured in the state budget for 2017 and 2020 and even in the longer term until 2026. The amount from the state budget in the first period up to 2020 will be 1 520 265 thousand, and is set out in the Act and in the annex to the Act for individual years, and by 2026 and 2 917 269 thousand. The Minister of Justice will supervise the implementation of this programme. It should be stressed that the Prison Service is the only formation in a country that has not been modernised since 1989. It's an armed formation. The programme also plans to purchase semi-automatic carbines, grenade launchers, which is related to the 2015 withdrawal programme for other weapons, Kbk AKMS and RWGL, from the Prison Service equipment, due to the need to switch service to weapons with less force of destruction. It is also planned to purchase protective kits in the amount of more than 1000 pieces, protective helmets - over 1500 pieces, bulletproof vests for a total amount of 2,200 thousand. It is also planned to purchase devices for the detection of narcotic drugs, devices for the detection of mobile phones. In order to ensure the electrical safety of penitentiary units, 51 generating units must be installed or replaced. It is planned to liquidate the Penalty Facility in Opole and build a new one in the vicinity of Opole with a capacity of about 650 places for prisoners. The investment cost was set at 250 million. An increase in the salary of officers is planned from 1 January 2017, with an increase in the multiple of the basic amount, representing the average salary of officers from 3.01 to 3.19, an average of PLN 250 will increase the salary from 1 January 2017. There will also be an increase in salaries for civil servants. It should be stressed that there are over 27 000 officers and that there are more than 1800 civil servants. There are over 70,000 prisoners in prisons. The Law and Justice Club supports this project as a project necessary for the modernisation of the Prison Service in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u57	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Wolf, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present our position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the "Inmate Service Modernization Programme" in 2017-2020. First of all, I would like to say that most of the provisions in the bill we are talking about deserve a positive assessment. I am referring to the provisions concerning the purchase of weapons, the purchase of special equipment and equipment, the purchase and modernisation of protective equipment and fire-fighting equipment, the reduction of energy consumption through the thermomodernisation of buildings, the provision of energy security, the improvement of the technical condition of buildings, the replacement of rolling stock, the modernisation of information and communication systems, the improvement of medical facilities for those deprived of freedom and, finally, the strengthening of the incentive system for civil servants and workers' salaries. If the objectives that I have just mentioned were to be achieved, this would undoubtedly contribute to increasing the safety of prisons and detentions, it would increase the working comfort of prison officials and civil prison workers, and they would also feel it by improving living conditions or improving the condition of medical facilities. I said: if, because my doubt arises the financial reality of this programme. I would like to remind you that the total amount of expenditure for the implementation of the programme in 2017 and 2020 will amount to 1 502 265 thousand. zł, and when we move the border to 2026, as you wrote - 2 917 269 thousand. zł. In contrast, in the article. 1 paragraph The 3 projects we are talking about can be read that the programme is not a multiannual programme within the meaning of the Law of 27 August 2009 on public finances, so we have no guarantee of financing the programme in the following years. In the explanatory memorandum you also wrote that this is the first modernisation act. The law so, while receding a bit in history, the modernisation and reform activities of the Prison Service during more than a quarter of a century of the existence of free Poland were very intense in my opinion. I am referring here to the first years after 1989, when Paweł Moczydłowski led the Central Board of Penitentiary Works at the Ministry of Justice by reforming both the Prison Service and the treatment of prisoners, improving the living conditions in prisons. In my opinion, such a milestone was also the Prison Service Act of 9 April 2010 - a legal act that comprehensively regulated matters related to the functioning of the Prison Service; a law that adapted the Prison Service to the standards in force in other uniform services, as well as the requirements of the Constitution and European Union law. In recent years, the formation was also gradually equipped with new equipment, the construction of penal facilities - such an example is the Department of Penalty in Opole Lubelski - ensuring the proper conditions for the execution of the penalty, and for civil servants and employees providing better working conditions. Other examples include the construction of a production and storage facility in Opolskie Strzelce or the thermomodernization of the building of the penitentiary. These are examples of investments that ended, it seems, in 2015. As I said, the process of modernising the Prison Service continues. We see the positive aspect of the project presented, but its implementation depends on securing funds in the budget of the State for the next years of its operation, and that is not the case, and this raises our doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u59	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Barbara Chrobak, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! State services in many areas were in collapse. So far, there have been no coherent visions of modernization, whether it's the police, whether it's the Prison Service. As an employee of the D.A.'s office, I had the opportunity to observe the infrastructure and financial collapse of these services closely. Until then, there were growing disparities: in the Prison Service headquarters - relative well-being, and the lower, the worse. The police in the current term of office have received a modernization bill, a time for other services, a time for the Prison Service, and then a time for the - neglected infrastructure - the prosecutor's office. Therefore, we are optimistic about the modernisation programme submitted by the Ministry of Prison Service in 2017-2020. This programme will primarily promote security. The programme should, as a result, modernise the facilities, equipment and infrastructure at the Prison Service's disposal. As a parliamentary club, we appreciate this program positively. We know that the Prison Service as the only uniform formation in the country since the change of political system in 1989 has not been modernised. As a citizen's movement - I appeal here to the representative of the Minister of Justice - we expect a similar project in the area of the prosecution in the near future, which combines the entire security system of the state and citizens. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u61	Thank you, Member. And Mr Mirosław Suchon, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law establishing the "Programme of Modernization of Prison Service" in the years 2017 to 2020 and included in print no. 1060, following the presentation of the report of the committee, included in print no. 1112. Ladies and gentlemen! The programme of modernisation of the Prison Service in 2017-2020 is undoubtedly a necessary, necessary, reasonable and expected programme. Prison Service, as highlighted in the explanatory memorandum, as the only uniform formation in the country, has not been included in the modernisation programme despite further initiatives taken by the Ministry of Justice in this area in recent years. However, the decapitalization of the resources in charge of this service has resulted in a systematic reduction of safety levels for many years. The programme, the details of which are included in the submission, aims primarily at improving the safety of prisons and detentions. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the main direction in the area of property expenditure will be to equip prisons and arrests with appropriate equipment. An important element of the investment will also be the improvement of the conditions for serving by Prison Service officers and civil prison workers. According to the government's assumptions, as a result of the modernisation included in the submission, the conditions will be adequate for the proper and optimal execution by the Prison Service of its statutory tasks. The modernisation is also intended to affect the actions of the Prison Service in such a way as to significantly improve its effectiveness. Of course, as a result, improved security should also be felt by citizens. According to the government, the implementation of the programme will, as a result, modernise the facilities and equipment held by the Prison Service. Ladies and gentlemen! The amount of expenditure allocated to the implementation of this programme in the years 2017 and 2020 is over PLN 1.5 billion. Among the projects that will be implemented in this area and which are worth mentioning, among others. The programme of thermomodernization of construction works, for which more than PLN 116 million is foreseen. It is an investment which will reduce heating costs, which in the future will allow the saved funds to be used for other purposes. Another task is to ensure the electricity security of the penitentiary units. This is an area that requires funding in the era of widespread use of electronic solutions. The programme foresees that it will be almost PLN 7.5 million. In turn the necessary modernisation of information and communication systems will cost almost PLN 62 million. In view of the time being, I will stop doing so, but the aspects I have already mentioned indicate the need for this programme to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u63	Thank you, sir. And I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As if I were going to compare these two laws: the one we just discussed, and this one, it's definitely better, it's well prepared, it's reasonable. I will say that it is a pity that this programme of upgrading the Prison Service is only now emerging, but better late than never. The question is: Will these measures be sufficient for all these projects? This is spread over time, so I hope so, because actually the Prison Service has been neglected for many years. And it's not just about the prison officers, it's about the whole back room, so let's say, and the prison buildings, and the prison hospitals. These are things that really need to be improved: the communication system, the electronic security system. The whole programme and this expenditure schedule seem very structured and coherent because it practically covers the functioning of the entire service. It is also worth noting that the funds have also been allocated to improve the remuneration of the entire Prison Service. Therefore, if we are talking about uniform service, it is worth remembering that we will continue to proceed with the next law on uniform services and it is good that there is no such thing at the moment that some uniform services are treated differently, the other way that this project will also cover this. So that the Modern Club will support further proceedings over this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u65	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present our position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in 2017-2020. The programme assumes a whole range of investments and purchases, among others. extraordinarily needed for this formation of 1200 automatic subcarbines for the amount of nearly 5 million, 400 grenades for 2.5 million PLN. The total amount of planned weapons purchases is 12 million. Moreover, thanks to the program it is to be bought, among others. 1000 impact protective kits, 1500 protective helmets with face cover, 1000 bulletproof vests, 500 handcuffs and 500 tonfa sticks. The total amount of planned purchases of special equipment and equipment amounted to PLN 8.7 million. The programme will also modernise the information systems and communication systems of the Prison Service. And there is no doubt that the 2000 prison service's radio communication system has become, gently speaking, obsolete. Due to lack of encryption it no longer guarantees the required level of security and is exposed to the possibility of wiretapping. The current standard is digital-based communications - underlined in the explanatory memorandum and it is difficult to disagree with that. The programme also aims to improve the state of the prison infrastructure. They have been selected within the framework of the prison, which needs to be improved as a matter of urgency. It goes on for example. the replacement of roofs, renovations or reconstructions of buildings, the replacement of heat and sewage networks. In addition, thermal modernisation of buildings is envisaged, which will certainly reduce the cost of prisons. The estimated cost of improving the technical condition of prisons is over PLN 800 million. The modernisation of medicinal facilities for persons deprived of liberty is also envisaged for a total amount of PLN 55 million. Additional appropriations are also intended to cover the remuneration of medical staff in these establishments. Prison Service vehicles are also to be mentioned, which is worth emphasising. You plan to buy 36 so-called. Inmates for $23 million. In total, 200 vehicles are to be replaced by the Prison Service. The programme includes purchases of medical equipment for prison health care for the amount of PLN 15 million. This is intended to allow for the replacement of the equipment used and the purchase of a new one that will reduce the expenditure on health care provided in prison facilities. Undoubtedly, it is important to appreciate the difficult and demanding service of the Prison Service officers, and it is good that the project also takes into account the increase in salaries for this formation. The project provides for the reinforcement of the incentive system for the remuneration of officials, allowing for the differentiation of the salaries of officers and their link to the specific conditions of their service. There are plans to increase salaries for Prison Service officers. In 2018, the total increase in salaries compared to the 2016 salaries amounts to about PLN 274, i.e. an increase of 6%, and for civil workers total increases in 2020 will amount to nearly PLN 600, i.e. increase by 16%. The Members' Club of the Polish People's Party will also, as previously said by the previous speakers, be in favour of further proceding this project. We would like to appreciate this in spite of what you sometimes say about us, because good projects, well prepared, well thought out, rational, can count on our support and so in the case of this programme will actually happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u67	Thank you, sir. Four people signed up for questions. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Kostus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u68	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On page 7 of the statement of reasons of this law we read, quote: In connection with the planned liquidation of the Penitentiary Facility in Opole, the construction of a new penitentiary unit in the vicinity of Opole was included, with a capacity of about 650 places for prisoners. The investment cost was set at 250 million. Overall, the estimated cost of improving the technical state of the Penitentiary Units' infrastructure was estimated at 476 826 thousand. zł. Questions: Which prison in Opole are you writing about for liquidation? Or maybe a penitentiary on the street. Partisan 72, open-minded men's facility - the only one in Opole, an establishment that was completely renovated not so long ago? Or is this about the Opole CSI's arrest? Why, for what reasons is this liquidation planned? Where are you going to locate the new penitentiary? It says in the explanatory memorandum that it's close to Opole. What does that mean, where exactly, or definitely in Opole Voivodeship? Finally. What amounts, exactly how much was spent on modernising prisons in 2013 and 2015 in particular in the Opole Voivodeship? Please respond in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u69	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In many countries, it is no longer the case that it is the country that runs the prisons. Question to the Minister: Did the Ministry even consider a situation in which it could order the running of prisons to external companies? In many countries, this has worked. I think that the costs could be lower, it could be saved, all the more so because we know what the situation with regard to the current network of prisons is about overcrowding. Sometimes there's a very strange situation that convicts will have to sign up for punishment, and there's a waiting list. Did such ideas even arise, or does the Ministry not consider it at all? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u71	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The scope of the programme as set out in Article. 3 of the presented project includes, among others, improving the technical status of construction infrastructure. In the explanatory memorandum, you write that the prison guards have selected penitentiary units that require renovation. I would like to ask the Minister: could you please introduce us to us, which units it is and in which order it will be repaired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u73	Thank you. Mr Stefan Rometki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two short questions: Does the Minister of Justice envisage the modernisation of the Prison Service - facilities, infrastructure, equipment and equipment? Second question: Does the Minister of Justice envisage raising the remuneration of Prison Service staff? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u75	Thank you. The list of speakers has been exhausted. Minister Patrick Jakie, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u76	Dear Marshal, High Seym! In answer to questions and various issues that arose during the discussion, I would like to point out that there is no security of the Polish state without the Prison Service. That is why, as I mentioned at the previous point, Marshal Józef Piłsudski as one of the first servants just appointed a prison guard. It is precisely because he was fully aware that an important element of state security is the prison guard, today the Prison Service. The problem is that practically since 1989 Prison Service has been very neglected. The fact that other uniformed services were included in various, successive modernisation programmes and that the Prison Service was on the sidelines also clearly affected the morale of the staff of this service, which, as you pointed out in the discussion, is almost 30,000. It is also important that the Polish State took over the obligations connected, among others. with the fact that in the coming years we will take over prisoners who are Poles from different countries of the European Union, which will be an additional task for the Prison Service. As far as problems are concerned, there are a lot of problems, but the most important ones I would like to return to you, the High House, are the fact that a dozen or several dozen buildings of prisons, penitentiary units come from the 19th century. These are individuals that are obviously very expensive to maintain today. As far as the way they are protected, thermo-modernised, or total service is concerned, the cost is several times higher than in the case of modern units. Also from the point of view of such pure safety, if e.g. Some of these penitentiary units are located in the center of the city, where there are turrets on the top, but from the point of view of protecting such an institution it is a thing, to say very gently, euphemistically, obsolete. Same with the equipment. It's old, and it's been in need of change for a long time. Prison Service employees' salaries. We have many gaps, the promotions have de facto taken place, but the funding has not followed, because we just didn't have them, we didn't have them in the service. In the same way, with regard to the various types of allowances which the law provides for the employees of the Prison Service. The communication systems are old, which generates extra costs, and this necessarily involves a rather poor sense of security. It is also important that for years in the Prison Service as a result of various policies pursued, among others. competences for inmates are taken from the European institutions. This brings down the morale of the prison staff. And all this, this law is designed to rebuild this extremely important, often underestimated, but very important public service from the point of view of the state. And the Prison Service, the High Seym, is changing. Here I would like to mention only a few of the most important elements: the work programme of prisoners, very well received by society, the programme of building production halls. We have managed to increase the employment of prisoners by almost 20%. This is the best result for years in this area of functioning of the state. The modernisation programme presented here is another element of this. I would also like to tell the High Sejm that a team was formed in the Ministry of Justice to prepare a comprehensive reform of the Prison Service also in other sensitive areas of its functioning. This team has been working with practitioners and the best theorists in Poland for a year. The results of this work will soon be presented to the High House. We are also working, there are teams working on reform of the social readaptation and rehabilitation system. This is another important task from the point of view of the work of the penitentiary units. It is also important to have very good cooperation between the Prison Service - there are effects that we can boast about today - in terms of testing elements, such as. an electronic surveillance system that has been able to rebuild after recent years. We've got over $1,000. more people in the electronic surveillance system, which is cheaper and more effective than the one we had before, which is also partly the responsibility of the Prison Service. And now I'm gonna answer the questions that have been asked. As far as the new units are concerned, we are not prejudicing this case yet. On the other hand, it is clear that if an entity is liquidated in Opole, a new unit must be created there. As far as a possible location is concerned, perhaps this week talks with representatives of the local government regarding the new location will be decided. I also remind you that this is not only about Opole, but also about Kalisz and perhaps some third location, where new penitentiary units will be created. With regard to the very interesting question concerning the conduct of private penitentiary units by companies, I would like to say that within the framework of the team working on the reform of the Prison Service, this topic is also being analysed. Last week I was in the United States where I watched this system of private prisons work. I would like to say that he has his pros and cons, but it is still time to discuss this in the High House. Surely, as the Ministry of Justice, we are open to solutions that are good from the state's point of view. And then there was this question, this thesis on the overcrowding of prisons. I would like to say to the House that we have almost 15 000 today. free facilities in prisons. This is a very good result, which is also part of a very effective and developed test work. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u77	Thank you. Would Mr Wróblewski like to speak? [[Thank you, no.]] No. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law establishing the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department and Government Protection Office in the years 2017-2020 (prints Nos 1062 and 1089). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in the years 2017-2020. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting on 1 December 2016, invites the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has heard and discussed the draft law presented by the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. I would like to make it very clear that the value of this discussion, the quality of this document, shows that the committee unanimously and unanimously gave a positive opinion on this draft law, after, of course, the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act covers the years 2017 and 2020. As a result of the adoption of this draft law, the total amount of expenditure for the implementation of the Police Modernization Programme will be 9 186 697 thousand. zł - this is an estimated amount - while the maximum limit for spending on the implementation of the programme will be 17 billion. Several important issues related to the needs of the police were raised during the discussion, as well as those documents which accompanied and accompanied the government draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, because I would like to remind you that this year the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has already adopted the Police Act, which has substantially changed the competence of the Police. The committee meeting also discussed the issues of the security map, which is thus created through a series of meetings between police and other services with residents in individual counties and municipalities. The issue of returning to the police station network was also raised, about 40 police stations were restored. Let me remind you that over half of the 800 police stations have been decommissioned in recent years. The issue of new and modern technologies that will be brought to the police as a result of this programme was also addressed in this programme of modernization of the police. Here I will remind you of such issues as the application: My command or modern ways of protecting mass events, the role of the district. As far as the other services are concerned, we have noted in the course of the discussion the issue of the restoration of Border Guard stations, including the Carpathian Border Guard Division, as well as the provision of modern equipment for the border to be protected under new European conditions. I am referring, of course, to the powerful migration of the people from the South, from Africa, from the Middle East to Europe, but also to modern devices, such as the last shopping for the Border Guard over the Vistula River, which was supported by the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission, because we were able to meet the needs of the Border Guard at an away meeting of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said at the beginning, the police modernisation program was supported by the entire committee. I'm sure the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs will be curious about the effects of this programme after a year of operation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u79	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Polakzek will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a report on the draft law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in 2017-2020. First of all, I would like to mention here again that this is, first of all, an element of the continuation of the programme of modernisation of the police, which was, you can say, initiated by the Government of Law and Justice in 2006-2007. This programme is a very realistic dimension of concrete policy on important issues relating to state and institution security, which are responsible for this security. This is also, above all, the fulfilment of the announcements of the Law and Justice programme, the government prime minister Beata Szydło and the management of the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs. It is worth recalling here some of the basic numbers associated with this law. Mr Czartoryski mentioned that all parliamentary clubs supported this project. The modernisation of services between 2017 and 2020 is more than PLN 9.1 billion, including more than PLN 5.5 billion, which are included in the subsequent budgets of these formations, while in addition more than PLN 3.2 billion are external resources, which will be included in the corresponding budget reserve in 2017 and 2020. Secondly, it is worth recalling that the programme of modernisation of these formations will concern inter alia. in particular, construction investments in the form of construction and modernisation of used facilities, replacement of equipment, strengthening the motivationality of the Police Preference System, Border Guard, Government Protection Office. I would like to mention here, for example, that this aspect has not been respected or implemented effectively by the previous government in recent years. As regards the financing of the Police modernisation programme, I would like to remind you here that it is over PLN 6 billion for the next 4 years, of which over 3.5 billion is so-called. own contribution and more than PLN 2.5 billion are resources from the special reserve. The amounts make, I think, not only a good impression, but they are real, I would say, an effort that will be made even on such aspects of the programme as the purchase of transport, land or air equipment itself - is over 600 million PLN. In particular, I would like to draw attention here to the urgent needs associated with the equipment of the police with new multi-purpose or observation and patrol helicopters. Besides, these are exchanges of more than 2400 vehicles at the disposal of the police, special technology, armament, expenditure on computer science in the police - this is over 650 million PLN. It is also worth mentioning the accompanying expenditures under this programme: modernisation, modernisation of the teaching base of police schools - this is also a very important aspect of the preparation of good tools for training future police officers responsible for state security. An important element of this programme is also the increase in salaries of police officers, Border Guard officers, State Fire Department or Government Protection Office - here I would mention an increase in the years 2017 to 2020 for the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Guard [[♪ The bell ♪]] average over 13.5% , and in BOR almost 15.5%. And in the last sentence, here you are already signaling the passage of time, and I will also mention the implementation of the government's programme request for funding under this program of voluntary firefighters. This also has a very important dimension, not only factual but also social. Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government's draft law in this regard in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u81	Thank you, sir. And Mr Tomasz Szymanski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ensuring the security of citizens is one of the key tasks of our government, each government. The professionalism of police officers and State Fire Department, Border Guard or Government Protection Office is undoubtedly the basis for this task. I am pleased, Minister, that the programme proposed by the government is, as it were, a continuation of the activities of the Civic Platform and PSL government. It is undisputed that safety and professionalism cost money. Therefore, in order to ensure the safety of our country's citizens, we must devote as much money as possible to this end. This was perfectly visible in the actions of the previous government, which spent only PLN 1 billion in 3 years on modernization and construction of new police stations and police stations, which increased budget expenditure on defence to 2%. GDP, which guaranteed security and stability for all Poles, without exception. Responsible, honest, transparent and respectful. Today's bill, as I mentioned earlier, is a continuation of these activities. However, the difference is that the actions of the PO-PSL government were carried out on the basis of legal acts detailing the way in which this was done, thus being transparent. The proposal submitted to the High House, even though it involves public spending, does not specify the precise way in which they should be distributed or the criteria to be followed - even if they would be obliged to do so - by the persons making the final distribution of the funds. While there is a distribution of funds into specific formations and actions widely understood, there is a lack of a specific, transparent way, so-called. the key, the specific instructions for further, definitive distribution of these measures. Minister, the recent events in Podlasie confirm my conviction that it is necessary to write the key to the final allocation of funds in the various formations in the bill under review. And I am not referring to the political key, Minister, but to the specific provisions: a person fulfilling such and such criteria should be such and such a amount for specific actions, e.g. repair, weapons, vehicle. I am convinced that without such records there will be abuses: those scattered confetti, they will get a new police car, they have danced, I will renovate the police station, those were not creative, they will get nothing, or, going further, here the mayor gave me support in the election, then I will renovate the police station, there was no support, there will be no renovation. Minister, in your speech, you stressed that the project under examination would improve the efficiency and efficiency of the various services, create conditions conducive to their statutory tasks, increase motivation for work. You claimed that this program would affect the quality of functioning of Polish services. However, you forgot to add that professionalism has developed over the years. You forgot the Minister that for the smooth, professional functioning of every formation, it is necessary to build years of experience and a sense of stability. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice is demoting or removing itself from the Police, Border Guard, Fire Department or Government Protection Bureau of officials with years of experience in service, with many years of experience - professionals. They are eliminated only because they were born in such a reality and not another reality, just because, even for a moment, they took a private position in a particular formation of the right past system. I personally know officers who, in the previous system, started work and did it well for the people of the local community, never against them. Today, many of these officers have been fired. You forgot to tell the minister about this element of modernization of police, border guard, fire department or government protection office. You forgot to tell the Minister about the real modernization of the good change. However, given what I said earlier, I would like to say that this money, which will help modernise and improve the functioning of uniform services, will also cause our interest in working in the committee on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u83	Thank you, sir. And I ask Mr Paul Szramka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The justification for the project states that the programme is the answer to the growing threats to the state and citizens. The implementation of the projects proposed in the programme will contribute to improving the efficiency, efficiency and effectiveness of the police, Border Guard, State Fire and Government Protection Office, and thus significantly improve public security and the protection of citizens. The elements of the new police equipment are to be among others. laser speed meters of vehicles with image recording and devices for measuring the concentration of alcohol and drugs, which will ensure the transparency of the checks carried out on road users. Among the many types mentioned in the justification of the equipment that is planned to be purchased for the benefit of the Police, there are no personal cameras for police officers conducting traffic control and car cameras in their vehicles. The purchase of this equipment is provided by the Kukiz club15 civic draft law on road traffic, which was created in cooperation with the Law Association on the Road. The new Road Traffic Law will introduce the principle that all road police service vehicles will be equipped with cameras that will record traffic incidents, and these recordings will serve as evidence on the case. In addition, every traffic cop will be equipped with a personal camera that will record all his interventions. Compliance with this requirement will strengthen the principle of transparency of procedures undertaken by democratic authorities of the rule of law, implement the principle of objective truth and reduce or even eliminate cases of abuse of powers by officers in relation to drivers of vehicles. In order for the Law on Road Traffic to enter into force fully, it is necessary to secure in the state budget and in the draft government programme the amount of PLN 1 million for the purchase of 1000 personal cameras and 500 car cameras. Therefore, on behalf of drivers and road users, I call on the Minister to make appropriate adjustments to the programme and therefore to include the purchase of the abovementioned equipment for the Police. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u85	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in the years 2017-2020 and published in print No 1062, following the presentation of the report of the committee in print No 1089. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill submitted to the High House concerns the establishment of a modernisation programme aimed at improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office. According to the provisions of the Act, as a result of the implementation of the projects which are part of the programme, conditions will be created to facilitate the implementation of the tasks of the formations mentioned by me. The main tasks of the programme are to modernise the infrastructure, equipment and equipment, as well as to strengthen the incentive system of civil servants' salaries and increase the competitiveness of the remuneration of the members of the formation. The government submission envisages spending over 4 years on the total amount of over PLN 9186 million from the state budget. This amount consists of the financial resources included in the budgets of the various formations, i.e. over PLN 5470 million, as well as external measures, which, according to the justification presented by the government, will be included in the corresponding budget provisions for the years 2017 and 2020 in the corresponding special-purpose reserve and will amount to more than PLN 3715 million. On the other hand, the maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of the programme, which is the financial result of the Act over 10 years, amounts to over PLN 17 927 million. Ladies and gentlemen, within the amounts referred to above, the various formations have separate resources to carry out their tasks. The total funds to finance police projects will amount to more than PLN 5993 million and, according to the justification presented, these funds will be allocated inter alia. for the construction of police stations or for the opening of a complex of training and teaching facilities. In addition, the police provide for the purchase of transport equipment, weapons and special technology. This, of course, should contribute to improving the level of security of citizens and the availability of police, which is the main objective of the programme. Scissors, ladies and gentlemen, I haven't seen them there, so maybe we can avoid any more embarrassing examples of posting officers to tasks that they absolutely shouldn't do. For the implementation of the programme for the Border Guard there is a total expenditure of over PLN 1267 million. Under these measures, construction investments and the purchase of border security equipment are planned. Here I would like to point out that the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has had the opportunity to observe the activities of Border Guard officers and, as a member of the Committee on Information I have, I am convinced of the right direction to modernise this service. Over PLN 1723 million is planned for the implementation of the programme for the State Fire Service, while for the Office of Government Protection the programme provides for more than PLN 203 million. Of course, for each of these services, the justification includes a course of modernisation. Unfortunately, there are no allocation criteria in the bill, but also in the explanatory memorandum, which is an important drawback of this project. Of course, part of the program is money for salaries. In view of the time being, I will stop doing so, but the aspects I have already mentioned indicate the need and need for this programme to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u87	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Sometimes I feel like no one reads the laws that are submitted at all. An example of what happened yesterday when working on the so-called. Officers who worked in free Poland for 20 years and who are still working were defined and treated as ubec and esbec. In one bill, you take away your pension privileges from those people who still work in the service, and in today's law you reward them and offer raises - this is just sick. How can you treat those who worked before 1990 in the pension law so that you take away their privileges and treat those who worked before 1990 in the same way that they receive the same increases as those who work after 1990? Are you even in control of this situation? I think, Minister, you don't even know what kind of projects you're preparing. This should, in my opinion, be consistent, i.e. I think today's bill is fine - there may be some doubts about it - but you should [[♪ The bell ♪]] As soon as possible, withdraw from the one you presented yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u89	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u90	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The operation and efficiency of police, Border Guard, State Fire and Government Protection Office, hereinafter referred to as uniform formations, depend on a number of factors. The modernisation programme discussed in this House today is only one of these factors. Their proper functioning, however, is actually a priority, headed by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. We must not forget this and we must not ignore it either. The events of the last few days show that even adequate investment can make them ridicule and depreciate their direct actions through the work of their superiors. Although the programme refers to measures other than those of the multiannual programme within the meaning of the Law of 27 August 2009 on public finances, we are still talking about public funds. These measures aim to create conditions conducive to the implementation of statutory tasks of the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Guard and Government Protection Office by modernising the infrastructure, equipment and equipment, strengthening the system of civil servants' salaries and, last but not least, increasing the competitiveness of the remuneration of the staff of these formations. The bill, and rightly so, includes the implementation of tasks and projects such as construction investments, purchase of equipment in the field of transport equipment, weapons, including special techniques, IT and communications, as well as the purchase of personal and protective equipment. It is clear that the programme adopted in this House will be implemented by the commanders of the first three formations and the head of the Office for Government Protection. It is to be welcomed that the programme will include fire protection units included in the national emergency and fire protection systems and voluntary fire protection units carrying out fire protection tasks. However, I hope that the means for this will be greater than before, which I am not sure at all when I hear the words coming from the representatives of the current authority that firefighters of the voluntary fire department cannot have better equipment than firefighters of the State Fire Department. Don't think and say anything here in this room, I'm making it up. I've heard those words myself. Although quota expenditure for the implementation of the programme will increase from 2017 onwards, there is a sharp increase in the amounts foreseen for 2019. This is the election year, which even a little careful reader of the project will notice with a naked eye. The Polish People's Party raises no major objections to the issue of the increase in multiples of the basic amount, which is the average salary of officers. With regard to the maximum limit of expenditure from the State budget for the implementation of this programme resulting from the Act, the amount planned for 2019 as a special and exceptional year is also in the eye, because it is the electoral year. But it's just a coincidence. An ordinary case is also set out in Annex 4 for the allocation of the amounts of appropriations from the special reserve for the implementation of the programme in all formations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Polish People's Party never stood up and opposed to the right and rational solutions, serving either ordinary citizens or the services upholding their security, order and order. Despite the disparities in the multi-annual programme with regard to its quota support, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of the law on its establishment, although we are not sure that the amounts allocated to the implementation of the programme will be relatively higher than the resources from the various sources spent on these services in previous years, with only the difference that collected in one law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u91	Thank you, sir. Seven Members signed up for questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Mr Józef Brynus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! The development of a programme to modernise the operation of the police for the years 2017 to 2020 is necessary. But I have a question: Will there be projects in this program that raise and teach police officers that the police are for people and not for power? This question is justified by a specific case, although there are probably more such cases, namely the activity of the police in Wadowice, where on the eve of the 35th anniversary of the martial law introduction the police brutally brought out a young woman from the city office, cuffed her with handcuffs, did not allow herself to be dressed and still twisted her hands so that she fell. There are videos showing police action, being treated worse than Mr Bure and MEP Pinior. The police did it on the mayor's call, earlier slapped by that woman because he took her phone when she tried to record one of the clerks' jobs. This woman was held in custody for several hours, but the police's availability in this case went much further. The police immediately, strangely enough, began interrogating the witnesses designated by the mayor. This is not the first such case of cooperation between the local police and the mayor. Ministers, then, I ask who the police are serving and whether there will be funds in the modernisation programme to teach them that they are serving their citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u93	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! The project assumes the use of significant funds to equip Polish uniforms guaranteeing internal security. It will also increase the powers of officials, which, according to the applicants, will positively translate into incentives for more effective and effective work. That's very good news. However, with regard to the first thread, the increase in funds allocated to the modernisation of the facilities and the modernisation of the equipment available to the officers, please answer the question to what extent the envisaged modernisation orders will be carried out by Polish companies. Will the supplied weapons, vehicles and information systems be signed entirely by the names of Polish production companies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u95	Thank you. High Izbo, before I ask another parliamentarians to ask me a question, I would like to inform the High House that our deliberations are being listened to by scouts who have reached us today with the light of peace. Welcome bridesmaids and bridesmaids very cordially. [[Applause]] And I ask you to ask Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u96	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The project concerns the creation of stable conditions for the full implementation of statutory tasks by security and public order formations by improving the performance of these formations by exchanging and modernising weapons, specialist and transport equipment and personnel personal protective equipment and equipment, construction of new and modernization of old police or guard facilities. I would like to warmly and warmly thank the ministers for this bill and ask the question: How is it possible that in such a short period of time a multi-annual programme of modernization of police, Border Guard, State Fire Department and Government Protection Office was created in the years 2017-2020? What was caused by the ministry's determination that this project was created in such a short period of time? And the question that has already been answered here, but I will ask it anyway, and I would like to thank you at the same time: Will the voluntary fire department be able to count on financial support for the purchase of cars and the modernisation of facilities? Ministers, as president of the Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - here are also members of this team - I would like to thank you warmly and warmly. I do not share Mr Sosnowski's concerns, who expressed his doubts in such a very characteristic speech, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're counting on it to happen. Boy Scouts, there's a road ahead of you to volunteer firefighters, which I wish you. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u97	Thank you. And Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u98	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We are very pleased that this modernization program has arrived. Looking at the residents who come many times on the opening days of the precincts - they are interested in this after the state of the previous government has closed over 400 such precincts - it is clear that today we are rebuilding this whole system of police stations and police stations, it is a very important thing. On the other hand, my question relates primarily to police education. Is this program also dedicated to building dorms at police schools? It's like the first thing. And the second thing I mean is whether this programme also provides funds for mobile terminals for officers to control data in police and non-police systems, such as CEPiK or PESEL. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u99	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Referring to the question raised by Mr Tomasz Szymanski from the Civic Platform - i.e. I would like to ask you, in principle, not the question - which said that the modernisation programme of the current government is a continuation of the programme of the Civic Platform Government, if this is a continuation according to Mr Szymański, what was the issue of increases in the last 8 years of the functioning of the Civic Platform Government, and what is the issue of increases in the police planned in this modernisation programme, because there is a specific amount in this programme, as well as those increases that have already been passed on in the end of the financial year. If this is a continuation, I would like to ask what the question of closing the Border Guard troops looks like. Well, since this is a continuation, I understand that Mr Szymański meant what - the liquidation of the Border Guard troops? And now the Border Guard's troops will be liquidated or are they being restored? And since it's a continuation, I'd like to ask what the numbers look like when it comes to police stations. How many police stations were destroyed in the days of the Civic Platform, and how many are restored now? I was a little surprised that Mr Tomasz Szymański was so happy to say here that this is simply a continuation of the Civic Platform programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u101	Thank you. [[May I, Marshal?]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask you one thing, as the modernisation programme provides an amount of almost PLN 600 million, which will be used to strengthen the incentive system of civil servants' salaries, as well as to increase the competitiveness of civil workers' salaries. Plus, I'll be right back. On the other hand, I also wanted to ask about this division. As I mentioned in the presentation of the club's position, there are no clear rules, no criteria for distribution, how these funds will be distributed, and therefore I wanted to ask for specific places. Well, if the Minister were to be kind enough to present what means - what scale of resources - will they go to the district of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywietki, as well as to Bielsko-Biała. As I understand it, at this point, The Minister may not have such detailed data, and I would therefore ask for a written reply to the question of what amount it will be, of these counties, of these towns, of what equipment it will be, to what extent these modernisation measures will be used in these places. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u103	Thank you. And Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'm going to go back to the point that I raised in the club speech because I'm very worried about how you're going to solve this split personality, so I'm going to put it. Yesterday, on the committee, Minister Zieliński said he would not take any higher wages from those officers who started their service before 1990. Thank you very much. That's very kind of you. But I'm not convinced at all that because you're raising everyone today, you're planning a raise for all the officers, including those who started their jobs before 1990 and are still working... I'm not sure if in about a month or a year, the state will say, "Well, no, indeed, they served the totalitarian state, you have to take that money away from them. What is the value of your words, since with regard to these obligations of the Polish state in 1990, which were clearly defined towards those people who were positively verified and treated as trustworthy people to work for free Poland, you are these words and these promises of the country... What kind of citizen is to have respect for a country that breaks its obligations? And it doesn't break itself, it breaks because of you. It is you who break these principles and those obligations which the Polish State has committed to fulfill against these people. What guarantee do these people have that next year you won't say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[♪ The bell ♪]] These raises don't belong to them? Explain that, this duality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u105	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start by continuing with this program to modernise uniformed services. He is indeed a continuation, but he is a continuation of the programme established by the government by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński in 2007. Yes, this is the continuation of this program. And what did the PO-PSL coalition government do with the programme launched in 2007? So, first of all, it reduced the value of this program by PLN 0.5 billion, and second, it extended it over time, because this program was originally to be implemented in the years 2007-2009, it was implemented until 2011. And the idea was to keep the name, keep the sign, but in fact save on the safety of Poland and Poles. Because on their own privileges, of course, politicians of the PO-PSL coalition did not save, no, hands away from their privileges, but on the safety of Poles they could save themselves. The program consists of three planes. First of all, it's infrastructure. And indeed, a penny of this money is intended to be used to re-enact the PO-PSL police stations that were liquidated during the reign of the PO-PSL coalition. 418 police stations were removed, saved on safety, especially in local Poland. It was the rolling of local Poland just this way, it is one of the crown examples. The second element will be modern equipment. And we're actually planning to equip police patrols with cameras. This way, the material record will be used to resolve disputes that may arise between the police and citizens. So these are the standards that function in the West of Europe, in the United States. This is a reference to these standards. That is also what modernization of uniformed services is all about. The third element is the salary increase. From 1 January next year, the budget law will guarantee funds for this purpose, a total of PLN 270 from 1 January next year. And what were the increases in the PO-PSL coalition? So, as I said, the programme was extended until 2011, reducing its value, there was one increase in these 8 years - in 2012 of PLN 300. This was how the government of the Polish-PSL coalition looked after the security of Poland and Poles. The standardisation programme was introduced, but as a result of this standardisation programme, which was discussed by the PO-PSL coalition government, there was an increase in the cost of building buildings which later served as police stations, the price of square meter She's almost doubled. And there is a matter of using fonts in the D.A.'s office - the use of this specific font for printing costs PLN 6 million a year. Well, over there, 6 million zlotys a year with such a light hand. You can spend it, 'cause you can. Who's gonna stop the PO-PSL coalition? Citizens prohibited, citizens, voters banned in October 2015. Of course, creating the conditions for the Polish security services to be able to carry out their tasks in a real way, is a task for the management of the Ministry of Interior and Administration. So that's why this project is for the implementation of the Law and Justice Programme. But even the best equipped police will not be able to ensure the safety of citizens if there is no cooperation between the police and the people, the inhabitants. For this cooperation to be in practice, the programmes introduced by the management of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, i.e. the programme of the security threat map, can be submitted anonymously if it notes that something bad is happening in the place of its residence. The district program closer to the people is a program that unburdened the administrative work of the district and caused the district to focus its attention precisely on patrolling areas, contacting people. A special very simple application has been launched. I encourage you to use it. I encourage you to disseminate knowledge about the functionality of this application, which allows you to find contact to the district, name, area for which the district is responsible, telephone number. You can easily get this information and it is worth using it when you notice that something bad is happening. What else is very important in police work, as well as other uniformed services? The ethos of service. Yes, service ethos, ladies and gentlemen. The police are supposed to help people. This was the case during World Youth Days, this was the 11th of November this year, this was the 10th of December this year, this was yesterday, 13th of December this year. It was, it is, and it will be, during the rule of law and justice, because that is our standard. However, it will not be as you could hear on the tape of the truth when the deputy prime minister Bieńkowska spoke to the former head of CBA Wojtunik, when we heard that the police set fire to the guard booth at the Russian embassy during the March of Independence. Why? That's why to cause riots to provoke. I assure you that, as long as I am a minister, such situations will not occur, and during the reign of the PO-PSL coalition such situations occurred. The matter that Mr Brynus was talking about, I know. I spoke to the Chief of Małopolska Police. The Małopolska Commandant opened an investigation into this matter. I assure you, even though I'm being criticized and attacked, I will always stand on the victim's side. The police are to be strong against the strong, not the weak. This is another example. In Gdansk, a woman was mistreated by the police. I'm gonna draw the consequences against the chiefs, and the chiefs are gonna draw the consequences against the underlings. Besides, we all know who the mayor of Wadowice is. He is politically very, very far from Law and Justice. So I'm not politically motivated. I follow the basic principle that the police are supposed to help people, that the police are supposed to be on the side of the weak, not the side of the stronger. This principle is consistently implemented. Polish companies. Yes, of course, the Government of Law and Justice is rebuilding the Polish industry. Yes, these orders will be placed in Polish companies. It's about jobs. Even if these companies are not Polish, they have created jobs in our country, they have invested in Poland, and some areas of safety are industrial products, they are not produced in Poland, and more precisely, they are not produced in plants that are Polish property. But where possible, the priority will, of course, be the orders carried out in industrial plants, which represent Polish capital. It'll be in accordance with the rules. Previously, we were told that capital has no nationality. It's just that it's strange that the French police are using cars that are produced in France, the German police are using cars that are produced in Germany. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] That's how weird this is, isn't it? It's not amazing. This is a rule that should be accepted everywhere. EU rules do not prevent this principle from being implemented. And the fact that we are consistent, that the Government of Law and Justice is consistent, testifies, for example, to the reorganisation of banks, to the buy-out of Pekao SA. So from Italian land to Poland Pekao SA bank returned. That's the rule we're going to follow. [[Applause]] [[Pendolino.]] Yeah, Pendolina, you guys were driving, right? You bought, the PO-PSL coalition bought a much more expensive Italian Pendolino train, while Polish companies are doing great on this market, producing comparable trains in terms of technical capabilities. Where's the money gonna go? Well, the criterion is about needs, not territorial division. We are guided by the needs of individual services. We want the level of these services to be evenly high to ensure security throughout our country. As for the dispute with the SB defenders, which comes back here - in a moment it will be very well heard, because in a moment there will be a second reading of the law, which limits the privileges of former officers of the totalitarian regime - my assessment is different from some of the states. I, the Polish People's Republic, consider it a totalitarian country, [[Applause]] I consider the country that was under Moscow and those who served the apparatus of oppression to be people who should not benefit from the privileges that belong to those who... [[Is that for the subject?]] No, it was the Member who triggered this point, so I am trying to be polite, I am replying. Mr Meysztowicz has called this point twice, so we will come back to this again. When we listen to what these people say, former SB officers, because I stress that the law does not apply to militiamen, it does not apply to fire officers, only to SB officers, we can hear that they consider it a punishment that they will live at the level of an average Pole. [[His victims.]] Yes. They think that this is a punishment for them, that they will live at the level of an average Pole. This is the result of all those years in which under various signs the same group of people who had influence in the Polish People's Republic, to which some part of the former opposition was drawn. [[Applause]] And it was this arrangement of power with little breaks, with a break to the government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, with a break to the government of Law and Justice. [[It's the wrong thing again.]] Now the government is obviously different. We implement the principle of social justice in practice. I know that not everyone likes it, there is a very large number of defenders of the old system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. Are you Mr Czartoryski? No. Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families (prints Nos 1061 and 1146). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Yesterday, the Joint Commissions: Administration and Home Affairs and Social Policy have examined this draft law and the amendments, including those tabled as minority proposals, were also considered at that meeting. The Commission asks the Sejm to approve the attached bill. As regards the amendments which the committee has negatively expressed, but which have been tabled as minority proposals, this is Amendment No 1 tabled by Mr Mark Wójcik requesting a new wording of the article. 15c. The second minority proposal is the amendment tabled by Mr Maciejewski on the deletion of the paragraph. Article 3 15c. The next amendment tabled as a minority proposal is an amendment which will result in the new wording of the Article. 22a, and this is also the amendment tabled by Mr Mark Wójcik. 4. The minority proposal concerns family pensions and is also submitted by Mr Mark Wójcik. 5. The amendment also tabled by Mr Mark Wójcik concerns the new wording of the article. 2. Two minority proposals were tabled by Mr Meysztowicz. One shall apply to the mouth. Article 4 6 and is linked to the allocation of resources saved as a result of the amendment of the law. The second concerns the extension of the entry deadline to 1 January 2019. So we have 7 minority applications. Four amendments were accepted positively by the committee. The first amendment concerns Article. 13b paragraph. Point 1 (5) (a) e fifth indent. The new wording of this fifth indent: the Academy of Internal Affairs, and within it the scientific, teaching and scientific and technical staff serving at the Department of Security of the State Academy of Internal Affairs and at the posts of the Security Service, as well as the listeners and students who, prior to being assigned to the Academy of Internal Affairs, performed the services referred to in paragraph 1. Points 5 and 6 and paragraph 1. Point 2 (1). The point here is that those who worked in the militia or in the fire department should have graduated from the Academy of Internal Affairs and not be Security Officers, this amendment would not include, and this amendment would have been accepted by the entire committee. The second amendment, which was adopted, concerns Article. 13b and, in principle, add an article. 13c as follows: The service to the totalitarian state shall not be regarded as service within the meaning of Article. 13b, which started for the first time not earlier than on 12 September 1989. The intention of this amendment is that the people who, after the elections and, in principle, after the uprising of the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, came to the service for the first time, although they were still SB services, do not harm, because it may be such a presumption that they came in good faith to change these services. I want to make it very clear that these people are not covered by this amendment. Two: whose duty was derived from the provisions of the general obligation of defence. We know that it was different in the Polish People's Republic, i.e. that if someone was taken into the army, to the basic service, he was directed to different places. Nor does this amendment cover them. This amendment has also been accepted by the whole committee. And, ladies and gentlemen, two amendments. One follows from the provisions of the Social Insurance Institution, so that the communication on the timing of the payments is issued within 7 days, and that on the amount of the pension, too, and not within 12 days. It is about harmonising these provisions. And one more amendment that was accepted. This is about Amendment 4: Article. 4. the following Article shall be inserted: 4a in its wording (...). And here I will no longer quote the whole sound. The point is to make it more consistent, to synchronize the provisions of the revised bill with the work of the Senate, it's about the principles of valorization. So that, ladies and gentlemen, the committee requests the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u109	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask Mr Janusz Śniadek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! What kind of country is it where heroes live in poverty, and their oppressors get rich pensions, Mr. Meysztowicz? These words are a very difficult accusation against free Poland. Poland turns out not to be a fair mother to all its children. Maybe not so much Poland - the question whether Poland - but elites holding power for years, elites with such consequences implementing the post-magdalenque arrangement. All the previous debubecisation laws, including the one from January 2009, proved insufficient. It must be stressed that today's bill is not punishment, punishment or retaliation. This bill restores a fundamental sense of justice. The totalitarian communist regime in Poland was based on a system of privileges. Loyalty was based on oppression, and this loyalty to the party nomenclature was obtained through access to undue benefits. Among other things, in addition to low earnings, the great impairment of the Polish People's Republic's system was the inability of consumer goods. Better wages and easier access to scarce goods were privileges for which people, overcoming moral scruples, joined these services. I repeat, the purpose of this law is to deprive undue privileges. A sense of social justice requires that. I watched a snapshot of a hundred dozen beeches here at the Sejm last night on TV. An elderly man said he was 80 years old. He cried out with anger and resentment that he was deprived of the means to live, that for $2,000. He can't live. More precisely for PLN 2050, because that is what the average pension in Poland is right now. What does that mean? That half of Poles receive a pension less than this amount and have to live out it. My scandal is also that this officer does not see the connection between the existence of the apparatus of oppression in which he participated and the underdevelopment and economic delay, the low level of society's life. This is the price we still pay for the Polish People's Republic. Such a digression about this protest that I think is coming to me: If there were esbecs gathering under the Seym to protest against the wrong privileges lost to them, do we need better proof that we are finally living in free Poland? [[Applause]] You have to admit, it's a tough bill. Justice is measured in the spirit of the Old Testament rather than in the spirit of mercy and forgiveness of the Gospel. The only criterion that deprives pension rights is service in the SB before 15 September 1989. The catalogue is mentioned in Article. 13. The workplace shall be taken into account and not the profession pursued, e.g. Secretary, gym teacher, as Mr. Meysztowicz argued yesterday. Why? Because the exception is basic military service. People who decided to work in the apparatus of oppression in the Polish People's Republic did it for material reasons, for the privileges they removed moral scruples. [[Applause]] There's no question we're not hurting anyone here. Finally, I would like to add that, at the moment, the Senate draft law, print 936, on the amendment of the Act on anti-communist opposition activists and on those who are being repressed for political reasons are being examined in parallel in the Sejm. This bill will bring specific costs. They are estimated at about PLN 300 million. It must be said that the budget is a system of connected vessels. Yes, these pensions that we are talking about today are financed from slightly different sources, but, as I say, the budget is a system of connected vessels, so it can be assumed that the measures we will save to reduce undue privileges in the services, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be spent on making amends to those who deserved Poland. Mrs. Marshal! I move that the bill be passed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u111	Thank you, sir, for speaking. And on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, please take the floor of Mr Mark Wójcik first and then Mr Tomasz Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the report of the Joint Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and Social Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Pension Provision of Officers. High Izbo! The Civic Platform led to the adoption in 2009 of a law eliminating pension rights of former esbeks and reducing pensions for service in the security bodies of the Polish People's Republic. If the analysis of the operation of the current law indicates that it should be amended and sealed, or that it should be covered, in connection with the IPN research, by some new groups of officers serving in the security bodies of the PRL, the Civic Platform would gladly support such a law. Unfortunately, the government's project has nothing to do with deubecisation. The government has proposed a law reducing pensions mainly in the part already worked out in free Poland, developed by officers serving after 1990. The mechanism proposed in this law is simple: the longer someone served after 1990, the more this law will take away from such an officer. [[Exactly.]] The problem with this law is also that this law is completely underdeveloped. It is based on a different structure than the laws adopted so far. A directory of institutions, in connection with employment in which either the service in which pensions will be reduced, has created an IPN. On the other hand, the Vice-President of the IPN said yesterday in the committee that the IPN did not take full responsibility for this. He knows that the responsibility for creating the catalogue lies with us, and this catalogue has not been consulted because the government has not consulted the draft submitted to the High House with the social partners and has therefore not consulted this catalogue either. Today, in practice, Minister Błaszczak is selling a cat in a bag to the High House because we do not even know how many officers will be subject to this law. Moreover, at the committee's meeting that we did not have time to read this catalogue, they also paid attention to the Members of the Law and Justice, because today we cannot make a responsible decision whether service or work in an institution was a work for a totalitarian state or not. Unfortunately, you are forcing us to make such a decision in this mode of work that you have given us. We are not going to take part in this decision-making. This law is, as I have already mentioned, underdeveloped, and unfortunately the design provided for by this law makes it difficult to correct it. We have proposed amendments to this law, which you spoke about, and these amendments are based on the fact that the sanctions provided for by this law apply only to those officers who served exclusively in the security bodies of the Polish People's Republic, and not to include those sanctions of those officers who served in free Poland for 25 years. Unfortunately, the aim you are planning is unlikely to achieve, because the bill is so designed that it gives a very serious reason for the officers to appeal against the provisions of this law, among others. to international tribunals. In a few years you will be here, in this Chamber, complaining that the international tribunals, through this law which you are creating today, order Poland to pay compensation. You have to have some imagination, creating a law, and not write down solutions that increase the risk of payment of this kind of compensation. Unfortunately, when you made this bill, you lacked such imagination. At the end of yesterday's committee meeting, Minister Zieliński said that the division line for this law is the division line for Magdalenka. The Minister probably thought about Magdalena in 1988, in which both Lech Wałęsa and Lech Kaczyński participated, while for us Magdalenka is indeed a symbol, but Magdalenka in 2003 because in Magdalence in 2003 police operations were killed and injured both officers who started their service before 1990, as well as those who started their service after 1990. Ladies and gentlemen, their blood was the same color, they were there for the same reason: fighting bandits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we cannot treat these officers in any other way to the extent that they served free Poland after 1990. Therefore, High Izbo, I apply for the rejection of the project at second reading, but we also make amendments which will include the regulations proposed by the States of those prosecutors who served the totalitarian state in war and accused the opposition on behalf of this totalitarian state. As you can expect, this amendment also concerns the circumstances that have recently been disclosed, which concern the club state of a colleague. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Szymański will no longer make a statement, because Mr Marek Wójcik has used, even more than enough, the time allowed for 5 minutes. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, Mr Jarosław Porwich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was very good that the Joint Committees on Home Affairs and Administration and Social Policy and the Family adopted a number of amendments, which Mr Czartoryski was just talking about. They are really very important, among others. the one who says that the service for the totalitarian state is not regarded as a service which started for the first time not earlier than 12 September 1989, I will remind you that the date of the establishment of the first non-communist government after 1989. This is a very good amendment, but it should only be hoped that this amendment, which has its substantive justification, will also be adopted by the Sejm. The second positive change, also mentioned by Mr Czartoryski, concerns the exclusion from the catalogue of people serving the totalitarian state, among others. students and students of the Academy of Internal Affairs, who were eventually employed, among others. at the fire department or at the government security office. For today, however, the bill still has some kind of shortcomings, lacks some gradation in my view, while, as I said at first reading, the idea is right, the goal is right and the project is justified. However, there are some shortcomings in this bill. I will take this opportunity to continue to repeat the questions that have already arisen during my previous speech, the allegation that there is no draft law that takes into account unverified esbeks. Therefore, I will ask again: What about those esbek workers who worked in the SB, went to work in the civilian sector, became teachers, entrepreneurs and later acquired pension rights? I will go a little beyond the scope of the matter and ask questions that still bother me and concern me about Kukiz15 and which I would like to ask the ruling party, the Law and Justice. I'm taking this opportunity. Will there be a draft law on the taking away of pension rights for persons with managerial functions in PPR, PZPR or satellites that defined the extent of repression and enslavement and cannot be included in the apparatus of repression? Will there be a bill to take away pension rights from judges and prosecutors who deliberately put opponents in prison... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...and were part of the apparatus of repression as well? These are really very important questions. We are only talking about these gray performers - and it is very good that we are talking about them - but we should be tempted for something more, something that, in fact, will ultimately constitute, as far as possible, social justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u115	Thank you very much. And I would ask you to speak on behalf of Mr Adam Szapka's Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to see this happen at the beginning of my speech: none of us, I think, in this Chamber has any doubt that the people who co-created that communist system, were agents, were spying on people, led provocations, should be accounted for, and that all privileges should be taken away from them. There's no doubt about it. [[Applause]] You justify this law with justice, but is this law fair? Is collective responsibility fair? This law will include police officers who served Poland for 25 and 27 years, risked their lives, fought organised crime, fought against Pruszkow, Wołomin, risked their lives. This law will also include - as Mr Śniadek said - a lady who at that time worked in the passport window and issued passports. This bill will include intelligence officers who worked for free Poland. Moreover, this bill will include the wife of an intelligence officer who died in service of free Poland, or children, including disabled children, intelligence officers who died for free Poland. This bill, Minister, would also include a person who, in my opinion, has incomparably greater merits for free Poland than you, or General Petelicki. That bill would also include his retirement. Is it fair, then, to account for all the officers regardless of their duties? This is where we come to the next thing. I was talking about justice. Here we come to another thing, i.e. trust in you. How does this law refer to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 24 February 2010? This judgment does not call into question the fact that the privileges unduly granted in the Peerellian years should be taken away. But how should policemen feel - because here we are talking about privileges acquired in free Poland - who have now come to work in the Police and see that their colleagues with whom they worked are receiving pension privileges acquired during the free time of Poland? [[And what about the teachers when they picked up the teachers' cards?]] How - or may this happen - are these people to have confidence in the state and how, serving Poland now, are they to be sure that no one will take away the privileges they have acquired at some point? This is... [[But is that fair?]] Please don't disturb me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For once, you would have spoken out of the pulpit. You're screaming something. [[I'll be right there.]] You are undermining this law's respect and safety at work, trust in your officers, a very important group on which we base our security. The third very important thing about which almost nobody in this room spoke and which nobody spoke about, justifying this bill, is the security of Poland. When you draft this bill, have you considered how many intelligence officers and how many Special Forces officers who either retire now or have recently retired will be included in this bill? Have you ever wondered what knowledge they have, and what effect this may have when the services of foreign states are interested in these people? Because you are declaring an agreement with these people, an agreement signed with these people by free Poland. You talk so much about justice about this bill, but why didn't you do it 10 years ago? You'd be ten years ahead. Minister, you were then, 10 years ago, the head of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. For 10 years, certain privileges would have been eliminated. Why are you talking about this now? Why doesn't this bill include specific people who had an impact on that criminal system? I can of course be malicious and talk about Piotrowicz, about Kryz, about Jasinski, but I am talking about specific people who conducted surveillance and so on. You don't cover these people. You should focus primarily on finding those people who were conducting surveillance. But because of either your inability or your laziness, you prefer to make a bill that is collective and covers everyone, regardless of who has the merit. That is why you are proposing a law which is primarily incompatible with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010, which is unfair, which undermines confidence in the state and which is not good for the security of Poland. However, the worst part of this bill is that, and I think that the ministers are well aware that it primarily favours and protects those true beaks, those people who either did not pass the verification in 1990, or who, knowing what things they did, left the service themselves. They had the opportunity to develop pension rights for 25 years now, without being officers, they had time to run business, even often engage in criminal activities, earn money, and now they can laugh at those officers who dedicated themselves to building free Poland and say: you were naive, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you trusted the state that's cheating you now. Therefore, on behalf of the Modern One, I apply for the rejection of this law at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u117	And the conclusion? Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Allow me to present on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club our position on the so-called. a debubbishing bill. However, I must say first of all, Minister, that I was very personally touched by the words that you said in the previous point, ahead of the discussion about this project, that only you, your political environment, were not related to the Polish People's Republic. I want to tell you that I don't feel connected to the Polish People's Republic either. [[Yeah, but your environment.]] All the way that led me to this House today... [[Your environment is ZSL.]] ... I took it several years ago... [[And the ZSL?]] ...and I find these words very hurtful. On the other hand, Minister, I would like to start my club speech by saying that today, I think, great joy in the homes of those people who, firstly, were not positively verified at the beginning of the 1990s, and among these people, we will find most of those who struggled over the people of the opposition at that time, who fought for the restoration of Poland's freedom at that time, or knowing how rich their record is in this criminal field, themselves left the service. Today, I think, this unthinkable project, you are making these people very satisfied. And it's not a good thing. It would probably not be a problem if we had given ourselves more time if you had given yourselves more time as designers and simply prepared this project better in the world. And so we have a bad project, and unfortunately you are giving your critics the argument that this law is only prepared to cover the problems of your environment. Without using names, I'll name this mirror problem within the PiS environment. Moving on, Mr Buddy said that this is a fair bill. Exactly, Mr President, because of what I said a moment ago, unfortunately for the fair, even if we would, we have, and here with all our power, Minister, High Izbo, I will say. I agree with you and my colleagues also agree with the critical assessment of that system and system. You don't have much, you lose a lot, I think, in the eyes of Poles, making yourself monopolists when it comes to the critical, sceptical assessment of that system and the people who create that system. Many amendments were tabled at yesterday's committee meeting, and they were presented here today by Mr Czartoryski, who, I say gently, are civilising this project. My club colleague, Zbigniew Sosnowski, was one of the first Members, tabled an amendment excluding a group of officers of the State Fire Service from the restrictions of this project. That's very good, but it's still not enough... [[So let's shut everyone down.]] ...so that this project can be considered good from the point of view of further proceding, as a project that will be a project and a fair law. I will appeal to Mr Brunette's speech because we all want to face the problem. Besides, in 2009, we were the ones who made the attempt. You can have it today, of course. different assessments, but this was the first attempt to solve the problem of the rights of people who functioned in the previous system. Therefore, as the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, we also apply to reject this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak, I ask Mr Stanisław Huskowski, the Members' Circle of the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Messengers and Members, I would like to address both the project itself and the part of the discussion that took place here. First of all, we find this project very unfair. This is what Mr Marek Wójcik from the Civic Platform was talking more about. Namely, it limits to the average national pension, i.e. treats the same to those officers who worked in the Polish People's Republic the vast majority of their working time, and in free Poland briefly - year, 2, 3, 4 years, 5 years - and those who worked a year in the previous system, and twenty years in Poland after passing the verification, after passing the verification. That's very unfair, that's why the sense of injustice among these officers, the other officers I'm talking about, is enormous. And, of course, you also know that, the designer state. It is not true, as Mr Sniadek said, that this concerns only esbeks. This isn't just about esbeks. There's a huge catalog attached to this bill. There were many different functions performed there, not at all Esbec. Therefore, the project does not apply to esbeks. He is extended to a lot of other professions generally from the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I do not want to defend those people, absolutely, I am far from defending them, tearing up tears over the Esbek or another officer of the then MMA, but punishing them in free Poland, taking away everything for what they have done for the country for several or several decades in free Poland, often endangering their health, life, etc. - it is known that officers put their health and life at risk - punishing them for having an episode, disgusting, but an episode, in their lives and treating them exactly the same as those for whom it was not an episode, who for 20 years or the entire martial law were e.g. The prosecutors... [[Jesus...]] ...and no, I'm sorry, they're not covered by this bill, the SB officers for 10 years, the entire martial law, and then they served, they passed a positive verification, they've retired, they've retired, and they have it exactly the same as those who just had an incident in that system, it's deeply unfair. I'm sure it's not just morally unfair. The Constitutional Tribunal, which you have destroyed - I already know why, not for 500+, but for this type of project you have destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal - will remain silent in this case or will say that everything is okay, because it will definitely go to the tribunal. What, on the other hand, will the courts, the international justice system, do about it? Of course there will be cases of Poland versus Mr Iksiński, Igrekowski and Zetowski. Poland will lose all these processes and will pay great compensation to esbekom. And then our heart will hurt, and so will you. That's something you have to be aware of. So it is not only unfair, but it pauperizes and humiliates those officers who have worked well in Poland free, Poland for the last 26 or 27 years. One of the Members has already said, which sounds unbelievably and ridiculous, that it will affect those Esbeks or MMA officers who were verified in 1990 by the verification committee positively, because they did not work in Department IV, etc. - I do not refer only to esbeks, because it concerned more broadly the MMA - and Poland in the new system, free Poland gave the best part of their life and professional work. They will have a maximum of PLN 2050 gross pension. On the other hand, those who have undergone negative verification and had to find another job, I am convinced, in the vast majority will have far higher pensions. In other words, the first ones turned out to be losers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what I want to say is that the feeling of bitterness and disappointment is great among these officers, the decent ones. They understand that the state is betraying them, they feel that the state for which they have worked for decades is betraying them. I'm not sure they're going to betray this country, some of them, and they have a great deal of knowledge. Thank you so much and I'm sorry... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u121	It's okay. Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Posel Club, I ask Mrs Margaret Zwierzan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u122	Yes, Mr Snapshot, unconditional support for this law. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the committee's report on the so-called government project. a debubbishing bill. During the committee work, both Members of the Modern and the Civic Platform submitted requests for a public hearing in January 2017. Both applications were rejected, and very well. The attempt to defend those who have harmed Poles is ridiculous. I am aware that modern Members are young people... [[I'm 60 years old.]] ...but this does not entitle them to know the history in which the atrocities against Poles were committed by those who received the highest pension and pension salaries today. I do not understand the words of the ladies and gentlemen of Members who believe that lowering excessive pensions to those who have wronged another person is not an element of social justice. However, I know that this is what a large group of Poles think. It's not just connected to criminal resorts or family members losing their privileges. They are also those who know martial law from books or from accounts of others, because only if they were not directly affected when they were not harmed or did not observe the suffering of their loved ones, neighbors, colleagues or even strangers on the streets can they demand that special privileges be maintained for those who persecuted the patriots. During the committee work, an important issue was raised concerning the verification of persons who served as totalitarian people. It was stressed that the catalogue of institutions which were included in the elements of the totalitarian state is more important than the verification itself. I agree with the Minister, who stressed the educational and educational nature of the bill. I thank the Minister for those words. Still, not only the youngest generation, lacks basic knowledge of the functioning of the totalitarian state. I have always stressed that in Poland it is necessary to settle with the previous system, to clearly determine who was where the ZOMO stood, to honor those who deserve it, and to deprive those who supported the criminal system for personal benefit and, above all, to punish those who had the blood of Poles who inflicted suffering on Poles. This bill is one of the elements of this fairly late bill of conscience. It is worth emphasising the fact that the Act treats all servants in the regime equally, regardless of their traineeship. That's very good, because the very essence of gaining privileges was the mere fact of joining criminal formations. It was important to be in the faithful Soviet governors of the guard. I don't want to judge whether it's because I'm willing to get privileges or worse that I'm willing to serve the Soviets. I've emphasized before: they didn't take unwitting people into these formations. Anyone who even in the end of the life of the Security Service was in her ranks knew that he would serve against the Polish people. No one knew that the result of the round table would be a change of system, and the fact that free Poland allowed former ubekom to continue working in a reformed police force gave them the privilege of early retirement. They didn't have to work in mines, shipyards or construction sites until they were 65 years old. I am pleased that the proposal has been positively assessed in committee work and I hope that it will pass the whole legislative process quickly. We've waited a long time, far too long. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports a government bill that deprives some of the privileges of people supporting a criminal system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u123	17 members have been included in the list of Members. Does anyone else want to sign up for this list? I can't see. So I close the list. I would like to be the first to ask Mr Caesar Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome. [[One and a half minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A Polish Army officer wrote to me after 5 years of studies at the Military Technical Academy, in the field of electronics. He began his service exactly the day before the date you set in the Act. 1 day for the totalitarian state, mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, mission in Kosovo, in 1997 NATO medal The second example - this gentleman did not write to me - Stanisław Piotrowicz, Member and Prosecutor, former member of the execution of the PZPR in the District and Provincial Prosecutor's Office in Krosno. [[And did Święcicki write or not?]] In his martial law he was the author of an indictment against opposition activist Anton Pikul, accused of colporteurizing second circulation publications. Is that what you call social justice? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the one hand, I put on the line a Polish officer who worked one day in the Polish People's Republic, who was awarded the Golden Cross of Merit by Lech Kaczyński, on the other hand Stanisław Piotrowicz, a prosecutor of martial law, also decorated, but in the Polish People's Republic, after the state of war, which today sits in your benches and is a symbol of the violation of the rights of opposition and the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u125	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u126	Is that justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u127	The next question will be asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15 You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! At this meeting, the Marshal of the Sejm blocked the resolution adopted by the committee of culture to commemorate the victims of martial law. The resolution was replaced by three laconic and cowardly sentences about the tragic events that took place at the time. Today, the Sejm adopted an equally scandalous resolution, in which the democratic nature of the communist government after the Second World War lives. It's a resolution on the 50th anniversary of Stanisław Mikołajczyk's death. What are you afraid of, pissants? Definitely condemn the Jaruzelski Junt, his clippers? Afraid of words about victims of martial law? You are ashamed to mention their names, and you praise Wajda. I appreciate Jarosław Kaczyński, who had the courage to leave when this resolution was adopted. You're afraid of words that the victims of martial law suffer poverty. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Seym is divided anyway. This resolution had to be adopted, and today the bill on the pension privileges of the Esbeks had to be dealt with with with with with the high head. Finally, are you brave enough to take away the privileges of high party officials, judicial officers and prosecutors of the People's Republic of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u129	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! In October 2017, the new debubecisation law will enter into force, the old law of 2009 will cease to apply. Imagine that ex-officers, and we already have announcements of this, will challenge the new amount of their benefits to the labour court. As at the time of the adoption of the new 2009 Act providing for Esbeck pensions according to the conversion factor 0,7% However, it ceases to apply, there is an extremely dangerous legal situation. Labour courts in Poland if the lawsuits are accepted, e.g. when they find that the plaintiff is not a former officer of the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic within the meaning of the de-zubekization law, or the European Court of Human Rights, e.g. if it is possible to conclude that the lack of a proportionate calculation of benefits after 31 July 1990 would not affect human rights, they would not be [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is because they could restore their pension after the 0.7 conversion rate, as this will no longer apply. Polish legislation will only apply one other conversion factor - 2.6 , as for all other pensions, as set out in the 1994 Act on pension provision of former police officers, UOP, Border Guard, etc. The situation is then: the SB officers recover in case of a positive judgment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u131	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u132	...the lost pension - your Marshal, the last sentence - in the amount before 2009 after the conversion 2,6 and in this case the PiS will gain the opinion of the greatest ally of the state security authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u134	It's a black script, but it's very possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u135	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is a bullshit bill that hurts a lot of people. He was to deprive people of pension rights connected actively with the previous system, and he would touch a multitude of those who deserved for free Poland, those who served their democratic homeland for years with dedication and actual exposure, never cooperating with the SB or with its related individuals. The bill treats people connected by most of their professional life with the SB equally and those who served the Polish state after the transition period, deciding to defend the security of the country. According to the submitted project, even those who are only learning at that time how to pursue the profession of policeman who were never SB officers or related services and were not subject to verification will receive lower benefits. Often they are rewarded and awarded with crosses of merit [[♪ The bell ♪]] for working for free Poland. These are thousands of police officers, soldiers, peacekeepers, and thousands of people dedicated to service in free Poland. Their families, widows, relatives are harmed not only by physical reduction of benefits, but also morally, by equalizing them with the perpetrators and criminals of the Security Service. Minister, how much harm will you do to honest Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u137	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. And thank you, Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u138	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ministers speak so nicely during the debate on this draft law that, I will quote the Minister: those who fight the democratic rule of law, civil rights and human rights have no rights. It would be worthwhile for ministers to remember this, too, when you pass laws that trample citizens' rights enshrined in the Constitution, just as you have recently passed a law amending the Law on Assembly Law. I have received hundreds of letters in which private individuals, but also organizations, say that you have deceived them. You cheated because during the public consultation you gave them the wrong bill, which was later sent to the Sejm. Minister, is it true that during the public consultation you presented to the social organisations for consultation another project [[♪ The bell ♪]] than the one who's currently being processed in the Seym? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u139	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. And thank you to Mr Mirosław Suchoni. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The curse of this House is that there has never really been decommunization here. The problem of our House... [[Oh, it's true.]] ...is that there's never been any vetting. The problem is that there was never a zero option in special services, what was done in Germany, in other countries of the Eastern Block. Today, after 26 years in our House, the Polish Parliament, we pet a commune, fat cats that have never been verified and never remained In fact, they've been judged, and they've never been demoted. There is no degradation, ladies and gentlemen, they still live like fat bears, they went to university jobs, to state administration, to banks, to the entire income network, and, sorry for the term, suckers went to serve independent Poland because they believed for the second time that Poland was reborn and wanted something from them. I got it yesterday. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A letter from a former UOP officer who apologized to his wife and children for believing Poland and risked them that today he really had to start all over again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Before I give the next vote in line to Mr Stefan Romecki, you will allow me to greet the students and teachers of II and IV general schools from Częstochowa - im. Traugutta and Sienkiewicz. [[Applause]] I hope that this day will be a day of pleasure in visiting the Sejm, although the weather is not special. Have a good time. And I ask you to ask me a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! The Way of Youth! And the question is, when pension privileges will be deprived of people who do not work or work in the police, ABW, etc. after 1989, and these privileges acquired in the period of the People's Poland, serving in her apparatus of repression? Those who went to work in education, administration, self-government - it cannot be that they enjoy privileges still, e.g. Kiszczak's widow. We look forward to changing the pension fund in this respect. Koszalin also wrote to me retired militiamen, not all of them are... hooked up there for a day or so... But there's no mercy for the oppressors. I have colleagues who have been harassed, locked up, no job, walking around like shadows, and those who speak today have 18,000, 17, 15... that he has 2,000. He's not gonna make it. Let's go. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna go down there and try to live for the 2,000. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u143	Thank you. Mr Marek Biernacki, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u144	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The law is a deubecisation act, but the nucleus of ubecje and esbecia, i.e. ubeks, who were so active until 1990 and did not give in to verification. Their practically does not touch what they did later, after 1990, when they said that the new country was not their country. We are talking about officers who were loyal to the Polish state. They were loyal to bringing the Russians out of Poland, they were loyal at the entrance of Poland to NATO, they were loyal to the introduction of Poland into the European Union. They were loyal to breaking up gangs and fighting corruption. They were loyal in Bosnia, Sarajevo, Kosovo. They were loyal in Iraq, they were loyal in Afghanistan, and now they're in Syria. They were loyal, but the state is disloyal to them today. Minister, I only want one thing. You're in charge of security. Will you guarantee that after this act they will continue [[♪ The bell ♪]] loyal to the State when you broke the word that was concluded in 1990? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u145	Thank you. Another question, Mr Jan Mosiński, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I take the floor as the one who had the dubious pleasure of talking, contacting ex-Sebecs, I.A. officers and zooms. And I assure you, Mr Snapshot, Mr Tomczyk, that was a dubious quality... [[You don't take away a zombie.]] Pleasure. Don't defend this environment, I... [[You don't take Peter's.]] ...I know this is your environment. Your environment, your esbek environment, your ex-zooms and that kind of scumbags. You do not grow up to Peter's heels with honesty and diligence. How will you work all these years? What he has for free Poland, we will be able to talk as equal with equals. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, this is an element of social justice. We give justice to those who live today for PLN 882 per month. I have a question for the Minister. Is the government planning further action in the near future [[♪ The bell ♪]] about denying privileges to those who have contributed to the fact that we have spent so many years in a totalitarian state of crime and political deception? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u147	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. And I just wanted to point out to Mr Law and Justice that in order to press charges, you have to have evidence. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the philosophy of the PiS state you refer to the deep, dark, primitive, Gomulkovsk People's Republic of Poland. You are happy to benefit from these values, which is best demonstrated by your personal decisions, but also by your political decisions. History purifiers and hygienists are very dangerous. This is a threat to a democratic country. If you use the criterion of collective responsibility, that means that you think in totalitarian categories. There's a paradox, the laughter of history that's about to come out. Well, I.P.N. Cleaners and hygienists benefit from the work of former S.B. officers, and you want to take away their pension privileges. It is necessary to punish all those who committed crimes that have blood on their hands, but cannot be punished in the democratic state, which is still Poland, by punishing people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for serving independent, democratic Poland. It is important to remember that people who took such a difficult job also put their lives at risk. You have to have respect for work. I'm a pacifist and I have a profoundly critical attitude towards both the military and the police. But respect these... [[What are you doing here?]] ...all those who make difficult, important decisions to defend and make sense of our country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Gentlemen of Ministers! Before I ask a question, I would like to address Mr Kaleta, Mr Mosiński, so that you gentlemen, even when working on a law as difficult as this, do not react any of your own emotions by insulting the opposite side of the room, disturbing the speeches. I really think you can tempt yourself to talk about it under civilized conditions. But I wanted to... [[If you're not ZSL, then...]] ...to ask the Minister a question which is crucial, I think, at this final stage of the work on this bill. Are you able to define a time frame for completing this law on those unverified officials, as well as the representatives of the prosecutor's office of those years, who, unfortunately, are also notoriously ill-known [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enjoy it to this day? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u152	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! You could say that: well, gentlemen, the masks have fallen. It turned out today who you were really defending, you were eight years old to sort things out. And with shame, really with some scandal I watched Mr Mieszkowski say he was a pacifist, and two members of the National Defence Committee applaud him. In what country did we live, how did you ensure our security? But because we need to talk about questions here, I would also like to ask the honourable Minister these questions. First of all, referring to the statements of my esteemed previous speakers on the left side of the room: gentlemen, you could be judged in such a way during this discussion that you were grown of boys, but to peasants you were not grown up. That's one way to say it, and that's how you approach the fundamental principles of justice in our country. The question to the minister is this. It is not a question of whether we will still deal with the affairs of others who at that time put citizens' safety at risk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, when are we going to do this and whether it's possible, Minister, that we should do it as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u153	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! For the purposes of this law, the Government of Law and Justice used the newly created definition of so-called. the totalitarian state. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Poles, dear students, you have just learned that after partially free elections in 1989 and almost throughout 1990 you have worked, studied, perhaps you were born or your friends or acquaintances, your parents may have obtained diplomas - in a totalitarian state. Up to now, born in 1989 and 1990, they were called children of freedom, and from now on, you are, unfortunately, resort children. I have a specific question: From what sources of law did you define the totalitarian state? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club, please ask another question. [[It's still Cynian.]] I'm sorry, sir, I misjudged myself, I wasn't going to take your vote away. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! My point is simple: the commune fell, the people of that totalitarian system, their paths spread. Some were thrown out, spat out, as burdened, unworthy, guilty, etc., but some were left behind. They were left, given an opportunity, they were considered worthy to continue working for free Poland. And now is the basic question: Will it not be so that the first ones who have gone and been cast out, the bad ones, will mock and mock those who, and there are many such examples, have worked for many years, had prizes, also in our day. It's a problem whether it fits in justice and how that bill works. [[What we say.]] Such signals come to me and I would be dishonest if I did not signal this problem to the ministers here. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u157	Thank you, sir. This time I would like to ask Mr Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u158	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski can be thanked for his honesty in this question. [[For courage, maybe.]] And courage, oh, sure, in your political environment is very valuable. Minister, you very often and Minister Zieliński also use the argument of a several thousand-year pension paid to an officer who started his service in the period of the Polish People's Republic. Well, Minister, do you know this isn't an esbeck pension, it's a fire pension? Minister, this is a pension that was not developed during the period of the Polish People's Republic, only a major part of this pension was developed during the already free period of Poland, in service in the State Fire Department. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you whether you know this, and knowingly you are setting this false example, or whether you have been misled by your colleagues as to who actually receives this pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u159	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u160	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Just so we're clear, tomorrow will be 35 years since the day the ZOMO and the Esbets came to pacify the strike at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Łódź. I was among the strikers, and I have no reason to defend, protect the esbeks, but in this matter one thing is important: a country which was merciful, allowed for service, those who served before the old system, and made a vow that sounded, began with words: I am a citizen of the Republic of Poland vow..., and then served faithfully to the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does this law not mean that they will be released from this vow, from this oath, in which they also vowed to keep secret all the facts that they had learned during the ministry? When the State ceases to be loyal to them, they may also become disloyal to the State. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u161	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Czesław Mrozek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! At the source of this regulation lies the misunderstanding of the interests of the Polish state, the irresponsibleness for the Polish state, but also the desire to rip off certain social groups in order to pay off liabilities towards other social groups. You are the first government and you are the first political formation that strikes in Poland... [[So you never wanted to do it. You admitted it.]] ...in officers, police officers, firefighters, soldiers who served after 1989, in people who took and did a conscientious, honest job, who risked their own health and life for their country. [[Oh, my God.]] You do not understand the interests of the Polish state, you are a group of irresponsible. Those firefighters who, in the great flood of 2007, took a huge action to help people, these firefighters are subject to this regulation. Your government's inability is also a trait. You can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] make a bill that would reflect the sense and need of the Polish state, you are a party of irresponsibleness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u163	With this question, we have exhausted the list of people enrolled in the vote. I ask the Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak to speak in response to the questions asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to the club speeches, the performances of the wheels, the questions asked. Well? On the one hand, I have such signals: it is not enough, it is too delicate, questions whether other social groups will be covered by similar regulations. I have consistently started and led my political activity in a group that has always been in favour of decommunization. That's our goal, so we're gonna make this kind of change, because we're not involved in some weird relationship, in some weird business, so we're gonna do it consistently. Today we have a second reading of the Act which deprives the security officers of the PRL's undue privileges. Contrary to what you're saying, this bill applies to SB - it applies to SB, it doesn't apply to militiamen... [[Thousands of cops after 1990.]] ...doesn't apply to fire marshals. It concerns SB officers, the Security Service, which was the armed arm of the totalitarian power of the state under Moscow. That's what happened, and your spells aren't gonna change anything here. That's right, that's the historical fact. [[Applause]] [[It's about specific people.]] These are historical facts and, on the other hand, we hear - this is already a psychic - Mrs Navel from the Civic Platform, which says... [[Guys, don't leave.]] ...about honest Poles from the SB. Honest Poles from SB - there was no such example, and even if someone appeared, it has a chance on the basis of this law, e.g. Major Hodysh, who worked with the Security Service. Art. 5 point 5 of the Act states: "The provisions (...) shall not apply if the person referred to in those provisions proves that before 1990, without the knowledge of the superiors, it has undertaken cooperation and has actively supported persons or organisations acting for the independence of the Polish State. There's a recipe. If there is one among these thousands, tens of thousands of oppressors and bandits, if he is honest, it is possible - under this law he will not be subject to these rules. You are asking, Minister Biernacki, Mr Biernacki is threatening, he says: Will they be loyal? I'm the one who can reverse the question, will you buy their loyalty like this? What are you afraid of? Tell me what you're afraid of. Or what the dead Kiszczak was talking about today, who wasn't accounted for, that the halos would fall down, how would he show those receipts he had in his desk? One briefcase showed, Bolka's file showed. [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the provisions of this law, that is what they refer to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is the principle of social justice. When considering these rules, we can consider weighing the principles: Acquired rights or social justice? And if we are considering acquired rights, let us consider whether these rights were acquired in a legitimate way. In my opinion, no, they were not acquired in a legitimate way. This is where they left, quoting some supposed letters. I'm the one who's gonna appeal to the voice of the dead. Marshal Romaszewski, who asked: What difference did the cleaning lady who worked in the SB differ from the cleaning woman who worked in the civilian field? Why should a cleaning lady who worked at the SB receive a pension several times higher than a cleaning lady who worked on a civilian job? Why? For what? In my deep conviction These are unfair privileges, these are unfair privileges. You read strange things from this law, because you simply do not want to make these undue privileges not valid, you want to keep what has been happening in Poland for years. You're talking about the other esbecs who left the SB having higher privileges. They often went into business, they often took advantage of public property, but it's also your fault, because all these years you let it happen, you thought everything was okay. Only the government of Prime Minister Jan Olszewski, only the Government of Law and Justice of 2005 and only this government has a different approach to these fundamental issues. The PSL representative talked about how much effort they put into the 2009 law. I will remind you how the leader of PSL behaved on June 4, 1992. There's a movie called "Night Change." That's his title. Watch this video and then you'll hear it and you'll see the attitude of the leader of the PSL, yes, during the night shift. And that says everything. One picture says more than a thousand words. You're talking about punishment. The punishment will be that the former Esbets will live at the level of the average Pole. This is punishment for you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my deep opinion, this law implements the principle of social justice, so I am in favour of the High House adopting this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u165	Would the committee rapporteur, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, also like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. So I'm closing the discussion. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws (prints 1048 and 1113). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws. The proposed law aims to ensure the effective implementation of Regulation No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014. This Regulation establishes a European Account Preservation Order procedure to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. The Sejm at its 31st meeting on 1 December 2016 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. This draft law was examined at the committee meeting on 6 December. No written opinions were submitted concerning the project. The project was presented by deputy director of the Justice Department at the Ministry of Justice Wojciech Ulitko. All the regulations of this project have been systematically discussed in the committee. Numerous amendments have been accepted, a vast majority of which are legislative in nature. 12 Members voted in favour of the bill, 1 against and 2 abstentions. However, I must add that in the committee's report in the article. Point 3 (1) (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (f), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), (h), Instead of an art. 105b. It is appropriate to use the word "art." 105c. Analogical error occurred in the article. Point 5 (1) (a) a, where instead of referring to Article. 9f a paragraph. 2. reference should be made to Article. 9fb. The amendment of these references is the consequence of the legislative changes made by the committee during its legislative work. This was to avoid amending the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on amending the Act on Payment Services and certain other laws at the time of vacathio legis. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law as proposed in the committee's report. I would like to thank you for the constructive cooperation you and your fellow Members, as well as all the participants in the committee's work. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u167	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And to speak, I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and certain other laws. Since the beginning of the examination of this law, we agree with the objective pursued by the Council of Ministers to prepare this project, and therefore with the need to ensure the effective implementation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation laying down the procedure for a European freezing order in a bank account in order to facilitate the recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters within the European Union. We consider this important to enable creditors to secure their claims in the debtor's bank account under the same conditions in all Member States, regardless of where the account is held. We share the view that it is necessary to amend certain provisions of Polish law, as well as to introduce new regulations, without which proper and effective implementation of the regulation in Poland will not be possible. Therefore, we consider it justified to amend and supplement the Code of Civil Procedure, and also in the Bank Law, the Law on cooperative savings and credit registers, the Law on bailiffs and executions and the Law on judicial costs in civil matters. In our view, the amendments, including the legislative amendments, introduced during the examination of the draft in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights improve the draft law. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports further work on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u169	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mrs Joanna Frydrych to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club raises no objections to the report presented. It therefore requests that the proposed draft law be submitted for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u171	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15 - Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation is so uncontroversial that I think there will be full consensus here. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, we also raise no objections to the report submitted and recommend that our Members support this project and refer it to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u173	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Modern Club, Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Posel Club, as at the first reading, we consider this project to be justified. It will certainly facilitate the recovery of the debtor's claims in civil and commercial proceedings. As this draft and the changes that were made in committee were, in principle, purely legislative, and therefore no other substantive changes were made which could be controversial, as at first reading, on behalf of the Posel Club. I would like to ask you to continue to proceed with this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u175	Thank you very much. Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. But I don't see your MP. As far as the list of Members is concerned, no one has signed up. Therefore, there is no need to close the list or to refer at all to such a list if it does not exist. Minister, would you like to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: Yes.]] Everyone agreed, but please, you have every right to do so. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u176	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Let me speak because the project is uncontroversial enough that the situation is quite unique in our parliament because everyone supports the project. I would just like to say that I very much thank all the representatives of the clubs who supported the project prepared at the Ministry of Justice. I think the goal and execution are good. I am pleased that, regardless of political differences, we are able to work well together here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u177	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. Today's amendment concerns an acceptable time limit for reopening civil proceedings. This is an exceptional remedy which allows for the removal from legal trading of defective final judgments terminating proceedings in a substantive manner. This measure undermines the stability of final judgments in civil matters and is therefore limited to the most serious deficiencies that have occurred in the course of the proceedings. The request to reopen the proceedings may be based, inter alia, on a false document, the presence of an unauthorised person in the court or the lack of adequate representation of the party during the proceedings. The draft under discussion today results from the need to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 22 September 2015. In that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal held that the five-year pre-emptive period, the expiry of which ultimately closes the judicial route to reopen the proceedings, infringes the Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So far, there have been situations where the European Court of Human Rights, after lengthy proceedings, has opened its way to bringing an action for reopening proceedings, but due to a time limit exceeding 5 years such a request could not be taken into account. This problem was noted by the Constitutional Tribunal, recognising the Article. 408 The Civil Procedure Code, which 5 years after the judgment was passed, does not allow for the renewal of proceedings, except for a few exceptions, to be incompatible with the Constitution. At the same time, the Court stressed that there cannot be a situation where, despite the rightness of the citizen's complaint, he has no opportunity to re-examine the case. The new solution adopted is intended to ensure effective legal protection for all citizens affected by judicial authorities. Project in Art. The following shall be added to the Code of Civil Procedure: 408. After the expiry of ten years, the judgment may not be renewed, except where the party has been prevented from acting or has not been duly represented. The proposed amendment will facilitate the exercise of its rights by citizens who have turned their affairs over to the European Court of Human Rights. The ECHR's proceedings can last for many years, hence the five-year period for the possibility of reopening judicial proceedings seems to be far from sufficient. This threatens a situation in which the citizen, holding the ECHR ruling in his hand, will in practice not be able to implement it. The proposed period of 10 years will fully safeguard the interests of those who have brought matters to the judgment of the ECHR in Strasbourg and all others who are looking for the possibility of reopening their cases. The solution in which this 10-year period applies not only to cases dealt with by the Court in Strasbourg, but also to all cases where the 5-year period currently applies. First, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is implemented in this way. Secondly, this solution will prevent situations where the time limit provided for in Article. 408 Kpc may be shorter than the time limit for the submission of damages claims - 3 years after the injured party finds out about the damage and the person liable to remedy it, but not more than 10 years after the date on which the injurious event occurred. The proposed solution takes into account the need to balance both the principle of protection of acquired rights and procedural justice and the principle of binding international law and the right to court. It shall also take into account the value of the validity of judgments. On the one hand, it will guarantee citizens the right to resume civil proceedings within a reasonable and realistic time, and on the other hand it will safeguard the stability of civil law relations established on the basis of final judgments of civil courts. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the club PSL request that the project be submitted for further work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u179	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. As we do not have the rapporteur for the next point, I am announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 14 hours 13 min 26]] I'll resume the session after recess. Before we proceed to the next point, I wanted to greet students of high school in Grodzisk Wielkopolski. I hope visiting the Sejm is a pleasure, what I wish. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws (Prints No. 795 and 1125). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u180	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws, print No. 795 and 1125. The work of the Public Finance Commission has been preceded by work in an emergency subcommittee, the examination of a government bill amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws. Representatives of all stakeholders were invited to the meetings of the subcommittee and the Committee on Public Finance. Any representative could exercise his right to vote. The speaking time was not limited and the number of speaking times was not limited, so the discussion continued at three subcommittee meetings and a committee meeting. As a result of the work of the subcommittee and commission, the final shape of the bill, which is in print no. 1125, has been developed. In the course of the work on the records of the various amendments proposed by the government in Draft Print Act No 795, the amendments tabled by the Members were considered. Some of these amendments were linguistic and logistical in nature. They were discussed, discussed and adopted in a joint vote. Several substantive amendments considered take into account the comments made in the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. The purpose of these amendments is to seal the records to remove interpretation doubts. These amendments are further clarified, inter alia. records relating to e.g. a gaming directory subject to the scope of the Gambling Act. The government bill sets out the necessary conditions for the organisation of games covered by the state monopoly. A monopolist shall be required to have the rules of procedure approved by the Minister for Finance. The amendment adopted by the Finance Committee clarifies the time limit within which the Minister responsible for Public Finance is required to approve these Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you that one of the objectives of the changes proposed by the government is to protect gambling players, especially minors. Another amendment adopted by the committee obliges the entity performing the state monopoly to implement the rules of the relevant game in which the verification procedure will be concluded for the end of the 18th year of age of the participants in the game, but in this regulation there should also be a record of the procedure for the verification of the age of persons entering the gaming room. In the opinion of the applicants, the next amendment agreed by the members of the Committee on Public Finance should be clarified by the provisions on the electronic recording and archiving system, where it is noted that the time for archiving data from slots should be 5 years. This amendment will improve the effectiveness of the supervision of state authorities over slot machines in arcades. The committee members also accepted an amendment which included the archiving of all data related to gambling, i.e. those games that are organised via the Internet. In the next amendment, the Commission made it clear that the entity performing the State monopoly on numbers games and money lotteries also has the possibility to organise multi-jurisdictional games. In the light of this solution, an amendment was also adopted allowing the State monopoly company to entrust its activities with the organisation of such games to the organiser of the multi-jurisdictional game. The Act introduces an obligation to register lottery equipment. The standardization introduced by one of the amendments also allows the withdrawal of such registration. The possibility of withdrawal has been introduced in justified cases. The withdrawal may be made by the Minister responsible for public finances on reasonable grounds. The Minister responsible for public finances may also withdraw the authorisation granted for technical research. The Commission, in line with, inter alia, the need to protect society, including minors, and in particular the need to protect against the negative effects of gambling, has introduced an amendment limiting the scope of advertising. Further amendments also state that the way of limitation and the whole system of restrictions, the mode of limitation of these advertisements is to be laid down in a regulation issued by the competent minister. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 35 of the Act, which specifies which annexes should be included in the application for a concession to operate the casino, the committee in the amendment adopted laid down the obligation in the form of declarations of non-payment in taxes constituting the revenue of the state budget and of non-payment of social security contributions and health insurance. This amendment sets the record straight. Since criminal liability is specific to a natural person, the wording of this amendment is therefore formulated in such a way as to make it clear who can be burdened with such penalties. There is also clarification of the provisions that would prevent the establishment of a tax base for online games. Rules have been introduced to lay down criminal sanctions in respect of those violating the monopoly. In subsequent amendments, the committee introduced rules allowing the body imposing the penalty to determine its amount, taking into account the circumstances, the reasons which would have led to the imposition of the penalty are set out in the catalogue described. The Commission has also accepted amendments which respond to the European Commission's comments made to the draft law. One of these changes is to change the requirement to use Polish language in speech and writing on the possibility of communicating in Polish to the extent necessary for the performance of the duties of the representative. This record has been liberalised, softened. We also accepted the amendment resulting from the European Commission's comments on the need to harmonise the approach to advertising of both types of betting, namely bookmakers and totalizers. As we have been waiting for 3 months for the European Commission's comments, it would therefore not be possible to introduce this law within the period from 1 April 2017. That is why we have adopted a change in the date of entry into force of the Act - from 1 April to 1 July 2017. The committee also received amendments whose adoption would result in additional taxation of foreign bookmakers, inter alia. the changes proposed in these amendments go beyond what is proposed by the government. Therefore, both the subcommittee in the vote decided to reject them and to reject them was decided by the Committee on Public Finances. However, the applicants have tabled these amendments in the form of minority proposals, on which we will vote with other amendments in tomorrow's vote. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I submit a report, adopted by the Public Finance Commission, in print No 1125. I ask the High House to accept the project, as it is. She did the public finance committee in this shape in a vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u181	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will also ask Mrs Maria Zuba to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As rapporteur, I was quite specific about the amendments that were introduced during the work of the Sub-Committee and the Committee on Public Finance. Therefore, I would just like to say that the Law and Justice Club will vote as the Committee on Public Finance has adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I will present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws, print No. 795 and 1125. The law was discussed in quite detail during the first reading. During our first reading, we drew attention to matters that are still valid. In our view, this law is wrong, and it has a fiscal objective above all. According to various calculations, you estimated that once it was introduced, the revenue from this into the state budget could increase. According to various estimates, it is worth PLN 15.24 billion. On the one hand, you are introducing a state monopoly on part of gambling, on the other hand you are expanding the availability of this gambling, which, in the explanatory memorandum to the law, you call the most harmful one and which is the most addictive. I'm talking about games on slot machines. In our view, this law is unacceptable and therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is asking for the rejection of this draft law in its entirety at second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u185	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u186	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the one hand, the contested amendment of the law actually boils down to the establishment of a monopoly on gambling, especially gambling related to slot machines. The state monopoly, as I said here at first reading, on one-handed bandits is not a solution that effectively, first, will deal with gambling addiction in Poland, reduce this addiction or make it less drastic, less socially harmful. Secondly, the state monopoly will certainly not be more effective than it would be organised, licensed, but nevertheless the competition of specialised entities, private entities. The only justification for this concept is what we are currently dealing with, that is chaos and really all-organizing gray or black market in this field of business and drastically decreasing revenue to the budget, even tax revenue, not to mention the proceeds from the monopoly pension. During the work of the subcommittee, which I was a member of, and the Parliamentary Committee, we tabled a number of amendments which, firstly, aimed at breaking this monopoly or not allowing this monopoly to take place, blocking initiatives aimed at censoring the Internet and foreign institutions, which online offered these services. Our amendments were intended to legalise existing companies on the market, especially as regards foreign institutions operating in the shadow economy, so that they would voluntarily tax themselves 5 years back with independent auditors, so that this tax would actually be a voluntary tax, not some charity paid by companies operating in the grey zone for the benefit of the State. We have pointed out that the solutions proposed by the government are well over 2 billion directly, and about 5 billion directly investment, so that this monopoly can be launched. So we are opposed to the state budget, so that State Treasury companies, so that taxpayers in general, finance and subsidize, in the first phase, as if they were putting on hard gambling. This is a misunderstanding. It's not why the taxpayers keep you playing gambling monopoly for their money. We have tabled amendments to improve the situation with regard to betting. We proposed a different way of taxing, not income, but more profitable, and not on the player's side, but more on the betting side, which would cause the de facto problem of foreign institutions to disappear. The approach to the stakes offered, the players, would be different. These rates would be competitive with companies operating in the grey zone. We have tabled amendments aimed at transferring costs from telecommunications companies to the state in terms of this blocking of websites and, like, supervision of payments over the Internet when it comes to gambling. We have tabled an amendment whereby the institutions could appeal against the Minister's decision, and not like at the moment, they would no longer have a closed path to such appeals. We have tabled a number of amendments. All these amendments were rejected, although on a good case they were in line with those amendments not delivered to the Sejm by Minister Gowin, which are supposed to be translated into the second amendment of the same law. And we call for their support to be considered as minority proposals, because they, instead of making the state spend 5 billion, would result in about PLN 1 billion in the first year of income to the state - instead of PLN 5 billion in expenditure, PLN 1 billion in income. And the key amendment that we care about is the amendment that talks about income, about the change in taxation of income-based mutual wagers. Please on behalf of the Kukiz club15 [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the support of our minority proposals, because they are meaningfully edited and really solve otherwise the problems that you want to solve by means of a monopoly law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u187	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Act on Gambling, print No. 795 and 1125. The analysis of this project and the discussion of this project was in the extraordinary subcommittee and also at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Several amendments have been introduced in the course of the work, mostly editorial and legislative and clarification. Several amendments were also of a substantive nature, among others. such standardised archiving as regards this subject, as well as other, less significant, e.g. the issue of using the Polish language in a manner necessary for communication. This project was notified by the European Commission and therefore three months late in its implementation. The date of entry into force of certain items is therefore changed: from 1 April to 1 January and from 1 July to 1 April. Substantive amendments were also tabled in the course of the work, including: It is the taxation of foreign bookmakers, and those that have gone beyond the provisions already notified, which would result in the notification and further delay of the date of entry into force of this project. These amendments, with the approval of the Government, were mainly rejected by the members of the ruling party's committee. Recalling the main principles of the bill, it should be noted that the main objective of the bill is to eliminate the so-called. a gray area for games on slots and games on the Internet. The project generally extends significantly the scope of gambling and includes gambling by state monopoly. The extension of the offer consists of introducing numbers games and money lottery into the Internet, arranging games on slots not only in casino games, but also in arcades on slots and offering online gambling. The project also assumes liberalisation of the rules of poker and allows you to organize casino games via the Internet, performed by a state company. Similarly, a state monopoly is introduced in slot arcades. The project also includes the problem of protecting players from the negative effects of gambling, as well as raising the level of public awareness of risks, and we consider this to be a very important problem. To this end, it is possible to block access to websites offering illegal gambling, to prohibit payment services from being made available by providers of these services to illegal operators, and thus to hinder payment. All applicants for a licence or a permit to operate will be required to draw up and apply the rules of procedure of the responsible game to be approved by the Minister of Finance. He covers in detail who, when, on what terms... I'm not going to talk about those details anymore, but it's a very important document. The project does not change taxes related to gambling. Neither the tax rates nor the form of their settlement are changed, while it is the extension of the catalogue of entities subject to monetary penalty and a significant increase in the amount of penalties for illegal operators. The penalties will not only be imposed on operators who organise gambling in breach of a licence or a permit, but also on those who own the premises, those who violate the rules on blocking websites, payment agents, and those who perform managerial functions in operators who organise gambling without a licence. In conclusion, we believe that the gambling market needs to be organized. The current level of state control over the gambling market is insufficient and we do not see a contraindication for gambling to be covered by the state monopoly. A very important problem to pay particular attention to is the issue of addiction, the protection of players from the negative effects of gambling, and the raising of public awareness of these risks. And on these issues, we are looking forward to a decisive improvement in the situation. We hope that the state monopoly on gambling will not only be fiscal, but above all preventive and protective against its negative effects. That's why we're going to vote. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as recommended by the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u189	Thank you very much, Member. And Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan will perform on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the current law on gambling has major shortcomings and serious shortcomings, we all know. The regulations contained in it are conducive to the development of the grey zone, and so far the faulty solutions have brought only losses to the Polish budget. The aim of the proposed amendment is to change today's gambling reality. Liberalisation of certain rules, tightening up others, increasing financial penalties are solutions that our government believes should produce the desired results, mainly increasing the safety of people enjoying the form of entertainment, such as gambling, but also reducing the gray area. It is also important that budget revenue is expected. Among the most controversial solutions of this amendment are e.g. access to state monopoly for a large part of gambling and blocking illegal gambling websites. I see nothing controversial in ensuring a high level of protection for players against the negative effects of gambling, which guarantees the far-reaching requirements contained in the revision when organizing games. Requirements that will also help reduce the amount of abuse that favours the principles of responsible gaming organisation. I also see nothing controversial about blocking illegal services. I'm not convinced by the argument that if anyone wants to, they'll find a way to override the blockade. This is not the reason why, as a state, we should stop doing activities aimed at regulating gambling in Poland, because it is a matter which is currently practically not regulated at all, and the current law is simply called a legal buble. The fact that the project is notified by the European Commission is important in the process, which casts out part of their arguments to the opponents of this amendment. It is also important that according to the announcement of the Ministry of Finance this is the first step taken to repair gambling law in Poland, in my opinion - a step in the right direction. About Free and Solidarni supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u191	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Paweł Pudłowski to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u192	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have a draft law on amending the Act on Gambling and some other laws after work in committee. In principle, the main principles of the bill remain unchanged. The PiS government, after 7 years of action of the wrong law introduced by the PO-PSL government, citing the fight against the grey zone in the gambling environment and raising the level of protection of citizens against the harmful effects of gambling, offers us solutions even worse, as if from a completely different era - monopoly and prevention censorship. The key solution contained in the new gambling law is to introduce a state monopoly in games on slots outside casinos. The government believes that by introducing a monopoly, it will eliminate the grey zone. Unfortunately, in the countries that were covered by the monopoly, these solutions did not work out and were withdrawn from them. For example, Spain, Italy and Denmark. Monopoly is unfortunately not the answer, and the protection of young people against gambling introduced by this method in the above mentioned. countries have unfortunately proved illusory. Gambling is now undoubtedly a huge business, producing up to a few percent of GDP in developed countries. In gambling itself, well organized and controlled, there is nothing wrong, gambling has many faces. These are card games, including poker, roulette, slot machines, online games, sports betting. It is an entertainment both for better citizens when it comes to casino games as well as for those poor ones who hope to win at Lotto bets. The problem is, of course, pathological gambling, which is gambling addiction. In this case, the law does offer some good solutions, but the fact is that, regardless of the model of regulating gambling in different countries, the number of addicts remains relatively stable between 1% and 3%. So regardless of whether the gambling state prohibits or, on the contrary, lives on, a similar number of citizens will be lost in these games. In addition, for the purchase or leasing of slots, supervision of information systems, organization of salons, maintenance of these premises, lease and employment the state as a monopoly will have to spend about PLN 5 billion. Where's the money coming from? Who's gonna run this project? The lack of public consultation should also be highlighted, although the issues raised are important for the freedom of individuals and the principles of use, e.g. from the Internet. Therefore, we recommend not to throw into one bag of hard gambling, one-handed bandits or casino games with bookmakers or card games such as poker, but in a wise way use the money that can be earned from the gambling market, increase the proceeds to the budget, employment, support the Polish sport, while at the same time protecting young people from the harmful effects of gambling by appropriate education. In Poland, normality and common sense should prevail in the field of gambling. In our view, following the Danish example, these regulations should be introduced on the market. Ladies and gentlemen, the state-of-the-art proposal to reject the proposed bill at second reading is to begin extensive public consultation and testing the possibility of introducing the aforementioned Danish model in Poland, which is based on a tax on gross operator revenue of 20%, legal sponsorship of sport and properly regulated advertising possible for all legal operators in this market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u193	Thank you very much. Five members were included in the list of Members. Anyone else want to sign up? No. I'll close the list then. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz club will be the first question to be asked.15 Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask the question of how it will be now after this revision of online games, which are partly random. They are on foreign servers, there are plenty of players involved in them, but there are no payouts, no in-kind prizes, there are premium accounts for which players pay. Will these games be treated as gambling and there will be huge obstacles to accessing foreign servers, will they be blocked, or will players, tens, hundreds of thousands of players, will be able to enjoy entertainment that has nothing to do with gambling, despite the entry into force of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u195	Thank you very much, sir. Another question, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First question concerning the bill to the Minister: What preventive measures have been applied to anti-corruption activities under this law? Do we have anti-corruption protection? This is because we are talking about a bill, which is a law that talks about big money and about which there is very big money, and the cost of 5 billion in all of this is a small piece of money. My second question to the Minister: Who cares more about this law: the Minister of Science or the Minister of Finance, because I feel that there is some confusion here? I know that this bill is as dimpled as Swiss cheese, as we can see, still needs a lot of adjustments. Don't you think, Minister, that it might be worth further detailing that the bookmakers operating in Poland, which have the consent of the Minister of Finance of Poland, are those who have the right to act, and we are finally ending this gray area of bookmakers operating illegally and exploiting the legal gap? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u197	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask three short questions. The first question concerns a network of automatics deployed throughout Poland. Is it true that based on the provisions of the Act adopted in 2009, during the Civil Platform and PSL, in our space, there are about 60,000 in Poland. non-registered slots and those that work in so-called. The gray area? The second question concerns addiction. Does the Ministry of Finance follow, what is the level of dependence in our country on gambling and what is the scale of suicide? I have to say, in my office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In just a few years of experience, I have had three such cases. Is it true that, during the work of both the subcommittee and the commission, the opposition pointed out the solutions that it had put in place in the law, as it itself argued, would make it possible to obtain more revenue from the State? Marshal, I would like to make amendments to this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u199	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Gambling addiction is undoubtedly a growing social problem. According to the Minister of Finance, will the state monopoly be more effective in the prevention of gambling addiction? Does the Ministry have analyses and studies on this matter? Does the Ministry have any idea how to prevent addiction, and when will this program start implementing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u201	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to join this question about anti-corruption protection, this anti-corruption shield when working on this bill, so that the Minister will explain how the draft of this law was done before he went to the Sejm. Secondly, Mrs Zuby's allegation is very serious, and so how much has he eliminated illegal slot machines in 2016 through Customs? How is this market of illegal slots estimated today? The last two cases, how much can we afford to spend PLN 5 billion so that the state can deal with games of chance. Two very specific cases. The State transfers to operators and financial institutions the costs of blocking websites with illegal games and blocking payments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I would like to ask what the costs are in this regard, because there is no such information in the impact assessment of the regulation, these environments or these entities. At the same time, state revenue is not the most important thing for you. The most important thing is how families will function without pathology, without addiction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Pudłowski, the Modern Club, will ask the last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Monopoly is a dying species. I have a few questions and I'm asking you to answer in writing. What makes you think this area would be a state monopoly? Where will PLN 5 billion come from for investments in this area? And who in the government has the qualifications and perhaps experience to deal with the organization of this part of the sector of our economy? Please answer me. This is serious because on the one hand you are talking about pathology, you are talking about people being addicted, that you want to teach them, but on the other hand you are trying to organize this area yourself, and our public funds will be dedicated to it. So these are my questions. Please respond to them. Thank you very kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u205	A motion for rejection in writing, right? The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. So please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I thank you kindly for the discussion at second reading for presenting the positions of the various parliamentary clubs, but in a special way I thank Mrs Maria Zubie as chair of the subcommittee which was called to draw up this document, this law, to proceed on this document between the first and second readings. I would like to thank the Committee on Public Finance and all the countries that are leaning forward on this difficult issue. Undoubtedly, over the past years, we have been dealing with leaving this area, especially since the so-called. gambling scandals, in a space that gave large scope for action to often foreign entities, which did not subordinate to the Polish law, which were perhaps more wishfulfulful than effective as a result of the omissions of the government of PO-PSL after the gambling scandal and led to the functioning of this sphere really to absurdity, as is often demonstrated by game salons that offer services outside licenses previously licensed on gaming machines. This is a sphere that is visible to every citizen in Poland, which causes that many people who are just concerned about the dependence of young people and all citizens on this gambling offer in the care of their health, in the care of their safety... This raises concerns and concerns among the Members, but also the Minister of Finance, other ministers received a number of reminders from the public with a proposal to regulate this sphere, to regulate it on such principles as are in other countries, on a much better basis, because it must be said that it would certainly not be all the trouble and perhaps it would be unnecessary to amend the law if the existing rules were working well, but it is not. This is borne out by the fact that the failure to notify previous amendments to the Gambling Act has often caused divergent court rulings in similar cases to be contradictory and not to effectively influence the inhibition of the development of the grey zone and the prevention of the entire area into a regulated area which would be subject to the Polish tax system and the Polish system of protection of persons with regard to their safety or limiting conditions conducive to increasing the number of people subject to addiction. Ladies and gentlemen! The government project was prepared under the shield of the CBA anti-corruption shield in the Ministry of Finance. This may not be the right time, because we are not finishing the bill, but I wanted to thank all those who have worked with commitment on this document. The decisions on the scope of regulation, the direction of regulation were taken by properly empowered persons, by the Minister of Finance, by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, by the Council of Ministers, and this is today in the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! I listen to the discussion and understand all kinds of demands, opinions from this place. You are entitled to this and you can always say: I would have done it like this, I would have done it differently, we would have done it better, but some decisions had to be made on this road. The decisions that have been made, as I say, by properly-established people, were that we leave casinos in the existing formula, we leave bets on each other in a part of the market where commercial operators can participate and apply for this offer, and move to the monopoly of the state gambling market on the Internet and the slot machines market. It seems that, like the Scandinavian countries, we know that their system of regulation in difficult areas, not only tax, but in other social spheres, is a model system in Europe... Both Sweden, Norway and Finland have similar solutions in this regard. So we had different mechanisms to choose from, but this one was chosen and this one was proposed in the bill. Of course, the question is why not leave the commercial. It may be ugly to say that for the past six years, commercialization has shown the standard in which it wants to move, because I will mention that many types of entertainment or games offered today in this sphere could be legally performed for obtaining permission, but foreign companies in Poland simply did not exist for such permission, ignoring the whole system of law and the whole state. This is part of the answer to the question, which also appears here from the Kukiz Club15 about why today not allow all entities for a certain fee, not apply tax absolution when applying for participation in the provision of gambling services by foreign entities. There are even different calculations here, completely unfounded amounts, as regards the fact that such abolition could be applied to the benefit of the revenue of the State budget. First of all, there is no limit that exists today in this area. Foreign entities will be able to apply for a license and operate both casinos and, as so far, betting betting, while in this area where we leave a monopoly, only a public entity in Poland will be able to make an offer on slots and casino offer online. Such a division seems only possible in order to maintain the full discipline of this market so that it operates within the framework of the new Gambling Act which has been imposed on it, and if there are any amounts falling in respect of the fact that foreign entities which have so far operated in the grey area could carry out these services after the application of the abolition fee, we say this: since 2015 it has been possible and will still be possible to apply for such services, but we do not want to create additional barriers to entry into this market, because the European Commission, which notified the government draft law at the end of November this year, could consider that this is a violation of the principles of free movement of services and impose a certain restriction. Let me just add that it would be very difficult to estimate what kind of amounts certain operators, certain groups of operators would have to pay for entering the market. This could also be challenged in court, and it is already difficult to imagine a verification of what kind of entitlement and what part of the market someone would receive. Calling on countries such as, for example, Romania is so inadequate to the situation in Poland that there these entities actually paid some small amounts, but also for the market share of the so-called. Hard gambling, that is, in the slot machines market. This will not be done in Poland because this part of the market is monopolized. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I will now move on to more detailed explanations. The question is how many illegal slot machines have been detained recently. I have already mentioned that this is a difficult and complicated procedure, because after stopping the machine, the entity can contest this decision also in court and there are different judgments due to the lack of notification of the rules. Since 2009, amendments to the law have been notified inconsistently, and some automatics can be returned after the judgment of the court, others can be stopped effectively, while the cost of these automatic machines, which currently operate on the market, is small, so they can easily be imported into Poland and used by the entire legal instrument and criminal regulations in this respect in relation to the ease of import of such devices to Poland is completely inadequate in terms of expenditure in the fight against the grey zone. For example, in 2014 14 257 slots were stopped, in 2015 - 30 248 slots, until November 2016 - 23 167 slots. I will also remind you that at the time when the licenses for the legal use of slots were in place, around 70,000 were issued, and then gradually after the gambling event they were reduced in such a way that no one today has a license in this sphere except for casino games that can legally offer games on slots and do so. The aim of the bill is to limit the gray zone and protect players. This is the basic objective of this law and in answer to Mrs Zuby's question, I will also say that in this respect it would be worth recalling some statistics that say that in 2012 in a way that could lead to addiction played 3,7% Poles aged 15+, of which 0,2% he's already had a serious problem with that. In 2014, these indicators are higher, the symptoms of addiction are 5.3% Poles, including 0.7%, are highly at risk of gambling. The group with the highest proportion of people at risk of addiction is young people aged between 18 and 24. The level of addiction involves a kind of games grown by players. The safest are the numbers games of the Sports Totalizator, the vast majority of players do not have any symptoms of gambling addiction. Scratches and participation in lotteries or SMS competitions are also relatively safe. Mostly so-called. heavy users, i.e. people who play daily or several times a week, is among the players in the game Sports Totalizator - 3.8% , playing on slots - 1,4% and scratch cards - 1,0%. Total 7.1% Poles aged 15+ are people playing any of the games for money every day or several times a week, at least twice. The estimated number of pathological gamblers in Poland is about 28 thousand and the number of people treated is 3141. This is where they asked who was responsible for the introduction of the treatment programs. That's the job of the Minister of Health. The Minister receives 3% of the so-called funds for this task. the amount of aid that the Totalizator Sports has, and we do not change these proportions, just as in the Act we do not touch the tax sphere at all, and this issue was also raised here as a panacea, a means to solve many issues and problems. A representative of the Modern Club was referred to as the best Danish solutions. I want to tell you that I have a full analysis of this market ahead of me, and Poland is introducing symmetrical solutions to Danish, except that as far as taxes are concerned, the tax base for us will be the turnover of the operator and in Denmark the net income of the operator. In this case, the rate in Poland is 12% and in Denmark 20%. As regards the possibility of operators and licensing policy, in Poland it is an open policy and commercial operators will be able to apply for various types of offers in this space, while in Denmark there are much higher requirements for obtaining a license. Besides, we have symmetrical solutions here. Once again, I stress that income is not the purpose of this regulation, which is why we did not touch - to demonstrate this fact - at all tax regulations. Of course, one can imagine a situation in which this law will be subject to another novel in some time, and in a calm discussion we will be able to return to this subject, but today we wanted to ignore this aspect, so as not to focus the attention of the public, the Members and the Senators on this element and to focus on those elements that need urgent regulation. I would like to come from the finance department, where the law was created, and to inform you that we are in this phase of the project, but that was not possible, because only the European Commission needed four months for the final document that left the Ministry of Finance, and then for the Council of Ministers, to refer to whether this document could be notified, so that there was no further situation, that the judge would be able to decide otherwise in a case on a case-by-case basis, using only the argument of failure to notify. So it is not easy to create such a document and these standards here are very demanding and, above all, time-consuming, very time-consuming. There were also questions as to whether the operation was so called. blocking payments will be costly. Well, not in our opinion. I would like to say here that during the last 4 months, but also when it was known that the bill was being created, we received a number of monits, a number of letters addressed to the Ministry of Finance, in which various kinds of comments were submitted. All these comments have been analysed, so that we have not acted without such consultations as were possible in this formula. And, for example, The association of Polish Banks did not contest the fact that the provisions on the illegal cooperation of payment institutions with entities which illegally offer gambling services in Poland were introduced in the Act. We are generally concerned that on the websites that will be offered in Poland, or rather on which the attempt will be made to be offered outside the legal system, there will be no icons that will allow payment services to be performed. And this operation is very simple for banks, because it's going to mean that with entities that don't have a license, banks just won't sign contracts. This will not be an action requiring every follow-up, but a much more stable action resulting from the will of the parties. We believe that financial institutions which are also obliged to implement the Anti-Marketing Act from undisclosed or illegal sources will carry out their basic task, which they have been doing for many, many years and for which they have not reported protests. Of course, it is also subject, say, to the need for a certain reference or clarification of the question of blocking websites. In this respect, I would also like to reassure you that we have an appeal procedure. If someone feels wronged and considers that the Minister of Finance, who has the power to block these parties or rather to disclose those parties that offer such services illegally, does so in a material and technical way, so if such an entity does not agree, he has the right to object and prove that he does not offer gambling, and then a decision which may be contested to the regional administrative court will be issued. Or the Supreme Administrative Court. So we have a appeal path here. But I agree with the fact that a certain novel and a good tool is a tool that allows the finance minister to disclose these pages and to name those pages that without a license offer this type of service in a very fast way. This is an immediate action in practice. This may cause concern, but only those who do not intend to act legally in Poland. And I can't imagine anybody who cares about being protected and not having this kind of gray zone loose, being worried about this matter. A figure of 5 million appears as the cost of launching this infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, this amount is completely unreal, because then - just make a simple bill - one game device would have to cost 140 thousand. The ones that function today cost from, say, several hundred zlotys, from several thousand zlotys. I don't want to simulate how much this new device can cost, but it certainly isn't that kind of money. I think it's a mistake, mediocrely counting -- if we're talking, we're thinking about a good device of this class -- a government of greatness. So I'm calming everyone down here. In addition, if this system is sealed, the monopoly operator of the State will be able, in my opinion, to decide easily whether or not he leases such equipment or rents it or buys it. It will, of course, take some time to build this infrastructure, and I do not want to simulate it here, but the law will begin to produce good results and good fruit after it enters into force, because it will not be possible to continue the illegal games actually offered today. They won't be able to continue. We can easily imagine what that will mean. It seems that the new quality of what is allowed and what is prohibited - and this is also the state monopoly - is the only solution that can seriously reduce the grey zone today. How big is it? Let the answer to the State be even from such an calculation that at the time when the market for vending machines was operating on the basis of authorisation, we had this permit for legally functioning vending machines of about 70,000, that the flows in the gambling market, those documented, available for the basis of fiscal dimensions for these activities, amounted to 20 billion. It was 2009. In 2015, however, they decreased by half to 10 billion. Imagine - and here we're not talking about online gambling records at all, we're just talking about what was going on in the casino area, the betting area, the totalizator - what a drastic loss of everything that worked in the legal zone has occurred during these years. Count it. There are specialists in multiplying everything, as well as the effects of this bill, so I'm already leaving it to them and I'm not doing these simple calculations, but these really are multi-billion-dollar amounts. These are multi-billion-dollar amounts. I thank you here for your kind words on this document, thank you for the support expressed by some clubs today for the position of the Committee on Public Finance. I take this as a compliment to the people who are trying to regulate this difficult area. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is important that we do not breach the notification by accepting this document at third reading and in the Senate. All small changes, mostly editorial, some others, in our opinion do not go beyond the scope of the agreed and authorized notification to the European Commission, and we believe that this law will at the moment give such a uniform dimension, which will allow for an accurate, unambiguous interpretation of the law, because this is probably something that is expected by all. I'm just checking to see if there are any questions left here that would be worth asking to answer, but I think I've exhausted the list of basic questions that were addressed during the club appearances and later. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Maria Zuba, wanted to take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank, first of all, the members of the Committee on Public Finance, as well as the members of the Emergency Sub-Committee for their efficient work on the bill, especially the members of the Sub-Committee, for being willing to engage in the work on this law so that we can adopt it again this year. Thank you very much for that. Thank you to all of these people. I would like to thank the representatives of the entities who have responded with us, who have sent - at least to me - their comments and observations on this law. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to express my thanks to the Sejm Analysis Office for the opinions, for the requests, for the comments submitted, and thank you to the staff of the secretariat of the Public Finance Commission for the fact that today we can be at this stage of work in the committee on this law. That's the credit. Thank you very much for all these people and for this efficient work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u209	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled and the motion to reject it, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the European Agreement on Main Inland Waterways of International Interest (AGN), published in Geneva on 19 January 1996 (prints No 1015 and 1087). I ask Mr Stanisław Lamczyk to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, hereinafter: AGN, drawn up in Geneva on 19 January 1996. The intention of the agreement is to develop international transport on inland waterways in Europe, which is low cost compared to other land transport modes and has a number of environmental advantages, starting with a reduction in the adverse environmental impact of the transport sector. In particular, it aims to establish the legal framework necessary to establish a coordinated development plan, to build a network of inland roads of international importance on the basis of agreed infrastructure parameters. Their network, contained in the AGN agreement, is divided into nine main water transport routes of 27 000. km that connects ports of more than 37 European countries. I do not hide that ratification is very expected, because schools in Poland are still training sailors, but unfortunately they do not have a job, they cannot get a job in Poland and have to work with a Western company. One of such schools is the Inland Navigation Technique in Nakle nad Notecy, which I am a graduate of. And that's why I keep in touch with the school all the time. There, they are deeply affected by this ratification. In addition, in my previous term of office, I had the opportunity to chair the parliamentary group for the regeneration of the Vistula. As part of this team we had specialists who spoke about the importance of the Vistula River, but also the entire network of rivers in Poland, as well as specialists who carried out expansion, revitalization in the Czech Republic. The company Spelwar from Tricity performed very large works there. The Baltic daily also runs a water road on the Vistula. So it is a highly valued ratification also in Pomerania, where ports develop in such a period of about 10% per year. And Vistula or Odra are very desirable rivers, because they can further develop these ports. In the medium and long term, the development of infrastructure for inland waterway transport will benefit both economically, financially and socially and environmentally. The economic effects of the agreement are divided into several categories. In a strategic dimension for the Polish economy, the main beneficiary of the development of inland transport will be the dynamically developing largest seaports in which it will be, in addition to road and rail transport, an integral mode of transport providing an efficient connection to the facilities. In Poland, as we know, the TEN-T network includes roads: the E30 linking the Baltic Sea with the Danube in Bratislava, including the Odra River in Poland from Świnoujście to the border with the Czech Republic, and the E40 binding the Baltic Sea with the Black Sea - the route leads from Gdansk first to Vistula, Narwa, Bug to Brest, and then to Dnieprem in the Chernobyl region, formerly through Kiev, New Kachowka to Kherson. The third route is the E70. It leads from Holland to Russia, to Lithuania. In Poland it runs the Oder from the Hawel channel to the mouth of Warta in Kostrzyn, via the water Vistula - Odra, to Bydgoszcz lower Vistula, through the Vistula to Szkarpawa, through the mouth Nogatu and the Vistula Bay. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Maritime Affairs has planned, prepared a project on the development of inland waterways for the years 2016-2020 and with a view to 2030. I'm not hiding that the costs are very high, but we have to start somewhere. The important thing is that there are plans that are to reactivate AGN. The content of the AGN agreement is in line with the legal provisions and will not require changes in the national legal order at this stage, and therefore the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs jointly recommend the adoption by the High Sejm of a draft law on ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance contained in print No 1015. There is also the opinion of BAS, which says that this is in line with the Constitution. Ratification, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, is going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u212	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present our position towards the Government's draft law on ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, [[AGN]] prepared in Geneva on 19 January 1996 The development of inland waterway transport is one of the priorities indicated in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The accession of the Republic of Poland to the AGN Agreement is one of the objectives of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation set out for 2016. The ratification of the Agreement is one of the most important initiatives undertaken and implemented by the Government of the Republic of Poland for the internationalisation of inland waterway transport in the context of cooperation with both the European Commission and neighbouring countries, including. V4, which form part of the TEN-T trans-European transport links network. Poland, becoming a party to this international agreement, clearly declares the objective of actions aimed at revitalising inland waterway transport. I'll move on because I only have three minutes. The key elements of potential sources of financing for future investments are listed among others. appropriations from the budget of the European Union, inter alia from programmes such as the CEF and other programmes financed by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, from financial instruments from the European Fund for Strategic Investments under the Juncker plan, from private sources, including from entrepreneurs interested in, in particular, the development of the energy potential of rivers, port owners or logistics enterprises within the framework of public-private partnerships, from the budgets of local authorities, from the state budget and special purpose funds. But the most important are the benefits of joining the AGN agreement. They can be divided into several categories, the scope of which is the following: the implementation of the European Union transport strategy. Once the standards set out in the AGN agreement have been reached, Polish waterways will be able to become intentionally part of the trans-European TEN-T transport network, which will facilitate the acquisition of funding from the European Union budget. Secondly, international cooperation. The accession of AGN will include the strengthening of international cooperation, in particular with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Belarus and Ukraine, with the members of the agreement. At the same time, Poland as a party to the AGN agreement will conduct a dialogue with the Federal Republic of Germany on the adaptation of the border section of the Odrzańska Waterway. Economic issues. The development of inland waterway transport is expected to lead to increased demand for water transport services and means of transport. The main beneficiary of the development of the economy sector will become the most important maritime ports for which inland transport will be an important mode of transport, ensuring an efficient connection to the facilities. Social issues. The development of inland waterways will result in significant and measurable benefits for avoiding flood costs or forest fires, as well as the benefits of water retention for the population, agriculture and industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done. And environmental issues. The development of inland transport, which is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport, will contribute to the European Union's environmental objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, drawn up in Geneva on 19 January 1996. High Izbo, this draft law is de facto the mandate of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify an international agreement in which we commit ourselves to ensuring on the waterways covered by the agreement navigation conditions meeting the criteria applicable to inland waterways of international importance, so-called. Class E corresponding to at least IV sailing class. The prior agreement expressed in the Act is necessary as the agreement concerns a significant financial burden on the State. There is no detailed financial data on planned investments, generally estimated at about PLN 70 billion. Minister Grybarczyk is in the media announcing powerful investments. On the other hand, the current Deputy Minister Materna recently complained in the Senate, and I quote: In the current future budget we do not have funds for feasibility studies for large investments for Oder, for the Vistula, for the Silesian Channel. We've invited all the ports to back us up. The speech is also about the so-called. Leaving, about the vehicles in which our ports are to participate. It's disturbing, Minister. The question arises as to whether the investments announced with this great Tromtadration will find real sources of funding and whether this will not be at the expense of other sectors of the economy, businesses, including ports which have their own, very high investment needs, or consumers, for example. in the form of excessive water charges. Listening to the minister, I often feel a lack of a sense of limited resources. I feel that a collision with the ground will occur sooner or later, as with the European Commission in the case of the so-called. the January bill. It would certainly be less painful if the investments announced were more closely linked to specific sources of funding from the beginning, so that we could vote with full awareness of what we are doing and the related responsibility. In the current situation, we only have to acknowledge that the deadline for fulfilling the obligations described in the agreement is not set, so we can chase the rabbit virtually indefinitely. Today we are dealing with a declaration of intent, and we all want the waterways to be nautical, so we will vote in favour of this project. The details of the Minister's investment plans will be addressed when he presents them to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] real sources of funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! For this document, for this agreement or, as it was said before, for this AGN convention there are inhabitants of Poland everywhere. It is not just about transport issues, although this document speaks about river transport. It is about issues of national and energy security of the Polish state. What's been going on here? mentioned, which is the main benefit of signing this convention, is that Wielkopolska, Kujawy, part of Pomerania change or steppe, or are flooded by floods. The cascading of the Vistula - a few degrees - makes it really possible for us to look into the future safely and look into the eyes of farmers. First of all, Minister, thank you very much. I remember a year ago when we set up a team in charge of revitalization and economic exploitation of Polish rivers, as we spoke with representatives of your ministry as well, and we heard what Mr Grabarczyk wrote in response to the interpellation in 2011 that this is impossible, we cannot sign this agreement because we do not have a fourth class of navigability of international waterways. We spoke like Slovakia: this is not true, this agreement can lead to Poland finally becoming a museum. As we look at the map of Europe, there is no such place, there is no such country in Europe, where water transport is dependent on the methodology of counting 0,4 and 0.6% of freight transport. This agreement really brings Poland out of a very deep open-air museum. I'm sure we can do that. Financial issues. That won't be 70 billion. I think it's gonna be a lot more than that. This, on the other hand, will be less than the costs that we bear today because of drought, floods, the transfer of all this transport to roads. Ladies and gentlemen, from the heart, how many people will not die on the roads by appearing on the rivers of the barge? I'm sure that's a good idea. I'm sure I'll vote in favour. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u217	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Piotr Misja, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Currently, there is increasingly talk of comprehensive modernization of Polish inland waterway transport. However, statistics are not optimistic. According to analyses prepared by the UN, waterways in Poland, except for short sections on the lower Oder and lower Vistula, do not meet the minimum international conditions of navigability, i.e. the fourth class of navigability. In this context There is no way to fail to recall the UN's European agreement on the main... Sorry, wrong number. Statistics are not optimistic. According to analyses prepared by the UN, waterways in Poland, except for short sections on the lower Oder and lower Vistula, do not meet the minimum international conditions for navigability. In this context the UN's agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, also called the AGN Convention or the AGN Agreement, cannot be recalled. In principle, this act creates a legal framework to facilitate the coordination of plans for the development and investment of existing international inland waterway transport. The main aim is to ensure that transport by inland waterways in Europe is even more efficient and attractive to both users and operators. It is worth adding that the agreement sets out the technical parameters to be met by international inland waterways. Main targets. In its findings, the AGN refers to the network of the European waterways system within the trans-European transport network - roads marked with the symbol E. It also sets out priority investment projects, which, taking into account the requirements of modern technologies, are intended to lead to the elimination of the so-called. narrow throats, i.e. these elements of roads E, whose parameters do not meet the current requirements of international waterways, i.e. they have a class lower than IV, so-called. basic bottlenecks, or although they do not meet the requirements of Class IV, should be modernised in order to improve their quality and allow the volume of transport to increase, so-called. strategic bottlenecks, the elimination of missing links consisting of the formation of currently non-existent but part of a future network of international waterways. AGN Convention and Poland. In relation to Polish waterways, the following qualifications and types are included in the recommendations resulting from the AGN agreement: strategic narrow throat - river Odra from Widuchowa to Szczecin, basic narrow throat - river Odra from Koźl to Widuchowa and the Gliwicki Canal, river Wisła: from Warsaw to Płock and from Włocławek to Gdańsk, river Bug: from Brest to Lake Zegrzynski, Canal Żerański: from Lake Zegrzynski to Wisła [[♪ The bell ♪]] and missing connections: channel Odra - Danube - Elbe. Territorial scope. The network of waterways included in the AGN agreement covers the area from the Atlantic to the Urals, thus linking 27 European countries, including Poland, through which they run three of the shipping routes included in the list of standards and parameters of the network of waterways of international importance listed in the Blue Paper issued on the basis of the AGN: E30 agreement, linking the Baltic Sea with the Danube in Bratislava...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u219	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u220	I'm almost done, Marshal. ... E40 and E70. Finally, it is worth pointing out that more than 20 European countries are among the signatories to the AGN Convention. These are among others. France, the Netherlands, Germany, the Czech Republic or Hungary. As you know, Poland is not present in this group, but in recent times the need for the Republic to adopt the convention is increasingly highlighted. This would significantly improve the state of Polish waterways and stimulate the economy in this segment. N is in favour of ratifying this convention and that is how we will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. But you did talk more than a minute longer. [[I'm so sorry, Marshal.]] Please, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u222	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law submitted by the government on ratification of the European Agreement on Main Inland Waterways of International Interest 1996 is an important document, an important piece of legislation which also gives us the opportunity to analyse today or in the coming days the state of our waterways. You have to start somewhere. It is good that here we are talking - as in the speeches, in the speeches of my previous speakers - about the current state of our rivers, but we are also talking about the importance of these rivers because of the geographical location of our country. We believe that this is our chance to analyze, diagnose. We should define this in time and define the possibilities for action, divide it into stages. I agree that the draft document does not talk much about financial resources, but in certain areas there are indications of sources of funding and subsequent steps that are possible to move on, of course, under favourable conditions and with commitment and appropriate preparation. Therefore, I believe that taking these measures will help, and even will cause, a factor that will make countries work together in another area, particularly those neighbouring countries, and that we will be able to talk about economic objectives, social objectives, environmental objectives. We will also be able to talk about the need to implement the so-called provisions. The White Paper, which sets some assumptions and sets some commitments over time on the differentiation of modes of transport over the coming decades. Our club will support these actions that we will complete - we are convinced, together - the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u223	Thank you very much, sir. Eight Members joined the questions. Anyone else want to join the list? If not, I'm shutting her down. Question time - 1 minute. As the first Mr Norbert Obrycki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u224	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As we run three months into the future - when we are following the adoption of this law and will be a final party to the European agreement on major inland waterways of international importance - I would like to ask whether ports which are not currently mentioned in the agreement will be included in the form of an annex or other agreement. I mean strategic ports for the economy, e.g. for the Polish chemical industry, like the port in the Police - seaport and river port in Odra. In this port the Grupa Azoty ZCH Police is to invest in the coming years at least PLN 300.400 million for the future investment of the plants, the propylene factory. I also know that, during the discussions in the committees, Members also made other proposals, such as: Sandomierz, Puławy or Dęblin. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u225	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u226	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about your calculation of the level of employment and the impact on the labour market of the AGN agreement. I'm talking about that, among other things. in the context of what happened some time ago in Duisburg, where, after betting on river transport, they found about 40,000 jobs. Fired miners. Do you have this type of precalculation, of course concerning the Polish market? I'm talking about it in the context of, among other things. The Bydgoszcz I'm from. Bydgoszcz has been designated as one of the international inland ports in Poland and we have very high hopes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u227	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to pay attention to ratification of the agreement itself, because it is obvious, as the classic says, and all assumptions connected with this convention actually Poland has incorporated into the law long ago, except for these higher classes of navigability, above VI, for which we do not have water in Polish rivers. In fact, this conversation, this discussion today, is about justification. And this justification is really a joyful work that has nothing to do with reality and accounts. Even if the European funds that we could gain from this can be obtained, provided that they comply with these TEN-T water routes under TEN-T, and that the update will only be in 2023, so until then [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the fees of Poles for water... What do you really want to do until then? Feasibility studies that make friends? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u229	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask you, Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is certainly a good direction, this is definitely a good convention, we should sign it of course. We have enormous delays in building, in creating inland roads, in water roads. I have a question as a practice, as an architect and as a designer. Minister, we know that there will be such investments, but I wanted to ask you if we are investmentally prepared for them. Will future tenders be built as part of the idea to design and build? Will we, as a country today, be conducting feasibility studies, various geological studies, environmental studies, so that the future construction of canals can be carried out very efficiently? We have many examples in the direction where we have well-designed conceptual projects, but I am particularly concerned with the E40 channel from the Prague Port, from the central Vistula. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Belarus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask you, Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u232	We are aware of how difficult and costly this is, but we are also convinced that the effectiveness of these expenditures can be impressive. Effectiveness, i.e. effects on inputs, can be impressive in every way. I am very pleased personally, and I am also saying this on behalf of many communities, including social and scientific communities, who have long been interested in this, that the current government has passed this law allowing ratification of this international agreement and thus making up for past negligence, long-term negligence. I have a question. Among the transport corridors, the Baltic - Adriatic corridor is mentioned in Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project is to be implemented by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It's about roads, it's about transport connections. There are no mentioned waterways, there is no Wisla or Oder. As we knew, the verification wasn't due until 2023. I wanted to ask if there's any way to speed up this verification. Or, for example, Next year, the Baltic Transport Corridor - the Adriatic could not be included in this project, for example, the Vistula or the Oder at least, i.e. the most important of our waterways? Because asked about it the managers of this project, why this happens, that in this transport corridor Baltic - Adriatic there are no Polish waterways, they replied: it is the fault of the Polish government. So what are the chances, and will the current government make efforts in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u233	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal to all of us to make as little policy as possible on this matter, because there is no time for this at all. There's been a lot of negligence over the past few years, and we've wasted enough time. Now all hands on deck, we need everyone working together on this subject to lift the water road from the bottom of Poland as soon as possible. I have a question for the Minister. We know that in order for the Vistula to reach the right level, it is necessary to build water degrees, the entire system of water degrees. Is there at least a concept of order that will be built first? We know that for several years there has been a battle of water in the vicinity of Włocławek. In particular, I would like to ask this degree whether it is a priority task or whether it will be placed first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is known that water transport is the cheapest transport in terms of energy, is the lowest energy consumption to transport at a distance of cargo. I mean whether other modes of transport in Poland are now ready to take over, to transport this freight from the port to the recipient. As you know, waterways are in certain places, there is no greater possibility to reconfigure them, possibly some channels, so adequate infrastructure is required, both road and rail. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this also taken into account? Thank you very much. Excuse me, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about ratification of the AGN agreement, which is intended to create some opportunities, but it also involves the adoption of huge commitments by Poland. This agreement was created when the world was even before the digital revolution, now we know that we are primarily sending bits, not tons, and that the world in which these projects can be realized will look completely different. So it's about raising hope in a responsible way - very responsible - and communicating honestly, what is possible and at what time it is possible. There is absolutely no such thing at the moment, and people make investment decisions by drawing on these hopes. I would like to point out that we have financial constraints, environmental and hydrological constraints, and no one can help with the lack of water. As far as the possibility of sailing in Oder is concerned, at this moment the third class of sailing is 60 days a year and the fourth class - for several days a year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Minister, when are we going to see a real schedule of actions that really says at the end, what and when will it be possible? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I think this is a project - one of the few - that will unite the opposition and the rulers, because of this we have no doubt that the development and deepening of rivers is needed. I would like to ask, referring to what my previous speaker was just talking about, when such a schedule will arise and how you plan to finance it, because these are billions, tens of billions of zlotys. Do you consider extra-budget support e.g. in the form of dedicated bonds on the Chinese market, because we have already issued such bonds on the British market, or some kind of cooperation, something that would be similar to a public-private partnership with Western companies that could provide their know-how and finance this undertaking? For I am aware that from the funds that are in the state budget, we will not be able to bear this, because these amounts are almost PLN 100 billion and this requires expenditure which the Polish budget does not have today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u241	Thank you very much, sir. And Mrs Gabriela Masłowska. Very brief one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u242	Minister! We have before us, as I said, a great task and huge expenses, but we also have great opportunities, huge resources, huge potential. I mean human potential, intellectual potential. I organized a conference on this subject in the Sejm last year and had the opportunity to experience how much knowledge Polish engineers, scientists and institutes have in this area. I was just impressed. In this schedule, which you will prepare sooner or later, are you going to use definitely knowledge, wisdom, experience of Polish engineers, because they are really enormous, and some people are seriously older people, so it is about making time for the great knowledge they have, to use it, to use it for the good of Poland? I would like to draw attention to the necessity that we must rely on this human capital while it still functions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u243	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Jerzy Materna, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u244	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking you very much on behalf of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for the debate on the Government's draft law on ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance (AGN), drawn up in Geneva on 9 January 1996. Thank you for the support of all political groups, because this is rare today. I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for the smooth examination of this draft law at first reading in the committee. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Members who presented their positions on behalf of the clubs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important day, it is an important event for the company's environment and for the whole of Poland. This is the second stage, I will remind you, the first stage was the adoption by the government of 14 June 2016 of plans for the development of inland waterways in Poland for the years 2016 and 2020 with a view to 2030. This law is part of the strategy for the development of the whole inland waterway sector, and in particular for the development of inland waterways. Let me remind you that the network included in the AGN agreement is divided into 9 main water transport routes with a length of more than 27 thousand. km that connects ports of more than 37 European countries. In the territory of Poland there are sections of three main water routes, as you mentioned: E30 water road, i.e. Odrzanka, E40 water road from Gdansk through Warsaw, Brest to Dnieper and E70 water road from Amsterdam through Odra, Warta, Noteć, Wisła, Gdansk to Lithuania. Therefore, Poland, as a member of the Agreement, undertakes to provide on the covered waterways navigation conditions meeting the criteria applicable to inland or inland waterways of international importance at least in the fourth class of navigability. Secondly, during the period of implementation of the AGN agreement, significant financial expenditure will have to be incurred for the reconstruction of existing or construction of new infrastructure with adaptation to the standards set out in the agreement. We are talking about the amount of PLN 70 billion. The ratification of the agreement gives a pass to the potential financial sources, which are, among others. from the European Union, from the Connecting Europe programme, CEF, next, in TEN-T, we are talking about 2017. And this is where I'm going to answer this question: there's a revision and an opportunity, and that's what we want to introduce all these routes. This is where you asked, the Baltic, the Adriatic. So it's going to be this possibility, we're going to want to pursue it, we're going to do everything we can to do it, just like the Odrzaska Waterway and the Baltic - the Adriatic. I hope it will be in 2017. We're making every effort. Further, another source of funding is under the European Fund for Strategic Investments, as part of the Juncker Plan... We have reported three important, large projects for the sum of over PLN 50 billion. If we are talking about sources of funding, among other things. it is going to be a loan at very convenient rates, we are talking about 1 and 3%, granted for 20 and 25 years. We want to create a special purpose company as part of this. We will now proceed to this, to the creation of this special purpose company, which will be composed of the largest companies, ports, energy companies, because we want to build a power plant on every level, so that, among other things, we can build a power plant. there was funding, repayment of these loans. Of course, this applies to private sources, from companies, in particular those interested in developing the energy potential of rivers, port owners or logistics companies. From the budget of local governments. Why? Because we want to build bridges, too. And I hope the local governments are declaring that in some percentage They're gonna finance it, too. From the State budget or special-purpose funds, mainly from sources as own contribution to projects co-financed by the European Union. We also say that in a moment there will be a new Water Law - Polish Waters. We want to create a fund, a Fund for the Development of Inland Waterways, which will also be paying off these loans. So we begin the next phase of the AGN. We are preparing a feasibility study, including: Given the lack of adequate resources in the budget, the budget is already so tight, but we do not give up. That's what our ports are for. One EU directive clearly states that ports, each seaport should have its inland waterway. And among others. - I hope it will be in the form of a loan - we are setting up a company that will finance a feasibility study for three important programmes: for the Odrzaska Waterway, for the Vistula and for the Silesian Channel. I hope that after years, when a special purpose company is established and that it will take European funds, European bank funds, we will be able to pay it back. That is the intention, but in order not to wait for this and not be in a vacuum, we simply plan that ports declare to help. I hope that next year this feasibility study will start, and time is about 1.5 years. That'll give us a lot, a lot of answers. [[Well, I guess that's it, just act now.]] I would also like to answer your questions as to whether the ports will be added. Of course. This is the ratification bill we just want to join. And, of course, there are annexes, and we're going to try to get all the ports that you recognize in order to type in. There's 10 of them today, I'll remind you. [[More Puławy.]] We will start with Świnoujście, then Szczecin, Kostrzyn, Wrocław, Koźle, Gliwice, Gdańsk, Bydgoszcz, Warsaw and Elbląg. These are the ones that are already, you can say, in this 1996 agreement. Of course, the next one, no problem, we'll add up. [[Puławy, I begged for Puławy.]] As far as employment is concerned, I'm sure it's from the research that we have at our disposal in terms of the research done by Energa's company... Prof. Wojewódzka-Król clearly states that if today we put PLN 31.5 billion in the section from Gdansk to Warsaw, leading to the fourth class, then the influence, maybe not directly to the company that will build, but the influence for the state in the form of flood protection, water supply for industry, agriculture, forestry and in general tourism is 18,5 billion a year. So we're talking about the fact that this is actually the kind of thing that goes back in two years. So how do you do it so you don't do it? We have to do this. [[Exactly.]] Next, with regard to this revision, I said it would be 2017. We hope that we will then enter it into TEN-T, we will return there if we are talking about the Odrzaska Waterway, where we unfortunately came from, because the previous government has been doing nothing for 8 years and because of this in December 2013 we were erased. We just need to re-enact. [[And today they're scaring too much.]] Are we prepared? It's a long process. Today we have the second element. We're starting a feasibility study. As I said, there will be a further step: the establishment of a special company of destiny. And we want to do this company first... First of all, we want to put more water grades with power plants on the Odrzaska Waterway, in Lubież and Ścinawa, because we know that without even waiting for a study, we have to do it there. As far as the Vistula is concerned, it's sulphur near Włocławek. We'll put it there, too. Energa has already done a lot of work and I hope that in 2018 we will start these construction works. Next question, funding schedule. As I say, we are now starting another stage, once again, feasibility studies, we are setting up a special purpose company. Of course, this company will start acquiring funds from the European Central Bank, the World Bank, and I hope that in 2018 we will start construction works on the Oder, on the Vistula. As I say, once again, I would like to thank all of you, all of you, for your support, for your support for this law. I hope that we will soon begin these essential things that I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u245	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u246	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on a draft law on ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, [[AGN]] prepared in Geneva on 19 January 1996 The bill is one of the elements of Poland's development announced in the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, which emphasized the need to restore navigability on Polish rivers. According to this project, Poland wants to join the European agreement on major inland waterways of international importance. The accession to the agreement will allow for the extension of the network of inland waterways in Poland and is, in my opinion, an appropriate complement to the development of the Polish economy. Implementation of the agreement will enable Poland to join the transport road network with a total length of 27 thousand. It's a kilometer. The agreement obliges Poland to ensure navigability on designated waterways, which, of course, entails costs related to the reconstruction and construction of infrastructure, but will be incurred over many years. Assuming that part of the funds for this investment will come from the European Union budget. However, Poland's accession to this agreement is also profitable for us for political reasons. It will strengthen relations with our closest neighbours, among others. with Slovakia, as well as members of the Visegrad Group. In terms of economic impact, the economic benefits are expected to be accompanied by an increasing demand for transport services in the inland transport sector, as well as for the development of tourism and recreation, which will generate revenue for the state budget and local authorities. The studies that were quoted at the committee meeting indicate that Poland will pay very quickly to invest in the development of inland waterways. During the committee's work, the draft law was examined, which was rarely approved not only by members of the governing coalition but also by the opposition. Taking into account the benefits of this agreement and support, among others. The Council of the Captains of Inland Navigation for ratification, the Free and Solidarni Circle fully supports the procedated bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u247	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code (Prints No 887 and 1074). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code, print No 887. The purpose of the presentation, as the Council of Ministers points out, is to increase employment among persons imprisoned in penitentiary units. The project is intended to contribute to the implementation of another important work programme of prisoners. The Sejm at its 29th meeting on 4 November 2016 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. This was the case at the committee meeting on 29 November 2016. Written opinions were submitted by the National Court of Justice, the State Labour Inspection and the Supreme Court. The meeting was attended by Colonel Artur Dziadosz, Deputy General Director of the Prison Service, Henryk Pawlaczyk, Chairman of the National Council of Curators, patron Marcin Wolny, representative of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. At the meeting of the committee, the draft was presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Patrick Jak. There was a discussion about the project's assumptions. All regulations have been systematically discussed. As part of the amendments tabled, the period of vacathio legis was unanimously reduced to the first day of the month following the expiry of 30 days from the date of publication, so that salaries for convicted persons are charged from the first day of the month. Specific amendments and legislative amendments were also tabled. The bill was adopted because 13 Members voted in favour of the bill, no one opposed it, no one abstained. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the draft law, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law as proposed in the committee's report in print no. 1074. I would like to thank you for the constructive cooperation you and your fellow Members, as well as all the participants in the committee's work. In case of specific questions, we remain available. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u249	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Penal Code Act. From the beginning of the examination of this law, we agree with the objective pursued by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the increase of employment among persons imprisoned in penitentiary units. This project contributes to the implementation of the work programme for prisoners, because it is true that work should be an important part of the execution of prison sentences, because it has a positive impact on both convicted persons - here I am thinking about rehabilitation, development of professional skills, employment opportunities - as well as on the order of prisons. The draft law on amending the law The Code of Criminal Enforcement is aimed, among others. to increase the financial capacity of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works by increasing the deduction for this purpose from the paid work. Reducing the labour costs of inmates increases the attractiveness of such work for entrepreneurs, which in our view should translate into an increase in the employment of those deprived of freedom. We believe that the changes made during the examination of the projects in the Justice Committee are further improving this proposal. We consider it justified, in particular, to shorten vacathio legis to the first day of the month following the expiry of 30 days from the date of the announcement, so that salaries for the sentenced are charged from the first day of the month. We also agree with other clarification amendments and legislative changes. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club supports further work on the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft report presented relates to the draft law, which responds to the situation in prisons, namely the decline in prisoners' employment. This followed the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which ruled that even prisoners should be paid a minimum wage and therefore the attractiveness of the employment of prisoners among entrepreneurs decreased. And it is widely believed that the work of prisoners is an element and rehabilitation, and even, I would say, a variety of life in prison. There is a high demand for work in prisons, prisoners want to work, not to mention that it also affects their material situation, to some extent they may have some of their own money or pay off some of their own commitments that arose earlier, or collect some funds when they get out of prison. It is also important to keep them active while they are in prison, so that they can then get back in and back to normal life. During the discussion in the committee there were some problems raised, some doubts raised. One question was that the scope of free work, which prisoners can carry out up to 90 hours a month, was extended to work for State Treasury companies and local government companies, before which it was only public procurement. In this respect, we have been told by the Minister and his assurance that this will not lead in any way to forced labour in commercial companies of the Treasury, e.g. in mines, because such doubts were reported, that, however, this law only talks about social work - even if it is for the benefit of these companies, it will be purely social and not commercial works. Some doubts were raised. the scale of deductions from the prison pay, up to 45%, to the fund that is used to return the entrepreneur's funds, above all to this - it is also the construction of halls, also other things, but to a large extent it is an incentive for entrepreneurs, it is a reimbursement of costs. It has to be taken into account that, of course, the pay, the prisoner's wages fall then, but at the same time the prisoner has the free cost of living in prison, so that in total it does not even return these maintenance costs or compensate in some way these maintenance costs, and that these low wages, which are effectively - what he gets on his hand - below the minimum wage, is not only a phenomenon in us, but it is quite a common phenomenon elsewhere. Some doubts were raised as to how it would be implemented, how entrepreneurs would be invited to those halls that would arise, whether they would be tenders or competitions. For now, there is no problem, because there is no crowd of entrepreneurs who would volunteer, but such a problem may someday arise in practice. In fact, we believe that this bill is needed. Much will depend on the way it is done, but it offers a chance to stop this negative trend when it comes to the percentage of prisoners employed. And we accept the Ministry's assurances that the Ministry will primarily make efforts to look for opportunities and expand opportunities for paid work for prisoners, and that this is, I would say, the second possibility, which is a complementary possibility. The Civic Platform will continue to support this project once the Minister has clarified all these doubts and we will also follow how it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u253	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Currently, the employment rate of prisoners in Poland is one of the lowest in Europe. This state of affairs cannot be maintained because it has negative consequences for the entire penitentiary system and, above all, increases the ailment of prison sentences. Staying in prison excludes many prisoners from working in the labour market for a while. Isolation and monotony related to prison stay are difficult for many, and therefore prisoners are willing to take up employment. The involvement of convicted workers is a good method of rehabilitation and a way of returning to normal and responsible functioning in society. Those inmates who become known as solid workers will have a better chance of finding employment after leaving the prison. The current defective regulations give prisoners narrow employment opportunities, and thus the maintenance of convicted persons falls on the state. Maintaining a prisoner, mostly a healthy person, costs taxpayers approx. $3,000. monthly. However, I would like to point out that it is necessary that the regulations of the Act contain provisions which will give the prisoners the possibility to regulate current or outstanding liabilities. After all, in addition to the sentence of imprisonment, indemnification, financial penalties are also imposed. In addition, maintenance obligations are an important problem. Therefore, it cannot be that a man, going to prison, is excluded from civil circulation. Every citizen should, as far as possible, earn money for himself and his family, and we, being the rules on inmates, must remember that. The Kukiz Club15 supports and will support any initiatives that broaden the working opportunities for prisoners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u255	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask you, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u256	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code, print no. 1074. There is no doubt that there is currently an inappropriate situation in Poland related to a very small percentage of convicted persons who are employed. This was indeed the result of raising or challenging by the Constitutional Tribunal in one of its judgments the fact that the remuneration of prisoners should be at the minimum wage, which subsequently resulted in less interest of entrepreneurs in employing convicted persons. On the other hand, this draft law provides, in principle, for regulations on the work of convicted persons by extending the possibility of doing this work free of charge to certain entities. Moreover, the catalogue of these entities is extended, which has indeed raised doubts as to whether the sentenced will have to work for commercial operators in a compulsory manner. And this question about the possibility of doing commercial work, I think it still exists, was not eliminated during the work, but we take as a good coin the explanations made by the Minister during his work in the Parliamentary Committee. There is also a question - which also raised our doubts - of increasing the deduction from 20 to 45% the remuneration of convicted persons, which may unfortunately have negative consequences for the victims, but may also affect the obligations of convicted persons, among others. on maintenance obligations, because unfortunately, per balance, those net amounts which the prisoners will receive as a result of these transfers between those... an increase in the amount of the write-down to this occupational activation fund will unfortunately occur. This should also be and will be examined by us whether it will be monitored at a further stage of work. We must make it clear to ourselves that, as this law creates a number of possibilities for prisoners to work free of charge, it is an exception to the rule that prisoners' work is paid. Therefore, we hope that this element of unpaidness or this volunteering will be an introduction to the employment of a paid one. Bottom line. Given certainly the extremely positive impact of work on the process of rehabilitation of convicted persons, as well as maintaining and ensuring order in the Penitentiary Units, the Posel Club The modern government will support this presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act. This proposal will return to the proceedings of the High House following its adoption as unchanged by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Its main goal is to increase employment among people imprisoned in penitentiary units in Poland. In accordance with the current wording of the implementing Penal Code for ordering and auxiliary work carried out for the organisation of the Prison Service or for ordering work for the benefit of the local government, up to a maximum of 90 hours per month, no remuneration shall be payable to the sentenced person. After the planned amendment, this provision is to be supplemented, inter alia. about work for social purposes for entities for which the authority of the municipality, district or voivodship is the body of the founding, state or local organisational units and companies governed by commercial law with the exclusive participation of the State Treasury, the municipality, the district or the voivodship. Social work will also be possible for institutions or organisations representing the local community and educational institutions, youth educational centres, youth sociotherapy centres, medicinal entities within the meaning of the provisions on medical activities, organizational units of social assistance, foundations, associations and other institutions or organisations of general interest providing charitable assistance. This means no less than an extension of the number of entities for which prisoners can carry out work free of charge. It is also worth mentioning here the Supreme Court's opinion on this project, in which the proposed change can contribute to increasing the opportunities for inmates to take up work. In turn, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights estimates that the proposal represents a step towards the reversal of the Code rule, according to which inmates' employment is paid. Here we should ask: Shouldn't we also look for solutions to increase the ability of prisoners to work for pay instead of just expanding the number of persons entitled to work for unpaid work? Let me remind you that at present only 40% Inmates shall carry out works of a paid nature. An attempt to respond to this challenge is to increase the financial capacity of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Industrial Development of Labor Works by increasing from 25 to 45% deductions for this purpose from the remuneration of the convicted person. At the same time from 10 to 7% the reduction of deductions from this remuneration for the harmed and Post-Penitentiary Assistance Fund. Released in this way 3% remuneration is intended to be used for the professional activation of persons deprived of freedom. This solution should encourage businesses to employ convicted persons in a wider way than before. The additional funds of the fund are also intended to be used for the construction of production facilities in the penitentiary units, which should be considered as a favourable solution. Doubts about reducing prison pay should dispel international statistics, which are also worth paying attention to. Poland as one of the few countries currently offers 100% of residents minimum wage for work, while in France and the UK it is 44%, while in Sweden and Hungary it is about 1/3 of the minimum wage. A higher deduction to the Professional Activation Fund will leave prisoners' wages to a higher level than in the countries concerned. In our opinion, the projects discussed today will increase the number of prisoners working for the benefit of themselves, as well as those entitled to work in prison. The project should also have a positive impact on the costs of maintaining the penitentiary system in Poland. Therefore, the Polish People's Party's parliament club is in favour of proceding this law, on this project further. I think that, as a result, it will also support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u259	Thank you very much. Six Members joined the questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? If not, I'm closing the list. [[But I'm saved?]] You're an MP, isn't you? Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, public opinion has been appalled by the cost of living a prisoner. I wanted to ask the Minister: As regards the cost of keeping a prisoner in Poland, estimated at more than 3,000. zł, what is the monthly cost of the prisoner's living after deduction of the cost of the guards' wages and what percentage of prisoners currently work free of charge because the prisoners are mostly employed for free? It is an important element of rehabilitation, but also a way to reduce the cost of keeping prisons. Paying a job is a privilege for a prisoner. What do they spend their money on? Some of them pay alimony and other liabilities for them. The more we cut them off, the more victims of crime will be victimized. I also wanted to add that a lot of this money goes to the current expenses of the inmates, [[♪ The bell ♪]] purchase of food and cleaning products. Convicts don't have a choice in which store they supply. Does the Ministry control what product prices canteens offer in prisons? Isn't there monopolistic practices and higher prices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u261	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The work programme for prisoners to build 40 halls from deductions from the wages of prisoners working in prisons is very expected and desirable. Wanted especially because currently only about 30% of prisoners work, and keeping a single prisoner costs nearly PLN 3150 per month. Not without significance is the rehabilitation effect of work, and the effect of social justice, because citizens expect prisoners to earn themselves. It may turn out that this programme will be of great interest to entrepreneurs who wish to use the halls to start their production and benefit from a 40% return the costs incurred for the employment of each prisoner. Minister, a few more specific questions. Will the sentenced be able to work in these halls only for payment, or free of charge, and what will it depend on? If these two forms are possible, where and in what percentage will the equivalent be achieved in each of these cases [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the prisoners' work? As maintenance arrears currently amount to about PLN 1.2 billion, is it considered to give priority to taking up work for those convicted for maintenance arrears? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u263	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u264	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The biggest problem of people who try to enter the labour market after going out of bars is lack of experience and education. The longer the insulation, the greater the problems of returning to employment later. As regards education and qualifications, more and more prisons are trying to counter this by organising different courses and trainings. Prisoners can also finish their studies as part of their punishment. Surely, the government's programme for building production halls in prisons can work in favour of the convicted. This can solve the problem of inexperience and lack of habit of working prisoners. This would certainly make it easier for them to return to their normal lives at large. My question: Could a prisoner count on his previous employment - at least for a limited period - even after he was released? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u265	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's rare for me to praise the government, but in this situation I have to give up the rule and praise. Well, the impact assessment attached to this law is indeed very detailed and if we had more of this type of government action, so prepared impact assessments, the legislative process would certainly be more complete and certainly the quality of the law, which is adopted by the High House, would be better. Turning to the question, Minister, what is the increase in the write-off on the remuneration of those 40 production halls at the prisons, or do we already have entrepreneurs who are interested in this type of project? And maybe the second question. It requires... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will entrepreneurs benefit from a 40% write-off on wages due to the employment of prisoners in these halls? At what stage is the notification in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u267	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, much has been said about the work of prisoners, but so far little has been done. This is the first such a wide programme that will enable prisoners to work - it will allow more than 80,000. people who are convicted, taking up a job, working, paying off their arrears on an ongoing basis and, once they are released without a burden, will have less desire to return to commit crimes. It is known that a significant debt after they are released from prison as if causes that they often return to crime. I have a question about the costs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] salaries, but also ZUS fees or sickness contributions. In turn, what benefits will this be, because it will be brought to the Treasury? Thank you very much. Sorry, Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are giving this law a carte blanche to the resort and prison services extending the possibilities of working towards the employment of prisoners. I have to ask you this question: Would you be willing to commit yourself here that in two years' time we will have some report on how it all works, how it works, how much it works, how much it started to build or how much it was built, how the entrepreneurs responded to these stimuli, whether it really is an interest, whether it works, or whether the percentage of prisoners employed for payment is actually higher? What is the sensitive issue of free employment in social work, for social purposes - that's what it's called - social work in relation to the extended catalogue of institutions that can benefit from it, including commercial companies? How did this rule work in practice? How does it work? In a word: Can we expect a report from you in two years so we can see, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how did this system function, what results it gave, or is there any need to correct it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u271	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jaki, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u272	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I will answer Mr Święcicki's last question: of course, even the report is prepared all the time, quarterly, every quarter. If the Member is interested, the Prison Service is still preparing detailed data on how many prisoners are working, where, where, whether paid or free of charge, we are preparing this information on an ongoing basis. And this is linked to the question of what is the interest in this programme. The interest is very high. For next year we have about 50 applications submitted, i.e. more than 50 halls, and several are already completed. For example, tomorrow is the opening of the hall in Potulice this year, at the Potulice Penitentiary. If any of you are interested, you're welcome. The next question concerned the stage of the notification process. This is the final stage, we've already given all the answers. We hope to get through this notification process soon. There was also a question about the relationship between paid work and unpaid work. Here I would like to stress very strongly that the priority of the Ministry is paid work. Right now, if you look at the statistics today, it's kind of like this: almost 50 over 50. 50% It's a pay-per-view job, and 50% is a pay-per-view job. - free work, but we want to change these statistics decisively in favour of paid work and in general, as a rule, priority will always be given to paid work. We will only treat work free of charge on an optional basis in case we fail to find paid work. So when we have a choice to have the prisoner sit in a cell and do nothing, then we prefer that he works, even free of charge, but he worked, just for rehabilitation reasons. There was a question about the price in the canteen. I would like to inform you that they are being monitored on an ongoing basis. A special regulation was created by the Director-General of the Prison Service, which allows us to verify how prices are shaped in the canteens. As a rule, we assume that there must be market prices there, they cannot be higher. The question was whether the condemned in the halls would work for money or free of charge. No, in the halls, as a rule, there will be paid work. If we build halls, it's only for paid work. I don't think we're gonna be hiring people out there who... I mean. I don't think we're going to be signing contracts with companies that would declare employment free of charge. Only for a fee. There was also a question of maintenance priority. I would like to stress that this has already been included in the Enforcement Penal Code in Article. 122 § 2, which says that priority is always given to a prisoner with maintenance obligations, if we treat work as a deficit commodity in the penitentiary unit. Finally, I would like to thank the representatives of all the parliamentary clubs for their constructive discussion on this subject. I would also like to stress that we have been observing many solutions throughout the year, driving around the world and observing what it looks like in other countries, working for prisoners, how countries that are successful have achieved these successes. Many of the tools we've seen in the world have been included in this bill. However, I would like to stress that there is still one goal - to work as many prisoners as possible. Therefore, High Sejm, if there are any new proposals, some new tools that will allow us to expand the catalogue of those we have had until today, so that the prisoners have more work to do, we will also be open to it. Therefore, thank you very much once again for such a constructive discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u273	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many times it has already been suggested that the work of prisoners is not only a positive economic character, but above all a rehabilitation one. It is easier for employed penitentiaries to return to society after their sentences, as they continue to have the right habits associated with them, such as punctuality or systemicity, thanks to their work in the course of the penalty. This applies to any type of work, also provided free of charge. Not without significance for later life on freedom for prisoners is also the professional experience they gain while working during the execution of the sentence. In addition, thanks to their paid work, they earn to cover commitments such as maintenance or financial penalties imposed on them. The positive social impact accompanying the employment of inmates is also extremely important. Taking all these factors into account, it seems necessary to take appropriate steps to increase employment among the inmates. The amended amendment provides for the extension of the catalogue of work carried out by prisoners free of charge and for the increase of deductions from the remuneration available to prisoners for the support of the Convicted Professional Activation Fund and the Development of Incarceration Works. I think it is very important that the solutions contained in this amendment will contribute to the implementation of one of the pillars of the programme run by the Ministry of Justice since the beginning of 2016. This pillar is to build production halls in the areas of prisons, where external entrepreneurs will employ prisoners. I have no doubt that this is a solution that will significantly contribute to the achievement of the main objective of both this amendment and the "Work for Prisoners" programme. For the opponents of this project, the most important argument is that according to its regulations the remuneration of the convicted will be slightly reduced by more than half of its value. This is, however, part of the salary intended to increase the number of jobs and maintain the existing one. There is nothing wrong with the fact that prisoners will participate in the development and maintenance of jobs that will consequently serve them. I believe that these changes will not cool down the willingness of those incarcerated to take up employment and that such concerns are unfounded. As was said at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, this project is in line with the expectations of the convicted and, I am sure, fits in with the expectations of the rest of society. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the government bill amending the Penal Code Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u275	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws (prints Nos 1013 and 1082). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Paul to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u276	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I have the honour to submit to the High House a report on the teamwork of the two Commissions: Infrastructure and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy. They held a joint meeting on 30 November, working on a government draft law contained in Seym Printing 1013, which concerns amendments to the following laws: in the Law of 21 March 1985 on public roads, in the Law of 16 December 2005 on the financing of land transport infrastructure and in the Law of 27 August 2009 on public finances. The proposed rules aim to eliminate doubts about the possibility of financial cooperation between local government units and other entities, including. Treasury, in the field of financing road investments. Proposals for amendments to the Article 19 Public Roads Act is intended to clearly indicate that it is possible to terminate and conclude agreements between road managers in order to implement and finance investments which, for various reasons, are interested in local government units located in road lanes of categories other than their own. Thus, the proposed amendments to the Transport Infrastructure Financing Act clearly clarify the possibility for local governments to transfer funds to other road managers. These changes are in line with the demands of many local authorities, who want to spend money on road tasks managed by other institutions in the interests of the safety of their residents and their communication needs, e.g. by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. Designed provision in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 4th Public Road Act aims to eliminate the question of interpretation regarding the possibility of transferring road management between public road managers. According to such an agreement, both the tasks as a whole and the tasks individually can be transferred. Doubts about funding possibilities e.g. the construction of sidewalks in the national road lane by the municipalities notify regional clearing houses, assuming that the provisions of the Municipal Government Act of 8 March 1990 and the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009 do not provide for the possibility for municipalities to grant grants to governmental organisations and bodies. The current ambiguous rules limit the possibility for local authorities to transfer public funds to infrastructure investments located in the road lane of another road manager. Additional justification for explicit solutions is situations where local authorities are required to improve road safety e.g. in the municipality area and having public resources, they ask other public road managers to enable the implementation of e.g. walking-bike or additional road safety devices. Despite the appropriateness of implementing these projects, due to the imprecise rules in this area, they are not implemented due to interpretation doubts as to the legal basis for the financing by the municipality of elements of road infrastructure, district roads, voivodships or national roads. This leads to a situation in which the local government, with financial resources to carry out the task, cannot achieve it due to doubts about the existence of legal bases. In view of the doubts raised by the Regional Audit Chamber, it is therefore necessary to clarify the rules so as to give the local authorities a clear basis for the transfer of funds e.g. for the construction of pavements or bicycle paths on roads of a different category than those managed by them. The proposed rules therefore respond to the demands made by the local authorities regarding clear regulations indicating the possibility to implement investments that are relevant to the needs of local communities. At the same time, due to the doubts raised by local government units regarding the absence of appropriate amendments to the Public Finance Act, taking into account the purpose of the proposed regulation, the draft law provides in Article. 3 in the field of Article. 216 Public Finance Act adding paragraph. 3, which clearly indicates that expenditure on the budget of a local government unit may be used to carry out the tasks arising from the agreements referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Law of 21 March 1985 on public roads, i.e. agreements concluded between road managers. On the other hand, the amendment proposed in the Article. Point 1 (1) of the draft law concerns the introduction of a new provision under which the Minister responsible for Transport will be able to issue, disseminate or recommend standards and standards for the preparation of investments in public roads, construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance or protection of such roads. In the current Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Public Road Act defines the competence of the Minister responsible for transport as the body headed by the road administration responsible for the organisation, development and management of the public road network. According to Art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the Public Road Act belongs to the Minister responsible for transport, among others. issuing technical and operational regulations for road and road engineering facilities. However, the need to introduce the possibility for the Minister responsible for transport also to issue standards and standards relating to the preparation of investments in public roads, construction, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance or protection of these roads is reported. Thus, the Minister will be able to issue recommendations in the form of standards and standards relating to, for example, for the design, construction and maintenance of public roads or road engineering facilities. In this way, it is possible, for example. rapid implementation of new technologies that allow very often for cost-effective and environmentally-friendly road infrastructure design, in line with the latest technical knowledge and solutions used in road and bridge construction. These models or standards will not constitute universal law, but will be suggestions. Developed by the Minister responsible for transport standards or standards in the form of e.g. Codes of good practice can facilitate and help to harmonise the practice of road managers. It should also be borne in mind that the application of these models or standards will be a matter for the individual decision of the entity that will be interested in them. Mrs. Marshal! After the first reading and recognition of the project, which took place on 30 November, as I mentioned earlier, the project was adopted without amendments. Commissions: Local Government and Regional Policy and Infrastructure unanimously request the adoption of Print Act No 1013. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u277	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on print no. 1013, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Government draft law amending the Public Road Act. I would like to point out that these changes are very expected by the local government and the Ministry, and they have come to the heart of this project. Namely, the proposed regulations aim to eliminate doubts about the possibility of financial cooperation between local government units and among others. The Treasury, mainly the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, is concerned with the financing of road investments where local authorities are interested in co-financing the implementation of a given road investment. Proposals for amendments are particularly important here in Article. 19 Public Roads Act is intended to clearly indicate that it is possible to conclude agreements between road managers to carry out investments which, for various reasons, are interested in local authorities - whether for security reasons or because of the development needs of a given municipality, are very different reasons - located in road lanes of categories other than their own, and their financing. These changes meet the demands of many local authorities, who want to allocate funds to initiate tasks in the interests of the safety of residents and their communication needs, e.g. construction of pavements, bicycle paths, various types of facilities improving safety or communication, on roads managed by other managers, e.g. managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways or any other owner of these roads. These provisions aim to eliminate interpretation doubts about the possibility of transferring road management between public road managers. Thus, both the tasks as a whole and the tasks individually can be transferred through such an agreement. In addition, doubts about funding possibilities e.g. the construction of sidewalks in the national road lane by the municipalities reported very often regional clearing houses, assuming that the provisions of the Public Finance Act do not provide for the possibility for municipalities to grant grants to government authorities. Functioning RIO interpretations limit the possibility for local authorities to spend public funds on the construction of pavements, bicycle roads in the area of a local authority unit serving the local community, which are located in the road lane of another road manager. According to some RIOs the interpretation of the current rules governing the financing and management of public roads and the rules governing the financial management of local government units may not, although very often they are prepared financially, initiate or participate in construction, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance or protection of roads of a category other than those managed by them. There are often situations where the local government, with financial resources to carry out the task, cannot implement it due to the doubts about the existence of the legal bases that I mentioned earlier. It should be mentioned that the project as a government project has passed through all procedures and consultations and has received a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. Another important change in this amendment is the introduction of patterns and standards. The Minister will be able to issue recommendations in the form of standards and standards relating to e.g. for the design of roads, construction works and maintenance of public roads or road engineering facilities. This approach fully fits in with other European countries. Such a system enables both introduction and rapid change, e.g. detailed technological requirements in road construction, as well as other aspects related to the activities in this area, and thus ensure that they are up-to-date. In this way it is possible, among others. rapid implementation of new technologies that allow very often cost-effective and environmentally-friendly road infrastructure design in line with the latest technical knowledge and solutions used in road and bridge construction. Thus, the proposed solutions will make it possible for the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs to distribute. transport solutions that will enable e.g. access to technical or technological innovations. In view of the rank changes in the above amendment of the Public Roads Act as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, given that this is also the expectation of local governments, we ask the High House to accept these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u279	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u280	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Public Road Act and certain other laws. In view of the fact that the rules will eliminate interpretation doubts regarding the possibility of financial cooperation between local government units and inter alia. The State Treasury for the financing of road investments where a local government unit is interested in co-financing the implementation of a given road investment and the fact that it will indicate that agreements can be concluded between road managers for the purpose of carrying out investments which, for various reasons, are interested in local government units located in road lanes of categories other than their own and their financing, which also meet the demands of many local authorities which, in the interests of the safety of their residents and their communication needs, wish to allocate funds to initiate tasks, e.g. construction of pavements or bicycle paths by roads managed by other managers, e.g. national roads managed by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways, the introduction of clear solutions will help to take decisions where local authorities, with a view to improving road safety in the area, for example. municipalities, with public funds, request other public road managers to enable the implementation of a hiking cycle or additional road safety equipment in the road lanes of district roads, voivodships or national roads. The Platform Club is in favour of further proceding the draft law, because the detailed provisions will allow the implementation of legitimate projects, especially in situations where the lack of funds for these investments in the budget of the relevant road manager prevents them from being implemented due to interpretative doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u281	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u282	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Government's draft law amending the Public Roads Act and certain other laws contained in print 1013, following the presentation of the committee's report, contained in print No 1082. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law presented by the government provides for changes in a number of legal acts. In particular, they relate to the introduction of a mechanism enabling the local authorities concerned to transfer funds for the implementation of investments on national roads. In addition, the project introduces an authorisation for the Minister responsible for transport to issue, disseminate or recommend standards and standards for the preparation of investments in public roads, construction, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance or protection of such roads. As a matter of fact, I would like to believe - with the sincere intention of the applicants and the content of the justification for the proposal, the proposed rules will allow for the elimination of systematic interpretational doubts, including those notified by the RIO, in terms of agreements between local authorities and, for example, local authorities. The Treasury. These doubts concern a situation where a local government unit is interested in co-financing a road investment, e.g. by a national road managed by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. And just designed in the article. 19 Laws on public roads clearly prejudice on the admissibility of financial cooperation between local government units and precisely among others. State Treasury for the financing of road investments. To assess how important these tasks can be for the local community, you need to look at their examples. Namely, within the framework of such solutions, local authorities will be able to finance the construction of pavements, bicycle paths, etc. It is an infrastructure for which inhabitants often fight a specific and long-term struggle. Added to the article in paragraph. However, 4 does not lay down the rules under which these agreements are to be concluded and perhaps the proposed provision should be further detailed in the future, taking into account the analysis of the impact of the adoption of this project. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed draft also adds paragraph. Article 3 17 Public Roads Act. It shall include an authorisation for the Minister responsible for transport to issue, disseminate or recommend road patterns and standards. In principle it is a good direction, but again in the draft law or rather in the justification we will not find the information which the entity will develop these standards. Similarly, in the case of the Law on the financing of inland transport infrastructure and the added paragraph. Article 6 3 There was doubts as to whether the new regulations also included road engineering facilities. This requires a clear explanation. To the end, I would like to draw attention to the important and often questionable question. There is a concern that the rules adopted by the High House will become an excuse for the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to refrain from financing with their own investment resources, for example in improving the safety status of the public roads they manage and to shift these costs to local government units, which, of course, will have to bear additional, significant costs in the interest of their inhabitants. The law may also make the authorities responsible for carrying out national road tasks conditional on the possible implementation of the investment on the financial contribution of the local government unit in which it is located. This, in turn, would constitute a clear violation of the Constitution's provisions defining the jurisdictional and financial separation of local governments. Moreover, it is not difficult to imagine such a situation when the Directorate-General of the Directorate-General at a meeting with the residents announces that the pavement will not be open, because the President, Mayor or Mayor have not provided funding for this and the reaction of the local community to this presentation, especially before the elections. Therefore, I ask the Minister to make a clear declaration that the law will serve only local governments and their initiatives, not public authorities and institutions, to shift the costs of building road infrastructure to local governments. In view of my position, I would like to inform you that the Modern Posel Club is making its position dependent on this clear public declaration by the Minister on the doubts and concerns that I have just presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u283	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, it's true, as one of my previous speakers said, that presenting this government project by the Ministry, by the Minister, is a good solution at a good time when local authorities expect some regulation. After all, from practice we know that conversations, cooperation, joint resolution of security issues or construction of the transport infrastructure, which ensured the safe movement of inhabitants, especially in the built-up area of small towns or towns, have been the subject of action already in the past time, at least it was and is in the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. I believe that this is good practice, but it will be good that we will regulate this cooperation, we will sanction the legal possibility of financing and transferring local funding to tasks that fall within the scope of tasks to be carried out by the government administration, i.e. the general management. The Regional Audit Chamber will have fewer problems and will also have fewer problems with this self-government. It is also a good thing that the provisions of the bill are about the possibility for the Minister to submit or issue appropriate standards with standards for the implementation of these projects. It is important that what will be done to ensure that this effort of local government, these self-government expenditures are implemented in the right standard, in the right issue, are compatible, that is, convergent, appropriate to the technical level of the road itself, so that it creates a whole not only aesthetic but also technical, and is a testimony of well-invested local resources. I am convinced, Minister, as one who has grown out of the local government and who has operated at three levels in this local government, that these records are a record of voluntary partnership and problem solving in every locality, region or voivodship, depending on the financial capacity of the local government and on the needs. Here I want to refer to the speech and statements of my previous speaker. It would be inappropriate if, by introducing these provisions and these wordings, we opened the door to a mechanism for solving tasks and supplementing funds for complete implementation of investment tasks. I think we will also be able to answer these questions here and that we will be able to support here as a club when voting on the proposed solution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The draft law submitted is the result of the demands of local government units regarding the formulation of clear rules that would enable investment to be carried out concerning, among others, local authorities. improve the safety and functionality of public roads which are not on the management board of a given local government unit and which serve the needs of local communities. The main problem solved by the proposed law is the unambiguous definition of the possibility of agreements between road managers in order to implement investments which are interested in local government units located in road lanes other than their own. The project assumes that local authorities will be able to finance such investments without fear of a negative interpretation of expenditure by regional audit chambers. As a self-government officer with a long-term internship in municipal infrastructure of medium-sized cities, I know very well the problems to remove this bill. Simple investments consisting of construction of a bus bay, lighting of pedestrian crossings, construction or renovation of the pavement currently cannot be carried out by local government units on its own territory on roads which are on the management board of other entities. Often these are the main roads in a given village. This applies especially to small towns and villages, where there are no bypasses, and the passageways lead through their center. Indirect efforts to deliver investments for local communities are inefficient and go on for years. For example, in the case of roads managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, it is necessary to place investments in budget plans, to raise money for their implementation, to select a contractor. The municipalities often participate in the costs of such tasks, which requires the prior signing of an agreement with the road manager. All of this greatly prolongs the achievement of such tasks. Most often, it is not possible to carry out minor tasks within the financial and organisational scope of the local government unit at all if more investments are not planned in connection with the modernisation of the entire section of the road. In addition, with such a long and irregular investment cycle, it is not possible to coordinate them with local investments, which could help to better manage public funds. The way in which such investments are financed should also be considered. A good solution could be a mandatory transfer of money corresponding to even a part of the value of a task defined, e.g. percentage that would come from the road manager's budget, e.g. from the budget of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, to local self-government units. The idea is that road managers should not shift the financial burden of carrying out small but necessary tasks to local authorities, while at the same time getting rid of their statutory duties. The contested bill has another dimension, perhaps a bit humorous, but important from the point of view of the interests of local communities. In some cases local authorities have even avoided the most socially desirable investments, e.g. from better lighting transitions for pedestrians or construction of bike paths. After the entry into force of this law, they will no longer be able to say that it is impossible, because it is not our way. Of course there will be no coercion, it will depend on the operationality of a given uncle or mayor. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill is a good step towards simplifying procedures. It is a step towards a local and civil state. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u287	Thank you very much, sir. I have five Members to ask questions. Anybody else want to ask you a question? If not, I close the list of Members. Question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the changes proposed in these projects meet the demands of many local authorities who want to allocate funds to carry out tasks on the roads of other managers. These are tasks such as the construction of pavements, bridges or bike paths. Doubts about the possibility for municipalities to finance and co-finance such tasks have been raised not only by the local authorities concerned but also by regional clearing houses so far. Therefore, this solution should be considered to be the right one. However, I ask you to answer the following question. Currently, the draft budget law for 2017 included PLN 800 million in the "Programme for the development of municipal and district road infrastructure." Meanwhile, the promises were different. In April this year. The Ministry of Finance has declared an increase in funding for this programme [[♪ The bell ♪]] about PLN 200 million to PLN 1 billion. I would therefore like to ask why this very important local road development programme has been treated so much, why these funds are less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u289	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u290	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of Ministers! Is this amendment really a response to local authorities' willingness to participate in part of public road construction costs? Applicants are writing about the possibility resulting from this project to establish agreements between road managers to implement investments which are, for various reasons, interested in local government units. If so, I would like to remind you that in Gdansk and Central Pomerania, the units of self-governments - both tri-city and post-city - are very interested in building the national road S6 connecting both centres. Will the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, which is part of the entities under the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, start working on this route if the local authorities declare their willingness to participate partially in this construction, for example in lighting or pavements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u291	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u292	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, there's a state that's in order. It is not entirely true that there was no possibility, because a whole range of such investments in Małopolska were implemented, so perhaps somewhere else these doubts occur, so it is probably good that it will cross unambiguously. Although this issue has already been raised in the discussion, I would like to ask whether it is not really the case that after the adoption of this amendment it may turn out that the manager will say: now you have, local governments, the possibility of financing, do it yourself. In the meantime, Minister, there are resources in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways to improve road safety by building, whether it's pavements or crossing or cycling paths. Isn't that a tendency to shed this responsibility on local governments, freeing themselves from the tasks that have been carried out so far? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to the revision of the Public Road Act, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has considered clarifying and resolving any question of interpretation related to the occupation of the road lane. Many facilities, such as information and advertising boards, as well as, interestingly, recently balconies, do not hinder traffic management, road management, pedestrians on the sidewalks, and yet try to charge various tolls for them in individual cities with different interpretations. the occupation of the road lane. The greatest doubts exist as to the height of the road lane border, i.e. from and to what amount the toll can be charged. I therefore ask whether the Ministry plans to clarify the rules relating to the occupation of the road lane so that all cities, but also the courts, because different judgments, can interpret the rules equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u295	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Most people in today's discussion stressed the importance of changing these rules, because, finally, local government units, those which obviously want to invest in cycling paths or sidewalks, will not be forced to circumvent regulations or to abandon these projects if they have the will and financial means, especially with the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Change is very important. I have a question for the Minister. There were also charges here, remarks as to whether this would be a withdrawal, a push on the Ministry of Investment. The point is that the Minister should tell us what the programmes are, what the possibilities of this law are, is to combine local resources with the Ministry's resources. The fact that there are programs is more likely to stimulate these investments, rather than slow them down. A few words about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Jerzy Szmit to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very warmly both for the debate during the meetings of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government, as well as for the debate at this plenary session of the Sejm today. This proves, firstly, that the project which has been presented and prepared by the government enjoys the support, broad support of the House, although there are doubts which I am about to address and, secondly, that it is really affecting the important problems of road construction, which we are trying to solve in a way that is hopeful. I am convinced that not only does it raise hope, but it will also help to solve these problems. High Izbo, maybe a few words to add to the justification of the bill, but then I will refer to the questions that were raised during the debate. Maybe I can start with a clear, unambiguous assurance that, when it comes to co-financing road investments on the national roads referred to in this law, this will only be carried out on a voluntary basis with local authorities. I'm saying this clearly, without any reservations. There must be an agreement, there must be the will of both parties, that a given investment on a national road, which passes through a given municipality or district, because it cannot be excluded, or even the voivodship, can be co-financed. There is absolutely no will here, no hidden meanings or hidden intentions to be different. I'll talk about one thing, the most important thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a country where there is deep social control. And if such situations were to occur anywhere, that some general director would suggest, would demand, do not give God, from the local government, would condition the execution of a specific investment by co-financing, it would immediately be met with a very clear condemnation. I think that as a ministry, we would also react unambiguously. But also, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, we must respond to positive proposals, positive proposals from local governments, and these are. Maybe I'll start with a declaration from Szczecin's self-government, Mr President, who very much encourages us to adopt this law as soon as possible so that we can sit down and talk about co-financing the Western ring road Szczecin, which is a giant one, which I stress, which is important on the scale of the country's communication system of investment. There is a proposal from the government of Niepołomic. Here, in turn, it is about building a junction on the A4 motorway, which would be very useful when it comes to handling this important industrial centre in Podkraków. There is an investment requested by the municipality Siedlec k. Wolsztyna in Wielkopolska. It is a small investment, but it is a deep need, financial resources are provided. And that's the deep justification that we have for introducing this project. With regard to the second part of the Act, which refers to the possibility for the Minister responsible for transport to issue, distribute or recommend designs and standards for the preparation of investments in public roads, construction, reconstruction, renovation, maintenance or protection of these roads, High Izbo, we have the situation that road construction today uses general rules that apply to the whole construction, while there are no specific provisions that concern road construction. This is particularly seen in building equipment to protect animals. We have discussed many times in this House about the costs that involve the protection of animals in road construction. What else is protection against noise, this is mostly about people and animals, but the transitions for animals, big, small, up, down, it's all money, they're all engineering devices that consume really, really significant financial resources, very significant money. Today, there are really no clear rules on how, even at what distance, a passage should be placed for large animals, at which distance one passage from another should be. It's actually the will of designers, it's their will, their experience. It has to be regulated, it has to be said when it should be a mountain crossing, when it should be a bottom crossing, because these are all decisions that are followed by very serious financial expenditures. And this is one of those ranges that should be regulated in this way with this possibility. On the other hand, I would also like to say that for a few months now, at the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, there has been a decision by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, an expert council which prepares basic legal acts that will regulate relations between the investor - in this case the general management, but also local authorities, because there are also representatives of local authorities - and contractors in the Council. It's about what we've had until recently, so all these disputes, 10 billion in disputes between the general management and the contractors in the courts, these endless trials, as well as bankruptcy situations. We want you to not react to these situations ex post, which is after the fact, once there is a conflict, only ex ante, so earlier, ahead of them. Those patterns of contracts that I hope will soon... One of them, the main one, the most important one, is already very close to agreement. They will serve as a model for building relations between the contracting authority and the contractors on this giant road construction market. We also want to develop a number of such models of contracts, and then the basis for implementing them is to be, among others. That part of the bill I'm talking about here. Maybe I'll pass now, High Izbo, to answer the questions already. The first question concerned funds for the modernisation programme for municipal and district roads. Next year it will be at the level of this year, i.e. 800 million PLN. Indeed, we would like this amount - because this is what we planned - to be increased by PLN 200 million, and that was the first intention. Unfortunately, in the course of government work, sometimes some amounts are reduced. I think that since 2018 we will either come up with a completely different model of financing, supporting municipal and district roads, which I hope will be much more effective and at a higher level, or we will try to ensure that at least this previously declared level of PLN billion is maintained. At the same time, I would like to say that a billion PLN is also increasing, which will be at the disposal of the general management, for the maintenance and modernisation of roads. I think it's here too, among other things. Using this mechanism referred to in the first part of the law, i.e. the possibility of co-financing, we will be able to use these possibilities, or at least support those places where national roads come into contact with local roads. Question about S6. Could local authorities' decisions on co-financing influence decisions on the construction of the S6 expressway? Ladies and gentlemen, the cost of building this road from Koszalin to the planned three-city metropolitan ring road is PLN 5.7 billion, while the cost of the Tricity ring road is estimated at nearly PLN 2 billion. Of course, if... Let me say this so that it can reverse the situation a little bit: just as there will be no situation, that the general management will force the local government to co-finance, so it is difficult to imagine a second situation - that the local government will say: well, I will pay, I am willing to give a million to build the road, and you will give 5 billion. We also need to keep some sense in all of this and remember that we are talking about really gigantic amounts and serious problems that we want to solve fairly. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to problems concerning the occupation of the roadway, we do not receive such signals. If there are such problems in calculating the costs involved, please contact the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and we will address this problem. But we don't see any systemic problems today. On the question of what are the funds and programmes to improve road safety, I will answer that it has been in operation for 2 years - now it is the second year of its operation, sorry, the first year of its operation - the programme for the elimination of dangerous places. It is planned annually for PLN 300 million. We wanted to implement this programme, unfortunately it could not be implemented in such a way, because it simply turned out that despite the resources provided, there were not enough projects prepared, but they will only be created now. I think that this money will not go away - it is in the National Road Fund, and so in the multi-annual programme - and next year we will be able to make even more of these investments than this year in relation to the "Program for the Elimination of Dangerous Places." It is about situations where national roads pass through smaller towns. This is where you need bike paths, you need stops, bus bays, you need to rebuild intersections or build right- or left-hand turns, that is, these small investments. On the other hand, the overall directorate has a programme to liquidate places with the risk of fatal accidents and this programme is also being implemented. I think, hopefully next year it will be as effective as this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u299	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. We as supporters of greater competence in the hands of citizens are pleased to meet the demands of many local governments, who wish to allocate funds to initiate tasks in the interests of the safety of their inhabitants and their communication needs (e.g. construction of pavements, bicycle paths, etc.) on roads managed by other managers, e.g. national roads managed by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. We have seen in the past that local authorities have co-financed construction or expansion of roads, but too long have been waiting for the decisions of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in these matters. Another obstacle so far was that such actions met with a negative assessment of the regional financial chambers which questioned these expenditures, claiming that the local authorities did not invest in their assets. When I met with local government officials, this problem was often pointed out. The second amendment introduced by the law is the standardisation and development of road construction standards. We all know how many irregularities occurred during the construction of certain roads and highways. This resulted in an increase in costs. Standardisation and the creation of standards is one of the methods leading to the reduction of construction costs. We look forward to the results of the Expert Council's work. optimization of road investments. The expert board consists of 28 representatives of public road managers, the road industry and the social side. And this is what I appreciate most - working with specialists, with industry, that is, with people who do it every day and who ate their teeth on road construction and highways. The task of the board is to use knowledge and many years of experience in the road industry to develop several patterns that regulate the investment process in Poland. Certainly the introduction of all cooperation and partnership mechanisms, including between local government and government administration, is a very good solution. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the Act: "This system allows for both introduction and rapid change, e.g. detailed technological requirements in road construction, as well as other aspects related to the activities in this area, and thus ensure that they are up-to-date. In this way, it is possible, for example. rapid deployment of new technologies, allowing very often cost-effective and environmentally-friendly road infrastructure design in line with the latest technical knowledge and solutions used in road and bridge construction. Kukiz'15 agrees with these comments, it is the industry that should decide on the standards for building roads and motorways, and these standards should be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u301	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Accounting Act (prints 1045 and 1086). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 18 November 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm sent a governmental bill amending the Accounting Act, print No. 1045, to the Public Finance Commission for first reading. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance on 30 November, this draft law was examined. The purpose of the revision of the Accounting Act of 29 September 1994 is to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014. As the deadline for the implementation of the Directive with regard to disclosure of non-financial information and information relating to diversity policy by certain large entities and groups was 6 December 2016, the Public Finance Commission immediately proceeded to proceed with the procedure of that law. The request to postpone the discussion of this project was not supported by a majority of the members of the Public Finance Commission. Following a detailed analysis of 17 amendments to the Accounting Act, a number of legislative amendments were introduced during the discussion, clarifying certain provisions. Following the first reading of this draft law, the Public Finance Commission proposes that the Sejm adopt a draft Accounting Act annexed to the print report no. 1086. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u303	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Lech Sprawka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending the Accounting Act from print no. 1045. As the rapporteur has just mentioned, the draft law implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014, which amended Council Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large entities and groups. It is worth recalling that this Directive introduces two major changes which, firstly, extend the scope of non-financial information and, secondly, introduce new disclosures in the field of diversity policy. As regards the first amendment, which is implemented precisely by the Government's draft law, it is primarily the introduction of a requirement to disclose in the activity report the form of a declaration on non-financial information the minimum relevant information on at least social, labour, environmental, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery, so-called. reporting on corporate social responsibility, CSR reports. On the other hand, as regards the second amendment, new disclosures on diversity policy will be consumed by amending the Finance Minister's regulation on current and periodic information published by issuers of securities and the conditions for recognising as equivalent information required by the laws of a non-member state. As I mentioned, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the government draft law amending the Accounting Act, does not make any amendments at second reading and asks for the rapid completion of the work on this print project no. 1045. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Szydłowska and Mr Paweł Kobyliński made club statements in writing. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the committee's report on the government project, prints 1045 and 1086, as the rapporteur presented, the first reading took place at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. The purpose of the amendment to the Accounting Act is to implement Directive 2014/95/EU of 22 October 2014 as regards the disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large entities. The deadline for implementing the Directive into Polish law was 6 December. As regards the changes introduced by the Directive, they, firstly, broaden the scope of information for these non-financial ones and, secondly, introduce new disclosures in the field of diversity policy. As far as the first is concerned, disclosure is required in the activity report in the form of a statement of non-financial information - a minimum of relevant information on at least social, labour, environmental, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery, i.e. the so-called. reporting on corporate responsibility as CSR reports. These disclosures must take the form of a description of the policy pursued in the field concerned, its results, a description of risks, a way of managing risks in non-financial matters. They are covered by these regulations by large individuals of interest so-called. public, i.e. those whose average annual employment is above 500 people and the balance sheet assets amount to more than 20 million or net revenue from sales of goods and products is above 40 million. The approach to implementing the Directive on disclosure of non-financial information will be based on the current state of reporting of non-financial information by Polish entities. Reporting on non-financial information will be completely voluntary and will be based on individual decisions of individual entities. The designers, the government, ensure that no additional requirements are introduced in the draft law beyond what is required by the Directive. The catalogue of units for the accounting law concerned has also been specified. They're listed in detail. There's a lot of them. The bill introduces extensive reporting requirements, as I said, for the largest large units. The project takes a flexible approach. Companies that are currently preparing e.g. CSR reports will be able to continue this form of reporting. In addition to the changes related to the implementation of the Directive, it is proposed to introduce a change which allows the transfer of certain accounting evidence from paper to IT. A new model is being introduced for this report, including for institutions, public benefit and voluntary activities. I would also like to say that the project has been subject to numerous consultations with the institutions concerned. Some of these comments have been taken into account. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill fulfils the obligation to implement EU law, and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u307	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel. There is no Member. In this regard, I would ask you to take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you kindly for working on the bill. The first reading took place in the Committee on Public Finance, but the rapporteur and the Member State who acted on behalf of the clubs submitted the content of the document carefully and talked about the work of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much for the fact that the work has been carried out in a consistent and unanimous atmosphere. It is quite rare, but all the more so during the pre-Christmas period. The tradition is that the Accounting Act and its amendments rather enjoy a great consensus. It's a good thing this tradition has been maintained. Let me just briefly, literally in a few sentences, mention, in addition to the changes resulting from the EU directive, which have been discussed very precisely here, the extra-directive changes, i.e. introducing simplifications, which reduce the administrative burden on individuals in line with the request of 100 changes for companies and the business constitutions, the plan of Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the Minister for Development and Finance. This document has been equipped with regulations that are expected by market operators. Firstly, it allows individuals to transfer accounting evidence before approving financial statements to IT data carriers, introduces a simplified, separate scope of information financial statements for certain non-governmental organisations carrying out public benefit activities. The design rules also allow more units to apply simplified rules for calculating the cost of production of the product. The Act will apply for the first time to the reports drawn up for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2017. Thank you again for working on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. And please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Andrzej Noblehta.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As a rapporteur, I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Public Finance for their substantive discussion and for their smooth examination of this bill on accounting. In this way, we were able to adapt the rules of Polish law in such a short time to the rules of the European Union and the Council. I also wanted to thank all the clubs for supporting this project. This is an example of this model work on government bill designs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u311	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the amendment is to implement Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large entities and groups. Urz. EU L 330, 15.11.2014 p. One, late. zm.), referred to as Directive 2014/95/EU. The deadline for implementing its provisions in the Polish legal order expires on 6 December 2016. The European Union authorities have adopted Directive 2014/95/EU. Directive 2014/95/EU introduces changes resulting in: extending the scope of non-financial information and introducing new disclosures in the field of diversity policy. The Act concerns the following companies: average annual employment of more than 500 people and total balance sheet assets of more than EUR 20 million or net revenue from sales of goods and products of more than EUR 40 million. The Modern Club supports the implemented solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the government bill amending the Accounting Act, print no. 1045. The purpose of the amendment to the Accounting Act of 29 September 1994 is to implement Directive 2014/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 amending Directive 2013/34/EU as regards disclosure of non-financial information and information on diversity by certain large entities and groups, called Directive 2014/95/EU. The idea of the law is to increase the transparency of social and environmental information in the area of corporate social responsibility and to improve their coherence and comparability. The changes introduced include: extending the scope of non-financial information, as well as introducing new disclosures in the field of diversity policy, which will have a significant impact on the transparency of business. The bill submitted is in line with European Union law. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of transferring the project to further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u314	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 05 hrs. 17 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaiming of Independence of the Republic of Poland (print No. 1093). I ask Małgorzata Sadurska, Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u315	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I took part in the honour of presenting to the High House a draft law on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland, contained in the sejm print No. 1093. This is the President's legislative initiative. In less than 2 years, in 2018, we will celebrate events related to the century of regaining independence by Poland. After 123 years of captivity imposed by the invaders, our country regained its desired freedom. The basis for bringing the bill to the Sejm exactly on the eve of the recently celebrated holiday of independence was the conviction of the President that the 100th anniversary of regaining independence in 2018 is of particular importance for the Polish state and the Polish nation and requires special honor. The building of regaining independence is also a great opportunity to take action to strengthen the national identity and the sense of the civic community of Poles. The President's proposal aims to prepare the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland, which would take place in the years 2017 to 2021. Such a way of carrying out ceremonial celebrations would mark in the memory of Poles events and people connected with the rebirth of the Polish state. It is no less important that the President, when bringing the bill to the Sejm, expressed his conviction which I hope will be shared by all Members that there is a need to prepare the celebration in such a way that Poles can celebrate this special time together, beyond divisions, that the century of regaining independence will unite us in the sense of community and become a joyful feast of Poles and their homeland, the independent Republic of Poland. In order to realize the idea of a joint celebration, the President's proposal is to present the preparation and conduct of national celebrations in the hands of a committee composed, first, of the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, including the President of the Republic of Poland, the Marshal of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Senate, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Government's representative for the celebrations of the century of regaining independence, and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the prosecution of Crime against the Polish National. But not only should the state authorities take part in the preparation of the event. Participation in the public life of political parties and groups is no less important. The draft law discussed today assumes, of course, after agreement, participation in the committee of representatives of both political parties or groups which form parliamentary clubs in the Sejm, as well as those which are not represented in the current term of office in the Sejm, but who, in connection with the elections to the Sejm held on 25 October 2015, are entitled to a subsidy from the state budget. The political parties which have been granted the right to grant, in the form of an electoral coalition, will be given the opportunity to designate together one representative as a member of the committee. The third group of actors, whose participation will contribute to the proper organisation and conduct of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Recoveries, forms a social side. As proposed by the President, there will be representatives of churches and other religious unions, trade unions, combatants' organisations and other social organizations, or people particularly worthy of the Polish State. High Izbo! It cannot be overlooked that the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of Independence Recovery will be a major organizational and programme undertaking. The National Independence Day is celebrated on 11 November to commemorate the return from Magdeburg to Warsaw by Józef Piłsudski in 1918. However, the process of regaining and subsequently consolidating independence was extremely complex and extended over time. Therefore, in the opinion of the President, one of the main tasks of the Committee should be to prepare a plan for the national celebrations of regaining independence each year, in the years 2017/12021. Thus, the choice of specific events and persons to be honoured in the framework of national celebrations in each year will be made by means of an autonomous decision of the Committee. In view of the organisational issues, it should be stressed here that the proposed solutions also involve the Government's representative committee on the celebration of the century of independence, acting as the Secretary of the Committee. The representative's participation will serve to ensure efficient and proper cooperation and coordination between the government centre and other actors involved in the implementation of national celebrations. It is worth noting that the proposed solution takes into account in the Committee's tasks the initiation of cooperation between state authorities, local government, social organisations and all other stakeholders interested in participation in the National Celebrations of the 100th Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. Thus, the bill presented to the High House seeks to respect and take into account the bottom-up initiatives of celebrating the century of regaining independence of citizens, local governments and other non-governmental organisations aimed at commemorating regional and local events and heroes from the period of regaining independence. It should also be pointed out that the draft contains detailed procedural rules on how to convene and organise meetings of the Committee, the conditions for participating in its work and the preservation of meetings in the form of minutes. I would like to point out here that, in accordance with the proposed provisions, the Committee's decisions will take the form of resolutions, in an open vote, by a simple majority in the presence of at least half of the members of the Committee. High Izbo! I would like to ask representatives of all parliamentary clubs to give a positive assessment of the project submitted, to direct it to further work and to adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u316	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Such a celebration, which will be the year-round anniversary of regaining independence in 2018, must be and will be a national holiday. This initiative of the President's Chancellery, as valid as possible, will undoubtedly be all the more important and valuable, the more representative it will be to society as well as to the representation of political parties, the representation of different viewpoints in the worldview sense, but always cooperation for free, democratic Poland, because such cooperation we would like to see and certainly realize together during the celebrations of this anniversary. The work will probably continue in committee, but already today I wanted to signal from the point of view of the Civic Platform club the need to supplement this advice also about the living, functioning and, after all, in the achievements of building a new democratic state with an important role, the Polish presidents. I think it would be valuable if they were cooped up in addition to the political party, and the President's Chancellery wouldn't question them. Bearing in mind that it is not only the anniversary of November 11 but also the whole series of events, the building of historical education, identity related to obtaining after 123 years of suffering, the dramas of independence in full measure, it should be our common task: Chambers, people operating publicly, many communities with authority and support, to do so in such a consistent and common way dignifiedly, to refresh the hearts of all for whom the free, independent and democratic Republic is the highest, the most important good. I hope that this initiative, through its work in committee, will also be able to carry out dignifiedly, jointly, precisely so that these celebrations are of such a nature and so remain realized - jointly and dignifiedly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u318	Thank you. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u319	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I would like to present our position on the draft law on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. First of all, as a Kukiz club15, we are aware of the fact that we must appreciate with the utmost care this great anniversary which is ahead of us, i.e. the 100th anniversary of Polish independence, because it is the acquisition of all generations of Poles who fought for Poland's independence, as well as later for regaining Poland's independence - in the 1940s, 50s, 60s and 70s, during communism, regardless of political divisions, regardless of the worldview, regardless of which armed formations or political formations Poles who fought for the sovereignty of our country represented. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have some comments on this project. First of all, the name of the Polish Marshal Józef Piłsudski appears several times in the very justification of the bill, but I personally lack representatives, fathers of other movements, who also fought for Polish independence: the folk movement, i.e. Mr.Vincent Witos, as well as the founder of the endition, National Democracy, Roman Dmowski. Already here, in the explanatory memorandum, we do not want to share the heirs of all these movements, which together, uniting forces, fought for Poland's regaining independence, as well as greatly contributed to the fact that our sovereignty was later maintained and that our young generations were instilled in this great value, which is patriotism. Furthermore, Minister, High Izbo, we also have our own comments in the context of the establishment of this committee, which is to manage the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining Poland's independence. We fear that this committee will be overly politicized. That is to say, we see here definitely a deficit in the participation of social organizations, bottom-up initiatives, veterans initiatives, because the bill clearly states that the invitation of possible representatives of social organisations belongs to the President of the Republic of Poland. That is why we have, of course, concerns about which organizations will be invited. In our opinion, in the opinion of the Kukiz Club15, we must do everything to ensure that this day on 11 November 2018 is finally a day of unity of all Poles over divisions. So we cannot lead to a situation in which this Polish-Polish war, which is currently - let's not hide - is going on every day on the streets, also this day will take place, because it will be a day that will be remembered for the next generations, will be written in the textbooks of our nation's history, and we must do everything to stand at the level of the task as a parliament, this also applies to your president, and all divisions on that day simply to be buried. Therefore, Minister, High Izbo, we have such comments not to obscure these celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, which, of course, we think are needed, a lot of citizens' initiatives, which, as we know, will also be undertaken. We know very well about reconstructive groups, we know about the multitude of conferences that will be held throughout Poland. We also mean the Independence March. I also spoke to the President of the Independence March Association, Mr Robert Bąkiewicz. And regardless of who in this Chamber has an opinion on the various initiatives I mention, it is important to remember that all these initiatives have led to Poles wanting to celebrate Polish independence from the bottom up for several years, alone, without driving party coaches. We must do everything to keep it that way and that on that day all these civil forces are united and not overlooked, so that this Polish-Polish war will not be heated further. Therefore, our concerns are also raised by the provision of an article. 4, which makes it clear that the Committee includes the President, the Marshals of both Chambers, very many ministers, representatives of political parties who have their representatives in the current Parliament, as well as those parties that have exceeded 3% in the elections. This, in our opinion, is a little disturbing record. We wouldn't want Kukiz15 to want only the election result of the last ballots at the urns to decide who will organize such an important event for the Polish state. Here we must also see the contribution that social organisations have made so far, which do not run for elections, are not political organisations and should definitely be invited. Therefore, as a Kukiz club15, we will be looking at further work on this law in committee. We will make our own comments, as well as appeal to the President, the President's office to ensure that all the environments in Poland - social and political, above divisions, from the left to the right - have one purpose that is to celebrate the independence of the Republic of Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And don't let anybody bother them or share them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u320	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u321	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In 2018 will be the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. After 123 years of partitions, slavery marked with blood, suffering, fighting and the efforts of many generations of Poles and Poles, our country regained sovereignty. This is undoubtedly our most important holiday. During its annual celebrations we honor the memory of those to whom we owe our country, who managed to lift the country from the huge destructions of World War I, create the conditions for economic development, economic modernisation and civilization. The year 2018 marks a special anniversary, because it is already 100. For this reason, in order to pay tribute to the heroes fighting for the freedom of our homeland and commemorating all the events that set out the Polish way to independence, President Andrzej Duda proposes to adopt a special act on the creation of the Committee of the National Cows of the 100th Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. This body is to be composed of the most important authorities, representatives of all major political parties, groups and social organisations. The goal is to celebrate this special celebration - all of us - as we are sitting here. Mr. President! We welcome your gesture to include representatives of opposition parties in the preparation of the event. On this occasion, however, it is impossible not to reflect on your attitude so far. I think we all remember in your opening speech how you talked about building unity, filling divisions, searching for a community. However, your testimony has been far from this declaration for more than a year. All your actions are done under the dictation of the PiS. As a lawyer, without any reflection, you sign quickly, often at night, a law governing the majority, disregarding the public consultation, vacathio legis, completely disregarding the good application of the law. Where were you, Mr. President, when thousands of women in the rain, in the wind and cold, had to defend the abortion compromise? Where were you when the D.A.'s independence was abolished? What actions did you take when the most important state positions in the Treasury companies were filled with people without the required powers or when the statutes of these entities were amended for the purpose of legitimizing such nominations? Finally, what do you do, Mr. President, when threats are directed towards local government? There was no position for you during the attacks on judicial independence, announced in the removal of insubordinate judges or the manual control of the prosecutor's office. As President of the Republic of Poland, you should uphold the Constitution, but you lacked a defensive response in blocking the work of the Constitutional Tribunal and did not take the oath of legally elected judges. It may therefore be asked whether, in view of all of this, there is a chance for the purpose of the bill to succeed. Is that even possible? For it is not enough to think of national unity from a great bell. Is there finally a need for a law and such a formal body to achieve its purpose? Modern as a modernist party is in favour of celebrating this holiday together. We are in favour of building, not sharing. We are in favour of these joint celebrations building our image also beyond the borders of our country. That is why we will be involved in the work on preparing the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence and we call on the President to be the President of all Poles on a daily basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u322	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm joining my colleague's appeal. Indeed, it is not enough to write laws, celebrate and celebrate together. We would appeal, Minister, for cooperation, but beyond divisions, and we very much want these work that will take place to be far from politics. Therefore, we call for the academics to work on this special celebration for all of us. To have as few politicians as possible on the committee you wish to appoint. Because if this committee is political, then the work will also be political and this celebration in 2018 will not be the celebration that we all want to celebrate together. So we have this call to move more towards the social, academic environments and to give up the environment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] stricte political. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u324	Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the presidential draft law on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. This time, at the very beginning, I would like to inform you that we will support this law. We will support it because - despite all the different motives - it is a very good direction, because on 11 November for each Pole is an extremely important date. After 123 years of partitions in 1918 the Polish state was reborn. This day reminds us of the most difficult periods of Polish history and the struggle our ancestors fought for free and independent Poland. It reminds us how important freedom and democracy are and how easily they can be lost. Independence Day for many years for all Poles is an important and important holiday. It was on that day that the city of Warsaw and other Polish cities passed peacefully, full of colors, joys and hopes of people who wanted to preach to everyone: We are free, we are proud of our independence, we are proud of Poland that we are creating. Unfortunately, in the past, 11 November was not conducive to joint celebration, unification, joint change. Why was that? Unfortunately, the politicians of the PiS who did not recognize the then president, who were too proud to celebrate together, are to blame. I'm totally in favour of celebrating Independence Day like every year. I am in favour of preaching in the world the idea of our freedom, I am in favour of reminding and appreciating those who fought for it. I am reading this project as a continuation of the work of President Bronisław Komorowski, who sought to organize the Independence Day together, to join this beautiful tradition of common march. The transmission was very simple. Unfortunately for the PiS it was not possible to go out and celebrate together. You couldn't go to Warsaw, you couldn't go to the townspeople. Don't be afraid, smile at us and we'll go celebrate this important one every day. Independence Day as well as other important celebrations and moments that build our identity build our historical memory. These are important moments in which - not since 2018, but always - we should be able to rise above divisions, to put aside our political intentions, often different visions and plans, to be able to celebrate this great national victory together, like Poland long and wide. Independence is not given once and for all. It wasn't given to us. We had to achieve independence ourselves with our heroes, who often sacrificed what was most precious in their lives - their lives. I am pleased that, although we do not see and cannot see in various actions the desire to lead Poland together to an ever greater and more beautiful growth, although in this law... we can at least try to set out this law for ourselves not only this purpose, but also strategies for achieving this goal. I am pleased that perhaps, after years of separate anniversaries, breaking into smaller, in different groups, there is a moment in which, regardless of political color and history, we can stand on this important day, shake hands and celebrate this great national success together. But I want you to know and be aware that I am counting on this bill to be not just an empty gesture, that it is not a prelude to an attempt to own only by the camp governing this common national holiday. I want to believe that this is not an intricately woven strategy for preparing for an election campaign that will start in 2019. I believe it will be a celebration of all Poles. I am very pleased that the Law and Justice intend to continue the solution that President Bronisław Komorowski initiated, inviting all Poles, those on the left and those on the right political side, to go over the divisions together in a common march. The leaders of the Polish People's Party since Vincent Witos have always indicated that we will be as strong outside as we can cooperate inside. We can differ, we can convince each other, but we can't shake hands when our national issues are resolved. That is why I believe that the draft law is part of the approach that we have always had in mind: cooperation for our wonderful homeland. However, I also see many threats that I hope we will be able to overcome together. Joint celebrations are not celebrations in which only one group can broadcast the tone and narration. If we really want full cooperation, and I see it in this proposed law, then I think we should show this willingness and willingness to cooperate on all levels. Let's start listening to each other, start talking to each other, and try to understand each other's reasons. Everyone works in the best faith, for the sake of our Poland. However, we must remember that our common Poland consists of many millions of Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us not impose the same thinking on everyone, let us not divide people into those who are with you, and on the rest who can be insulted, humiliated, or disfigured by such or other epithets. I hope that the invitation to jointly organise the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence will be a great national celebration, which will be jointly celebrated in 2018 and that it will not only be the legitimacy of one historical evaluation of one party. I'm hoping there won't be any shoving about trying to turn on the Smolensk appeal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u326	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u327	...indulgences or imposing only one form...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u328	Thank you very much, Member. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u329	...and that all of us, Poles, will be able to celebrate this special holiday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u330	Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry, but such demonstrations and demonstrations of naivety, as they present here, certainly Members of Parliament, have not seen in a long time. I am very sorry, sir, but it is doubtful that the President's moral right to report such drafts of laws is in question. It is doubtful that there is a moral human right that has signed laws eliminating democracy in Poland. I will not mention all these laws, but these are actions that are so embarrassing that we should not take into account this kind of propaganda, empty gesture from a man who is responsible for the authoritarian system in Poland, that many areas are out of the way of democracy, that there is a debate on Poland in the European Parliament at that time. Rather, Mr Duda has entered into a canon of such characters as - I will mention only a few famous symbolic ones - Czesław Wycech, Dyzma Gałaj, Oszdka-Morawski, Henryk Jabłoński. These were the people who signed on behalf of their powerholders fatal laws for Poland. And at the request of his boss Metternich of Żoliborz, Mr Duda signs this kind of bill. Practically the whole project is the calling of one body, PiS-owski, in fact, in the vast majority, in 90% or how to count, because it is difficult to say about some people, but all of them are called by Mr Duda. By the way, we will have an exhibition of PiS heroes such as Macierewicz or Misiewicz or Pisiewicz, and this reminds us of the worst practices from the times of the Polish People's Republic. This is a classic example of the creation of a propaganda party body, to which several nominees are chosen, and it creates an impression of some national unity, because it will be necessary for PiS to elect. Don't fall for it, gentlemen. The Union of European Democrats is in favour of rejecting this fetus at first reading, immediately, immediately, without taking it into account. This committee, which is called up, comes with a key, for decorations, representatives of certain parties, and has even been taken into account so that the members of the circle do not enter. It was carefully chosen - we congratulate you very much and thank you - so that Members of the European Union of Democrats do not accidentally enter. There are various breaks: parties that have exceeded 3%, 6%, subsidies, coalition, but are not talking about wheels. But we don't want to go in there so you didn't have to do anything. We thank you, we don't want to be there. I read in the justification of the project with astonishment about the identity of the Third Republic - about the identity of the Third Republic - where there are such words: "It is for us a will and a message, which we are obliged to be faithful, cultural identity, etc., material independence, the prosperity of the Third Republic is the primary goal of Poles regardless of differences of belief. Since when did that happen? Yesterday, your president screamed: You have no right to the Polish flag, you have no right, you are not Poles. Ubecy, traitors, Moscow cones. Yesterday, your CEO was saying it. And today you bring - you have the courage, you have the audacity to bring - something about the identity of the Third Republic? After all, this is Poland, which is not Poland. After all, it was President Duda who was polite to speak about the period after 1989: theoretical freedom. Poland was a theoretically free country, but really free is only when PiS rules. And you have the courage to bring something like this to the Sejm because you think we have a short memory? We've got it. Do you remember everything? We have all your names, markets and so on. Do you want me to remind you right now? We're not doing this. I will also take care of the small remarks that testify to historical non-science and certain sloppyness that this project is characterized by. Namely, what does it mean: "The National Committee is established...? Who's calling? Well, Mr. President, I understand, right? Don't you dare say that? He's calling himself? [[The bill.]] A committee of national celebrations shall be set up. The history of this project is terrible. You name 1772 and say, "As a result of the actions of the conquerors in the years... It was the first partition of Poland, it was a bar confederation. It resulted in the demolition of Poland. You are ignoring other uprisings, the Kościuszko Uprising. I don't care if you're uneducated from history, but why are you talking about the fact that Piłsudski took over from the Regency Board on November 10th, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That November 11th took over the army? He took over on November 10th. These are little things, of course. On 11 November, at the hands of the Regency Council, he took over the state and took over the army on 10 November. These are all very small things, of course. The essence of this project is only a deceiving propaganda procedure on the part of the PiS and an attempt to create a national unity steward, a character that you are not, was not and, I would like to be wrong, but I think you will never be. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are in favour of rejecting this project at first reading. I request that the project be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u332	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor. [[Oh, my God.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the proposal presented by the President of the Republic of Poland for the Act on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Recovering of Independence of the Republic of Poland. As we can read in the explanatory memorandum, the bill assumes the creation of the National Committee of the Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland, composed of the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, representatives of political parties and groups and social organizations. The establishment of the committee aims to guarantee the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence of the highest possible rank in order to commemorate this extremely important anniversary of events from 1918, as well as events from subsequent years, during which independence was recorded throughout the entire area of the Polish Republic, such as the Polish-Bolshevik War, the Wielkopolska Uprising or the three Silesian Uprisings. The importance of organising the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by the Republic, in which representatives of all political groups, social organisations and state and local authorities would take part over political divisions, is borne out by the conclusions of the study of the National Centre for Culture conducted by TNS Polska, which was included in the presentation of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage presented by Minister Jarosław Sellin at the meeting of the Parliamentary Group for Dignity, Community and Inclusion in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of Polish Independence Recovery which took place on 1 December 2016. As a participant in this meeting, I would like to express my appreciation for the authors of this programme, judging it as an impressive and inspiring sense of national pride. By the way, Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle have joined the envoy. the team, declaring their personal participation in the preparation of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. The most important conclusion in our assessment, mentioned in the presentation rather by accident as the first, is: In Poland there is a feeling of a strong community. Poles still feel that they share more than they do. It is precisely the efforts to strengthen the sense of the civic community that should be a priority for the activities of public authorities, including our parliamentary work. In this context, I did not want to talk about it, but with disappointment I must refer to the previous speech, my previous speaker. I think that this is a completely different intention for you, the President of the Republic, Mr Andrzej Duda, who is presenting this bill in the High Chamber and encourages the building of the national community, to break the barriers, to break prejudices, to break the things that divide us, and to build, to organize the celebration of this joyful 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence in the sense of the community, just as they rose to the heights of the national unity of the independent fathers who won it: Józef Piłsudski, Roman Dmowski, Vincenty Witos or Ignacy Daszyński, Ignacy Paderewski, other great figures who could shake hands after 123 years, when it was not on the map of the world, could regain independence so that we could as future generations be proud of our homeland. Unfortunately, this voice of the Member, my previous speaker, is disappointing and sad. I would ask for the reflection of all those who seem to want to celebrate together, but they draw arguments that tend to aggravate a political dispute rather than create a sense of national unity. It shouldn't be a party celebration, it shouldn't be an ideological celebration. The only idea that we should have in common during the celebration of this holiday is the independent Republic. And we should all put aside prejudice, anse, some offensive issues that have touched someone there. The President is really coming up with a great, good initiative and it needs to be respected. Absolutely everyone, 100% They should be involved in the preparation of these celebrations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia MPs [[♪ The bell ♪]] with satisfaction supported by the President of the Republic of Poland by a draft law on the National Obstetrics of the Hundredth Anniversary of Recovering Independence of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u334	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With all due respect to the President, in terms of his form, such matters are not dealt with by law. It is simply a committee being built and a celebration is organized, for which the public authority, especially a power which is not a cohabitative one, but it is the government and the president from one political camp, has all the instruments. That's the first thing. Now for the substance, for the content. National Movement, all national organizations that participate in the organization also of the Independence March, All-Polish Youth, ONR, Association of Independence March, [[♪ The bell ♪]] These organizations therefore organize the Independence March to emphasize that sovereignty is a task for today. Celebrating together with neomarksists, along with those who want to take over the powers of the national state for Brussels... [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u336	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u337	...it's a cotillion celebration and we're questioning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u338	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Melak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u339	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important act for which Poles have waited for more than 70 years, waiting for the president to be elected in free elections, who will bring together Poles, who will tell them that love for their homeland, patriotism, fighting for Polishness is something normal and something that should represent every Pole... [[Kuriozum.]] ...and characterize his actions. I would like to say that when Poland celebrated the Święto Niepodległość for the first time on 3 May 1919, over 140 thousand gathered on the slopes of the Warsaw Citadel. Poles. There were representatives of the government, of the Church, of all social groups. And they all remembered and prayed for five generations that this time might come. Today, when the President invites such a wide group to participate in the celebrations of this wonderful 100th anniversary of Polish independence, regaining independence, voices of cynics, such as you who spoke... Mr Niesiołowski, are simply outrageous. He, who mocked the victims of the Smolensk disaster, who saw nothing wrong with the fact that Germany and half of Europe called Poles murderers, those who murdered in Polish concentration camps, today undermines what the President wants to combine. It's a shame and a disgrace to this gentleman, a former oppositionist, who doesn't seem to know what he's saying. [[That's the connection.]] I'd like to say that [[Game in the O.R.]] That's what the President is doing. [[Applause]] He's doing... [[Get to the point.]] ...is the most important manifestation of concern for the welfare of the state. You should all join in this, not from the position of claim, claims, but as Poles. We all have one goal - to protect and protect our homeland from the temptations of many who are just waiting to crush us, tear us apart, also with the mouth of some people such as Mr Niesiołowski. [[Member.]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this law and will vote in favour of its adoption and work in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u340	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u341	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on Decent, Community and inclusive celebrations of the 100th anniversary of independence, we support this initiative by declaring our willingness to cooperate fully in this respect. We share the thought contained in this legislative proposal, namely the inclusion in the celebration of the widest possible representation of the socio-political and cultural environments of our society. At the same time, we note that the development dynamics of Poland and its contemporary characteristics will be decided by an increasingly young generation of Poles. I therefore encourage - and I ask this question - to entrust some responsibility for this initiative to young people. As Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on I inform you that they are ready for such participation and want to take some responsibility for themselves. I refer to a similar sensitivity and paragraph in relation to Polish diaspora environments scattered anywhere in the world, encouraging the extension of the committee's composition also to these two environments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u342	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform... Excuse me, Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u343	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! What role is planned for the living most important people in the country - former presidents of the Republic of Poland, Marshals of the Sejm and Senate and former prime ministers of the government? Will they be on the committee? Don't applicants think that not a mono-party, but a cross-party committee can be the only guarantee of building a national community, honoring this important anniversary for Poland in a way worthy and building a community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u344	Thank you. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion of such an important event as the 100th anniversary of regaining independence should undoubtedly be marked by high seriousness. Perhaps the president was going to, perhaps these intentions are quite right. On the other hand, I would say that such a statement that Poles waited 70 years for this president to reveal something, this seriousness significantly disrupts. Mr President has had the opportunity to repeatedly demonstrate such an activity as to show that he is committed to national agreement, so that there is no contradiction, while the President is going step by step to the Court of State, breaking the Constitution. Mr. President, really calling something like the Front of Unity of the Nation isn't going to solve this problem. You have time, these 2 years, to show that you are really going to make these celebrations really national, shared. It will be a real concern for the welfare of the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fiction, on the other hand, is: the appointment of a statutory national committee is merely fiction. We're waiting for action, Mr. President, not a fake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u346	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u347	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The draft law states that the Committee will promote the idea of regaining independence at home and abroad, and will also initiate cooperation in this respect between state authorities and local authorities, churches and other religious unions, political parties, trade unions, combatant organisations and any social organisations that wish to participate in the celebrations. I would therefore ask the Minister to clarify what specific actions the Committee and the above-mentioned Committee may take. institutions to commemorate, solemnly commemorate events and persons connected with regaining and consolidating independence by the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u348	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for the Minister: Did President Andrzej Duda get permission from Mr Kaczyński to set up this committee? [[Shame.]] Because we remember very well how Mr Kaczyński reacted to some of the President's initiatives and some of the speeches. I ask because when the President comes out with such an initiative to celebrate the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, we hear from Mr Kaczyński that he will be organizing the life of the opposition. He will determine how this opposition is to function. The question is this: will you set up a committee to which you will invite representatives of the opposition, and Mr Kaczyński will prepare a bill that, unfortunately, the opposition is not worthy to participate in this event? And then what? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u350	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The 100th anniversary of regaining independence dates back to 2021, the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising. Very good. While the draft law itself suggests that it was designed for central celebrations, it is hard to imagine that the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of the Third Silesian Uprising will take place in Warsaw. Definitely not. They should take place on the Holy Mount of Anna, as well as the 100th anniversary of the Greater Poland Uprising will take place in Poznań. And that's where we come up with the problem. I want the left to know what the right is doing. A little over a month ago the Minister of Culture did not accept the territorial project contract: Protection of the cultural heritage of the Monument of the History of the Holy Mount Anna. It was an opportunity, the only opportunity, to make the celebrations look decent. You're very interested in this. I'll give you the relevant document in a moment. One more thing. Tomorrow at this time a senate draft law on the amendment of the law on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system will be examined. I'm not quoting the whole name because there's no time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was designed, Minister, the fourth monumental war in Silesia Opole, the fourth war on monuments concerning the period of World War I. Whether you really want the president or whoever you want...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u352	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u353	...to get this war on fire in Opolskie Silesia? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! When I listen to your speeches, I regret that the opposition cannot behave properly. You're even using such a beautiful, upbuilding moment to fight politics. You just can't behave. I would like to thank the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda very warmly for this beautiful and valuable initiative of national celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. It is an initiative to celebrate many environments, building a sense of national community. Members and senators working in the Parliamentary Group for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organising in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence by Poland wish to join this initiative. This band recently started in the Seym. A Multi-annual Government Programme was established, led by Minister Jarosław Sellin. I have a question: Is the programme the answer to the expectations of society and will it satisfy the expectations that you have expressed today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u356	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Unfortunately, I must say with regret that the statements made by Mr Józef Lassota or Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz show that even in such beautiful moments as the 100th anniversary of independence - honourable Members, and none of us in this Chamber will live to see the 200th anniversary of regaining independence - the state is wasting its opportunity to rise above its own prejudices and participate in this wonderful feast. Please note how beautifully President Andrzej Duda represented the Clearest Republic on the occasion of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. No one serious, because I am not talking about Mr. Niesiołowski's speech here, had no doubt that these holidays were beautifully crafty. Now you're talking about these things, you're trying to come up with all kinds of prejudices against the President. The President represents Poland and we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's independence. This is not a holiday for the President or for Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz or for the Minister. This is the feast of our homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, the voices are so petty here that I'm just sad. I would like to ask the Minister: Is there also such a thought to invite to participate in the celebration of our friends, those who helped to regain Poland's independence, e.g. Hungarians who delivered us here, to Warsaw, weapons, or e.g. those who were of a different nationality, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and died in our national uprisings, so as to emphasize also those who fought for the freedom of our homeland in various moments and were not Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u358	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! And I'm surprised at one thing. A few minutes ago, I was talking about how much I care about not speaking politically about the celebration of independence, so that it would be a more social, more academic holiday, so that there would be as few politicians as possible. And what happens here, on this platform, a few minutes after my speech? There is Mr Melak, full of aggression and such political cravings. What guarantee do we have, then, that the celebration of independence will be the celebration of all Poles and not just Poles on the part of the Law and Justice? That's what I'm afraid of - that's what I'm afraid of, and that's what I'm talking about. Mr President, it is not enough to file a bill. [[Remind Mr Niesiołowski of his speech.]] It is not enough to make this bill so that we can be united, be together, together. President Andrzej Duda had a year to show that he is the President of all Poles. And for the last year, not a single day has shown that he is such a president. Here, in this room, a year ago, he said he was going to be president of all Poles and president of the solid. Unfortunately, neither of them proved to be. That is why we are anxiously looking at this situation, which is why I am anxiously listening to the Member, and I am afraid of that. That's why I'm talking about the celebration of independence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It shouldn't be a political holiday, it should be over division. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u360	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm completely confused about this discussion. All the time, Members, especially the opposition, accuse the President of not being the President of all Poles. It comes out with a beautiful initiative relating to an important anniversary - 100 years of independence, it comes out with an initiative of a joint celebration. At this point, the opposition is confused. What do you mean, the president wants to connect? So you come up with imaginary charges, you come up with questions. I am not talking about Mr Niesiolovski, because this is unanswerable. So how do we understand the behaviour of the opposition Members who no longer like the fact that the President wants us all, regardless of party membership, to celebrate? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: It is not enough to want, it is also necessary to act.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u362	In the procedure of correcting Mr Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! I am addressing Mr Czartoryski because I think he misunderstood me. Mr President, I would be the happiest person if I could celebrate 100 years with all the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Only in order for this to happen, certain actions must be carried out. [[Conditions.]] Conditions and actions. Here you referred to my speech, while Mr Melak's statement showed how you can see the unity of Poles. That's how you see that in every speech there's a division between better and worse. I am definitely in favour of celebrating, but the Minister, these actions of the President, must be credible, and what he has done so far, puts the credibility of these intentions into question, because actions are important, and not just the inclusion in the bill. I'm already imagining the situation here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In which is the invitation of Mr Kaczyński Lech Wałęsa to celebrate the century together...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u364	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u365	...of independent Poland. That's what they're... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...facts, not promises. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u366	Mr Józef Lassota has the floor in the correction procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Czartoryski's speeches are always accompanied by such an idea, which I like many times. But talking about the president's excellent representation Poland on the occasion of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, and this is sufficient proof that the President wants to unite, Mr President, you yourself will admit that this is a little petty, right? I have a question, because I'm sure you didn't understand what I was saying about the fake front of the Unity of the Nation, which is known from the previous period. Please give at least two or three examples of what the President has done during this year and a half to actually aim to be the President of all Poles, so that we do not discuss today the artificial creation - the Committee of the National Cows of the Century of Reclaiming Independence of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please give such positive examples. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u368	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u369	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Fellow Members! We have many years ahead of us. The government is preparing for the adoption of a multi-annual government programme. This programme will be calculated for the years 2017 and 2021 precisely to consume those needs, which have also been expressed here in various speeches by ladies and gentlemen of Members, in order to honour the anniversary of independence not only in 2018, because for regional memory, for example. Śląska, mentioned here, is important years up to 1919, i.e. also for Wielkopolska, or even for my Pomerania, the key year was 1920, when Pomerania was incorporated into Poland and there were marriages of Poland with the sea, or it is about establishing the eastern border of Poland, the Treaty of Ryska or the March Constitution, and this is already 1921. So this program is going to be a long time ago. The draft Act on the National Celebrations of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaiming of Independence of the Republic of Poland prepared by the President of the Republic of Poland concerns an important issue related to these celebrations, i.e. the establishment and functioning of the National Committee of Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of Reclaiming Independence of the Republic of Poland. Because we think... Here, the intentions and intentions of the President and the Government, I believe, are the same, that during this reflection and celebration of the centenary anniversary of regaining independence try rebuild the community despite conflicts, despite the animosity, despite contemporary political disputes, on the basis of common historical sensitivity, trying to rebuild the community. It seems necessary in this context to highlight three other key issues for these celebrations, namely the role of the government's representative for the celebration of the century of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland, the joint visual identification of the celebrations and financing of these celebrations. A few words about it. I would like to inform you that by order of the Council of Ministers of 8 November this year. a government representative has been appointed to celebrate the century of regaining independence in the rank of Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Prime Minister Beata Szydło was willing to entrust this function to my humble person. One of the tasks entrusted to the proxy is to coordinate and monitor the cooperation of governmental authorities with subordinate and supervised institutions, with local authorities, with non-governmental organisations in the organisation of the event. These are the ones that There have already been studies, which we have conducted through our cultural institution, the National Centre for Culture, about the historical awareness of Poles and certain expectations that Poles have about these celebrations. These are very interesting results. I recommend the work of the parliamentary team on the celebration of the century of independence, with which I had the opportunity to meet several days ago and present these studies in detail. They are really very interesting and they also show what is the social need for celebrating such an important holiday. Incidentally, here someone said that November 11 is the most important national holiday of Poles. In fact, these studies show that. Poles asked directly, which day in their history of the 20th century is considered the most important day, point to 11 November. But the interesting thing is that on the second place they point to May 3rd, and on the third place - here is a surprise, at least for me - August 1st, not August 15th, but August 1st, which shows the importance they attach to this break of freedom, which was the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising in 1944. I would like to inform you that, apart from these studies, we have already conducted a competition for the visual identification of the celebration of the Independent, i.e. we have the logo of the celebration of the Independent, the anniversary of independence. This logo is simply the word "Independant" written by Józef Piłsudski himself in one of his letters. This logo will be used under the programme under different circumstances during the various events that will be initiated during these 5 years, both at home and abroad. I would also like to inform you that representatives of the President's law firm participate in the work of the interministerial team on the multi-annual government programme, for which I would like to thank, because here the synergy of the most important state institutions is of course important. I would also like to inform you that I have had a discussion on this programme with the Marshal of the Sejm, and during this discussion there have also been important initiatives which, I think, may be interesting for parliamentarians. It is obvious that we will have to and want to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the recovery of the Polish Sejm, sorry, 100th anniversary of the reconstruction of the Polish Sejm: in January 1919, the Legislative Sejm, so in January 2019 we will have 100th anniversary of the rebirth of the Polish Sejm. I'm sure it'll be one of the events we're going to want to honor. It is also worth telling the world, not only to remember, but also to the world, that the emerging Rzeczpospolita was one of the most modern countries, when it comes to e.g. about social legislation and the granting of voting rights to women - as the first country in Europe to do something like this. I also think it's worth... There was such an idea from Marshal Kuchciński that a museum of the history of the Polish Sejm should be created. It is worth considering and trying to achieve this in these years. We have wonderful monographs in the Sejm Publishing House and multi-volume history of the Polish Sejm, but we do not have a museum of the history of the Polish Sejm, so it is also worth taking this initiative. Within the framework of the multiannual government programme, there will be three components. It will be a program aimed at various central events. We already have a list of about 40 different events that we're going to want to finance with money specifically dedicated to this long-term government program. There will also be grants. A grant programme will be announced for local and regional events organised by various actors at local or regional level. There will also be an international component implemented to a large extent by the Adam Mickiewicz Institute, which is our specialized institution which promotes Polish culture abroad, so we want to go with promotion of historical knowledge about our fate, about our independence very, very widely. There are also concrete financial proposals in the President's bill, and we may make some comments on the division of responsibilities between the President's Registry and the Minister for Culture and National Heritage, but we generally believe that the President's proposed law fits very well into what we are also working with the government in terms of the multiannual government programme - a programme that will be finally adopted in February and will simply start functioning. We'll work out some financial matters, I think, while we're working on this bill. It is certainly also worth defining in this act the role of government representative as coordinator of the celebrations by the Council of Ministers and perhaps to supplement the provisions of the Act on the joint visual identification of these celebrations, which, as I said, we have chosen in the competition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u370	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, the head of the Office of the President of the Republic, Ms Margaret Sadurska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The essence of democracy is very often a dispute. However, there are initiatives that should be excluded from this dispute and this initiative is, in our opinion, a draft act on the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Recoveries of Independence of the Republic of Poland addressed by the President. I welcome the fact that the representatives of all parliamentary clubs supported this initiative, because it goes to one thing: it is to make everything that will happen from 2017 to 2021 - we understand that the apogee will be 2018 with a symbolic and very important date of 11 November - and the committee that will arise will be kind of a buckle binding all these bottom-up initiatives that will appear because we are aware that of course there is a very important government programme, a very important initiative to set up a committee for celebrating the 100th anniversary of independence, but we also realize that everyone will want to celebrate this important event for Poland, for Poles and as it has been for other round anniversaries, in different localities, in schools, in local governments will be celebrating this holiday. On the other hand, as you have noticed - I talked about it in my speech - we wanted this committee, because the essence of the bill is the committee, it was as wide as possible. That is why we have proposed not only representatives of the government side with the government representative of the Minister as Secretary of the Committee, because we wanted to show consistency, unity of action of the state in this area, but also invited the political side over divisions, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary clubs which are in the Sejm, but also political parties that did not get into the Sejm. For the President, the issue of social factor participation is very important, and there have been many questions about whether the social side will be allowed. Of course it will be, because the President pointed out that people from different backgrounds, representatives of social organizations, combatants, trade unions, but also people who are particularly worthy of the Polish State will be invited to work on the committee. One of my fellow Members asked me a question about young people. Let me put it this way: I can't imagine young people not getting involved in the celebration of this holiday. A few days ago I met with representatives of young people who have a brilliant idea to look for heroes of that period in their local environments. Today, various great names of people connected with the regaining and perpetuating of independence by Poland fell from the Seym Hall, but we are aware that in various regions of Poland, there are very often local heroes, who should also be remembered at this moment, and such actions should also be undertaken. As I said, we anticipate that the committee will have a broad composition. We are counting on you to reject the proposal that has been made so as not to proceed on this project. Mr. President in Art. 2 of the bill presented the objectives pursued by this committee, but left them de facto as an open catalogue, because he wants the committee, when it is set up, to set out various kinds of actions, so that it can decide how to prepare what is most important, celebrate, celebrate Poland's regaining independence and perpetuating it. I would like to draw your attention to one of the points relating to the Committee's tasks, to the fact that it expresses, at the request of the President of the Republic of Poland, its views on the issue of patronage by the President of the Republic of Poland. I'm sure a lot of organizations, a lot of actors, a lot of people are going to apply to the President for patronage. The President would like to cede the question of the President's giving of patronage to the committee as well as the importance of the events that will take place in our localities and which will be aimed at celebrating the century of Poland's regaining independence. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the support of the parliamentary clubs by one of the parliamentary wheels of the bill tabled by your President. I hope that if the High Sejm accepts this project, it will pass the legislative path in Parliament, then at the first meeting of the committee we will be able to start and work on what is being done next year, which is to commemorate the century of regaining independence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u372	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 24 hours 18 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes (prints No. 995 and 1155). I ask Mrs Lydia Burzyńska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes. The report is contained in print No 1155 and the draft law to which it relates is published in print No 995. The Parliamentary bill entered the Sejm on 28 October 2016. Marshal of the Sejm on 10 November directed him to the first reading at the Sejm meeting and on 29 November the Sejm directed the bill to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. During the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on 14 December this year. requests have been made to reject the parliamentary draft law which did not receive the approval of the committee. Four amendments by the Modern Club and six amendments by the Law and Justice Club were tabled at this committee meeting. The Commission has taken a negative view of the four amendments tabled by the Modern Club, while it has welcomed the amendments tabled by the Law and Justice Club. The Commission asks the High Sejm to reject the amendments of the Modern Club and to accept the amendments tabled by the Law and Justice Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u374	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, print No. 995. The draft law concerns the amendment of the selected provisions of the Law on Research Institutes in order to strengthen the supervision exercised by the competent minister. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start with the encyclopedic presentation of the term: research institute. The research institute within the meaning of the Law of 30 April 2010 on research institutes is a state-owned organizational unit separated in legal, organisational, economic and financial terms, which conducts research and development work aimed at their implementation and application in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2015 clearly showed that supervision was the weakest link in the functioning of research institutes, hence the need for a law that will strengthen effectively and improve the supervision of the relevant minister. The audited institutes, as the report presents, did not fully exploit their research potential. Implementation activities, which are their statutory obligation, have been carried out marginally by institutes. And although the number of patented inventions doubled, this did not translate into a corresponding increase in their use. Only 20% of these have been put into practice. However, in countries with a high level of development, less than 50% of the patents obtained are considered ineffective. The Supreme Audit Chamber also pointed out that only 5% patents acquired were foreign patents, which are particularly important for the economy. The current regulations prevent this project, among others. introduces, as I said earlier, the strengthening of the supervision exercised by the competent minister - to carry out effective supervision of research institutes where the Director does not perform his duties properly. The draft law presented to the Members of Parliament offers more opportunities to make the right choice of those who have the most important positions in the institution. The same applies to the appointment of deputies, and it should be noted here that the proposed solutions provide a greater guarantee of the highest quality of management. The project also adds new regulations which concern the examination of the legality and statute of the Institute of resolutions of the pedagogical council, sorry, scientific council. The composition of this Scientific Council, as well as these regulations, are intended to ensure real, effective supervision of research institutes, because it is in the light of law that it is responsible for the functioning and effectiveness of the activities. The project has a positive socio-economic impact, has no financial impact and does not provide for public expenditure. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Parliamentary bill amending the Law on Research Institutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u376	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very bad project, which in practice completely subordinates the institutes to the supervisors. This submission takes the following forms: the Minister appoints the Director without any competition procedure, appoints the Deputy Director, at least half of the Scientific Council is appointed by the Minister, the Chairman of the Scientific Council may be chosen only from among the persons appointed by the Minister. This is submission, as I said, absolute. All the opinions that have been drawn up on this law are negative. Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland - negative opinion, Chairman of the General Council of Research Institutes - negative opinion, Chairman of the National Section for Science NSZZ.Solidarity - negative, Chairman of the General Council of Science and Higher Education - negative, President of the Polish Academy of Sciences - negative. Today, the Law and Justice have improved this project. The Member said that the opposition amendments had not been understood and that the PiS had improved. How did he improve this project? Well, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when it is known that science can only develop if international contacts are involved, the PiS amendment resigns from the language qualifications of the director and says: it does not need to know any languages. Next, ladies and gentlemen, case. The Scientific Council conducts habilitation and doctoral procedures, but the amendment tabled by the PiS states that the chairman of the Council does not have to be a habilitation doctor at all. So these are the amendments that have been tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, this state of affairs deserves a negative assessment, because there is no doubt that an institute at the level of the ministry cannot be managed effectively. Furthermore, research requires not only freedom of thought, intellectual freedom, but also freedom of action, organisational freedom and decision-making, which is lacking here. Ladies and gentlemen, I've talked about this before, but I think we need to talk about it. I examined, even I can say, I searched all the legislation from 1945 until today, looking for similar solutions, and I found - in the Act of 8 January 1951, from that time. As I emphasized, this is a bill signed by Bierut, Cyrankiewicz, Minca. Is that a good inspiration for our legislation today? This is a question to which, it seems, everyone will answer: no, but the authors of the project have a different opinion on it. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the features of this project which I have presented to you here, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform pursuant to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 resolutions of the Sejm of 30 July 1992 request that the Parliament's draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes be rejected in its entirety in the second reading. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u378	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act amending the Law on Research Institutes, print no. 995. Previously, Kukiz15 in its position on changes to the Law on Research Institutes criticized the legislation proposed by the PiS, but we were so a little deluded that the changes were designed to improve their functioning. We have not accepted, and we still do not accept, the desire to monopolise the state in deciding on the organisation, management and conduct of research and scientific activities, but now we have lost our delusions. The draft law proposes manual management of management staff, concluded directly with it by the Ministry managing the Institute of Employment Contract, the reduction of formal requirements, competence requirements and qualifications for candidates for management positions, vice-directors - the latter being so crazyly argued that it is ridiculous - prove only one thing: PiS wants to fill the next spheres with its candidates. It's not that they're faithful, because it wouldn't even be the worst, but it's that they're incompetent. The proposal by the PiS Members is an inefficient tool in healing institutes that really need bold and programme solutions, but they will not be provided by appointed directors without scientific titles, who will also be bound by the hands dominated by ministerial appointed scientific council. We continue to say that it would be much more effective to consolidate many of these institutes or even to liquidate them - for the benefit of Polish science and certainly for the finances of the state. If we do not do this procedure, the introduction of legal solutions proposed by the PiS Members will only be an extension of the Misiewicz phenomenon, and now, about the horror, also Kaczyńskiski, in quotes, I note, in a moment I will explain why. Because a man with such a name as the president of the PiS - this is the only advantage of this man, because he still does not have competence and education - he recently got a director's position in the Malopolska trust fund. The idea of embezzling institutes can be supported, for example, by the provisions of the Act, which proposes the mandatory introduction of its solutions in relation to the existing authorities of institutes. So why don't we make the shortest bill, and then we'll be less ridiculous than accepting print law 995? This new law would be: the managing minister at the institute he is subject to, maybe anything. I know that at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, the PO and Modern Members criticised the bill for referring to Stalinist solutions. This is not only a political argument in this case, but also unfortunately a substantive argument. I will recall another position, an institution much closer to me, namely the vertical research institutes of the National Science Section of the NSZZ.Solidarity, which states: All the provisions in the draft amendment completely block the impact of the scientific community on the operation of the institute. Autonomy will disappear and key decisions can be taken by the Director and the Scientific Council. Given that and the intention to consolidate institutes within the national institute... - probably technical or technological - the future of research institutes in black colors should be seen. This project cannot be said more than that the Kukiz club15 is against the Law amending the Law on Research Institutes in print No. 995. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u381	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I wanted to present the position of the Modern Club on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes. The amendments proposed in the Act focus primarily on the selection of bodies of research institutes: directors, deputies, scientific councils, as well as on how they are dismissed, significantly increasing the powers of the Minister supervising individual institutes. First of all, I stress this on every occasion when we are working on laws on the scientific environment and higher education - that the Modern Club will support and support any attempt to improve the quality of these institutions. However, this law is a typical staff law, a law which is to open the door to the next Misiewicz, to people without competence, to people who are only supposed to fill the stools which are about to appear as a result of the implementation of this law, because the period of its implementation is 14 days. The law also grossly misses the expectations of the scientific community and the research needs of the country. There's no mention of it in this bill at all. We can look at the opinions of bodies such as the General Council of Research Institutes, KRASP, the National Science Section of the NSZZ.Solidarity. All these institutions critically refer to the proposed provisions. The applicant shall justify that the modifications to the research institutes are to be the result of an inspection carried out on 20 October 2015. However, the report raises a number of reservations about its reliability. The main point is that only eight institutes have been audited. However, this did not prevent controllers from extending their conclusions to another 115 institutes. Given that the conditions are unreliable, we can conclude that the effect of the proposed amendments to the law is not necessarily reliable. There are no substantive arguments here. The Act is simply an attempt to take political control of institutes, which should, as a rule, be free to shape their human resources and research policies. I've pointed it out many times, but I'll repeat it again, and the points I'm about to put forward are reflected in the amendments that the Modern Club will make. It is unacceptable that the Minister may repeal the resolutions of the Scientific Council by administrative decision within 30 days. It is unacceptable to abolish the selection procedure for directors of institutes. Admit it: What kind of Bearmen are waiting in line to take office as directors of institutes? The bill refers to Stalinist patterns, i.e. a law of January 1951, which has already been mentioned by my predecessors. Records concerning the direct subordinates of directors and deputies of the competent minister are even copied, one to one, from that law. In conclusion, we will apply for the rejection of this law, because it is based on a misdiagnosis, in which uncertain, unreliable, misconceptions are drawn from false premises. We will apply for the rejection of this law because it is incompatible with the rule of law - this law was not preceded by extensive consultations. It is introduced forcefully, contrary to the expectations of the scientific community and the needs of Polish science. In addition, this law causes controversy and is the most rigorous attempt to take control of these institutes. And, ladies and gentlemen, what I regret most - the project under examination does not entirely refer to the need to increase, above all, the competitiveness of research institutes in the international arena. Nor do you engage in any debate on how institutes operate or on how to regulate the financing of research carried out by these institutes. You are saying that the law is designed to increase the effectiveness of supervision over the management of these institutes. That's not even in the bill. Why is this a parliamentary project, why isn't it a government project preceded by consultations? [[It doesn't matter.]] Who, other than the Minister, in this case Prime Minister Gowin, should just encourage the academic community to make these changes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] so as to increase the competitiveness of institutes? Instead, we receive a document that is simply meant to provide political control over these institutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u382	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u383	I'm still making amends, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u384	Good. Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas has the floor. Oh, no. Mr Krystian Jarubas put his position in writing. He also filed a motion to reject the law at first reading. Mr Ireneusz Gains... At second reading, of course. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes. I would like to remind you that this project concerns an increase in the powers of the Minister for Supervision, inter alia. as regards the appointment and cancellation of the Director of the Institute and its Deputy, matters relating to the day-to-day management of the Research Institute in the event of the appointment or cancellation of the Director, the possibility of repealing resolutions of the Scientific Council which are not in conformity with the laws and statutes. During the discussion of the draft law in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, there were two divergent positions. The opposition tried to reject the change by defending the existing status quo. The government party argued that changes are necessary, because research institutes are in fact deprived of supervision, and the responsibility for the terrible state of Polish innovation is borne by constitutional ministers. In the opinion of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, this second argument must be accepted. In our view, the introduction of effective supervision of research institutes through human resources policy will increase the government's responsibility for its innovation policy. Of course, the opposition has the right to criticize every single personal decision, but the main objective is to radically accelerate in many areas of the economy based on intellectual value creation, and research institutes have an extremely important role to play in this area. By the way, I'm going to allow myself a little digression. As President of the Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team, I meet with a large number of development dilemmas concerning the future of the national electricity system. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the key decisions in the mining and energy sector, which will mean either for the Polish country to be or not to be, are not yet justified in analyses, scenarios and mathematical simulations carried out. From this point of view, the centralisation of staff decisions with regard to research institutes is as appropriate to provide real support for economic policy. And we think it's a misplaced argument that... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, if I may ask for your help... Maybe you should have a discussion outside the O.R. [[I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u386	I ask the Modern Club to remain silent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u387	Furthermore, I consider it a mistake to argue that entrusting the functions of the Chair of the Scientific Council of the Institute to a doctor without habilitation will lower its level. Discussions about whether or not to abolish habilitation have been going on for two decades, and countries where there is no habilitation continue to run away, succeeding in technological development. At the same time, the Responsible Development Strategy points to the need to reform research institutes in terms of profiling research institutes according to sectoral specialisations and ensuring the possibility of conducting interdisciplinary research. Ministers must have instruments to transform institutes and consolidate them so that entities able to compete on global markets can be created. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the draft law will have a positive impact on economic innovation and efficiency in the use of public funding for research. The Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of this bill, together with the amendments tabled by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u388	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. [[There isn't.]] There is no Member. Therefore, I would like to ask Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is to read as follows: Deputy Director appoints and dismisses the Supervisory Minister. Meanwhile, lips. Article 1 The 5th Act on the creation of research institutes of 8 January 1951 was: the Director and his alternates shall appoint and dismiss the competent Minister. After all, this is the same recipe, the strict sense means the same thing, and it sounds almost identical. I would remind you that, in accordance with the provisions of the existing Institutes Act, which has not changed in this respect, the Director is also appointed by the Minister. In the explanatory memorandum, the applicant shall justify this amendment as follows. The draft law assumes that the supervising minister shall appoint and dismiss the Director of the Research Institute without the participation of the Scientific Council. This option gives the Minister greater opportunities to choose the person to the highest position at the institution, thereby guaranteeing the highest quality of management. This is some kind of psychic, you'll admit. How can I comment? Or perhaps so that the text of the Act of 1951 published in the Official Journal was signed by the President of the Republic of Bolesław Bierut and the President of the Council of Ministers Józef Cyrankiewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u390	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u391	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Tomorrow, the High Chamber in this Chamber will deal with a ban on promoting communism or another totalitarian system, and today you are proposing to return this project to Stalin's solutions. It is outrageous to abolish the competition for the position of Director of the Research Institute, which is to be appointed and cancelled by the Minister supervising the institute. The draft of this law has been negatively assessed, among others. by the Supreme Court, which stated that such solutions not only result in a clear regression of the regulations in force, but also reduces the level of quality of management staff in the absence of a competition for the Institute's Director. The records of this project are also incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which guarantees the right of access to public service on equal terms. The scope of the public service also covers the activities of research institutes, in particular those with the status of a State research institute. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a typically staff act and the question which next attempt you are preparing in other areas for relatives, acquaintances of law and justice politicians, for the next Misiewicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u392	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You didn't sign off on the project, Professor Terlecki, who was chairing the committee today. No wonder you're embarrassed to sign a project like this. All the feedback we've received is negative. Didn't all these people know what they were doing or don't have the wisdom or the design is so futile? Let the applicants answer. Equally inexplicable was the speech of the representative of the PiS representing the committee, who said that one of the very important objectives of all these changes, a small number of changes, that was 10 amendments, is to improve the qualification and is going to make people with the highest education and the highest quality representative of the institute. Since degrees are not important, since knowledge of languages is not important and is not required, and at the same time one wants to talk about innovation, and indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the language used to sign contacts is English, perhaps you will change it, as an autocorrection. There's another case at last. For the 10 amendments, 7 amendments were such a leap to positions... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done. ...so slow down and hire those the Minister wants, without qualifications, without language skills...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u394	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u395	...but according to the minister's wishes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u396	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u397	It's a very bad bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u398	Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u399	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The opposition is very critical of this project, but very rarely refers to the NIK report of 20 October 2015, which shows that research institutes have not fully exploited their research potential, they have had little implementation activity, which is their statutory duty. Only 20% of patents have been applied in practice. So the NIK report is very negative about research institutes and how they were managed. Therefore, Minister, I have a question: Does the solution that assumes that the Minister of Supervision appoints, dismisses the Director of the Research Institute without the participation of the Scientific Council give ministers greater supervision of the tasks of research institutes? I have a question: Will this situation lead to the fact that research institutes will fully implement their statutory activities, which they are obliged to do, and will contribute to the development of Polish science? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u400	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u401	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, the question to the total opposition. What are you defending? What are you defending? [[Science!]] Have you read the 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber's devastating report to research institutes? [[Eight institutes.]] Did you read in the report about the improper supervision of these institutes? Do you know about the recommendations to start working on improving the functioning of these units? You can't pretend you don't know that. Don't you really want to improve the work of institutes? The Act follows the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber report. And my question: Is it true that the current regulations prevent effective supervision, and the law is designed to change that? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u402	Thank you. Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u403	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The parliamentary bill on research institutes is a good solution for them. The strengthening of the powers of the Minister of Supervision gives the possibility to regulate properly functioning research institutes. I have a question for the Minister: Will the amendments proposed in the bill contribute to increasing the supervision of subordinate institutes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u404	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The devastating opinion of the Supreme Court, the critical opinion of the General Council of Science and Higher Education, the very negative opinion of the National School of Public Administration. Question: "Is the only law you are able to withdraw from, the one that will get Mr Kaczyński's negative opinion, because it seems that you probably are?" Question two: You have already carried out such a maneuver several times that by law you adjust the requirements to the employment of certain people in positions, you adapt these requirements to specific persons. Lowering the requirements for hiring people who are to be responsible for research institutes is just reprehensible, because speaking of the fact that you want to improve the quality and value of activities in institutes, you want to appoint incompetent people. Probably all these actions are designed to put this law under specific persons. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u406	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I can imagine what is happening today in all places where Polish scientists work, what they are talking about and how they are worried about what is happening at the moment with research institutes, with Polish science. We are in a situation in which the ruling party, too, stems from the statements of my previous speakers, decided to enrich Polish science and develop it by eliminating foreign language requirements, lowering the scientific title in terms of leading the scientific council, and manual control from the Ministry of 115 scientific institutes. It's just impossible to do it right. Therefore, my question to the Minister is as follows: Does the Minister of Science, Mr Gowin, really accept this kind of fatal, in fact destroying Polish science and the opportunity for its development of the law? I've known Mr. Jarosław Gowin for many years and, to tell you the truth, I can't imagine him accepting such a bill. Anyway, as far as I can tell, that kind of acceptance didn't come out of your mouth, it was a general statement that you didn't object. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the darkness conceals Polish science after your bill begins to guide...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u408	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u409	...the paths of science, unfortunately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u410	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, Mr Aleksander Bobka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start at the end. Well, I am actually authorized to repeat this formula, as far as the ministry's position is concerned, that the ministry does not object to this parliamentary project. On the other hand, I will develop a few thoughts on the questions that have been raised here, and on the whole discussion that I have listened to, and at the committee meeting today, as well as at the previous reading. Ladies and gentlemen, this law clearly aims to increase the Minister's supervision of research institutes. It's obvious. In my view, this is mainly due to the fact that in a group of more than 100 research institutes there are very different institutions, very different, from excellent ones, from very good ones, which could actually be almost universities and benefit from full academic autonomy, to institutes, to, to put it mildly, weaker, for which a kind of manual control is needed. And there are also institutes that do not really have much in common with the mission of creating science. This is how I understand it, and I also understand the intentions of the applicants and some impatience, the impatience of ministers who do not have the tools to interfere with the activities of such institutions, which in this group are more than 100 institutes, however. So it's a bill to restore the minister's authority over the institutes that need it. On the other hand, I would like to say, in principle, by answering Mr Grupiński's question about the position of the Ministry and referring to the earlier voices that had been cast, that the Ministry of Science and Higher Education is preparing a comprehensive draft amending the law or the new law on research institutes, a project of some consolidation of research institutes, which for the time being is called a project concerning the National Institute of Technology. This is, I hope, the near future. Of course, talking about it now... It was rightly pointed out at the committee's meeting that we are talking about a virtual reality, and here we have a concrete one. That's the truth. But I am convinced that this virtual reality or future will soon materialize and be concrete and that scientific institutes will properly perform their role, very important in the Polish science system, because today it is so that more than 30% of the scientific achievements of Polish science are produced in research institutes. This potential is very important. I am also looking forward to working with the opposition here. If it comes to proceding the target law on research institutes, then we should find a common language. On the other hand, this law, as I said, is ad hoc. The question was simply whether the Minister would have an impact on whether greater supervision of institutes would have a positive impact on the development of Polish science. Well, with all due respect to my fellow ministers, I'd rather be skeptical here, because science and science aren't built up by the minister's supervision, are they? [[Applause]] It's obvious. But the situation in which there are de facto institutes that do not carry out scientific activities or conduct them in a very marginal way, and the minister has no instruments to influence such institutions, is also difficult to accept. Therefore, once again, the initiative of my fellow Members as if such an ad hoc remedy to these bad situations. On the other hand, Polish science, research institutes need a comprehensive law and a comprehensive approach to the problems of research institutes. And I can declare here on behalf of the Ministry that this kind of work is ongoing. I hope that soon we will have the opportunity to present the results to you in Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u412	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u413	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We're back to the controversial research institute project. Controversial, which even showed the vote at the end of November, because there were literally dozens of votes to reject this project. It is evident that it raises different opinions among the majority of Parliament. Speaking of opinions, the project was also presented by a representative of the Science Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity. In this opinion we can read, note: The project does not solve any of the most important problems facing research institutes. Interestingly, in the following part of the opinion, we can read that scientists' assessment of self-reliance is taken from scientific institutions. Is that what the minister is talking about? Maybe it's about the minister being staffed at research institutes. If the author of this project has such ambitions, then maybe it's time to change the profession? It is difficult to disagree with the authors of the opinion on this project if we already read into its main assumptions. The draft provides that the Minister who supervises a specific institute will be able to appoint a Director of the Institute from among the candidates submitted by the competition committee. That wasn't the choice before. He called the winner of the contest. Does this mean that the Minister will be able to cancel the Director and put his man in his place? The Act makes it clear that the Minister does not have to take into account the opinion of the Scientific Council of the Institute, which the Director wishes to appoint. At the same time, it was foreseen that the Supervisory Minister may not appoint a Director when none of the candidates submitted by the committee guarantees the proper performance of the Institute's tasks. What does that mean? The bill doesn't specify that. Theoretically, the situation when the Minister designates the so-called. its man, is a temporary - temporary situation - because after six months he should appoint a director in the competition, but the minister can always reject the candidate, and the pretext can be general, for example. that it does not guarantee the implementation of the tasks of the Institute - the specifics of course are lacking. Interestingly, to make it even more sure, three people come from the Minister on the competition committee, and only two define the scientific community. Could this mean an attempt to stubborn Polish science? Possibly, as we read into opinions about this project, we face further concerns from scientists. It is about these scientific councils, where most of the composition according to the project is also to be influenced by the Minister. According to trade union scientists, the blockade of the scientific community for decisions made in research institutes can affect their scientific results, and so, as we read in the opinion of "Solidarity," they see the future of research institutes in black colors. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that white is white and black is black - we do not agree to black scenarios for Polish science, so we will not support this project. The PSL Club will be opposed to the changes made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u414	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 16 hours 19 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of 300th anniversary Coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa (prints no 1128 and 1142). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2017 by the Year of 300th Anniversary Coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa. This draft was submitted by a group of Members. I would like to inform you that it is proceded in the new rule mode, which is written in the mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 33a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, to which the Marshals of the Sejm agreed. The Committee on Culture and Media carried out its first reading and examined the project on 13 December this year. The Commission adopted a draft resolution with one abstention. Here is the text of the draft resolution: September 8, 2017 marks the 300th anniversary of the Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of Poland with the crowns of Pope Clement XI. After the miraculous defense of Jasna Góra during the Swedish flood - on 1 April 1656 King Jan Kazimierz, taking his vows in the Lviv Cathedral, recommended to the Republic of Poland the care and defence of Our Lady, which he chose as Queen of Poland. We had to wait until 1717 for the royal vow to be fulfilled. The decision of the Holy See allowed the coronation of Madonna as the first papal tiaras from outside Rome and the use of the title of Queen of the Polish Crown. The coronation ceremony united all states and was a nationwide manifestation of faith. The act recognising Mary Queen of Poland has become a reference point for national uprisings, the formation of the idea of freedom and the hope of spiritual rebirth. The image of God parents on Jasna Gora - honored for more than 600 years - is one of the most important religious and material national treasures. Jasna Góra as the spiritual capital of Poland is the main center of this cult and pilgrimage on Polish soil. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, convinced of the special importance of Marian worship for our Homeland not only in religious, but also in social, patriotic and cultural aspects, establishes the year 2017 as the year of the 300th anniversary Coronation of the Picture of Our Lady of Czestochowa. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media requests the High Sejm to adopt the draft resolution submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u416	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u417	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Club of Law and Justice to present to you a position justifying the establishment of the year 2017 of the coronation of Our Lady of Czestochowa, Queen of the Polish Crown, on the 300th anniversary of this event. On 8 September 1717 the Holy See's decision for the first time outside Rome allowed the coronation of the papal tiaras and the use of the title of Queen of the Polish Crown. This ceremony was similar to the coronation of the kings of Poland and was a complement to the act of King John Kazimierz, who, after the miraculous defense of Jasna Góra during the Swedish Deluge in the Cathedral of Lviv, elected the Most Holy Virgin Queen and Patron of the Kingdom of Poland. Since 8 September 1717. Mary eventually became the ruler of Poland. Over the centuries, generations of Poles worshipped her as their queen, entrusted her to themselves and to our nation. It is worth noting that the coronation of Mary in 1717 was not only a ecclesiastical event, but also a state event. According to historical sources, the ceremony of the coronation united in the preparation and coronation of King Augustus II, Members and Senators of the Republic, clergy, nobles and was a national manifestation of faith. The coronation of the image of the Blessed Virgin Mary is primarily a manifestation of the sonly gratitude and love of God's people towards Mary, who is surrounded by peoples and nations by her motherly care. It is also a call to gratitude for God's favor and blessing received through it, which so many of Mary's worshipers receive. Putting the crown on the image depicting the Blessed Mother with the Child Jesus on her hand means the highest worship, honor and homage of the one who is the Mother of God-Man, Jesus Christ, who is the Immaculate and Queen of the world. In this way the faithful speak and worship Mary. It is also important to highlight the achievements and great importance of Jasna Góra as an important place of our history and an important center of religious worship. Jasna Góra Sanctuary [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's one of the... [[Time's up.]] ...the most important places on the map. Marshal, three more sentences.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u418	No, my fellow Member. I'm sorry, we have to keep time equal for everyone. [[I'm afraid so.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u419	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u420	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u421	Dear Marshal, Dear Izbo! As a Częstochowan, I am very pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 300th anniversary of the coronation of our wonderful Jasna Góra painting, without which probably Częstochowa would still be a double city, Częstochowa and Częstochowa. This is a special icon, which for the commons has a capital significance. At the same time, I would like to say, of course, about the whole tradition you are mentioning here. Of course, these crowns were linked to the political, but also social aspect, because from then on the first pilgrimage of Warsaw followed the plague, but at the same time it was a very special time for Poland, I remind you, the northern war and the silent Sejm. As for this unification of states, of course I would disagree, because in the German Seym Catherine the Great... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, Peter the Great. I'm sorry, because Catherine the Great is on top today, especially with regard to the Amber Gold commission. ... Piotr Wielki decided that the Polish state would completely dominate. Of course, we can show this as a certain aspect of jokes, while the icon for commons is of great importance. I, on the other hand, would like to draw attention to one more thing. Due to the fact that we have extended the so-called catalogue. the anniversary celebrations that we are designing, I would like to express an opinion which I hope you will understand. I find it extremely unpleasant that 2017 was also not dedicated to Polish evangelicals in the 500th anniversary of Polish Reformation. Well, among the followers of this Christian religion we also have wonderful sons of the Republic of Poland, wonderful people, professors, outstanding scientists, outstanding doctors and it is a pity that these two projects do not coincide. It would be very nice to have 300 years of coronation and 500 years of reformation in one holiday. And in the end, I'm gonna talk about this unpleasant example because these crowns were stolen in 1909. I will not mention the name of the person who was convicted for this, but it was an outstanding influence of the Russian agent, which, of course, should be guarded. Kukiz Club15, of course, will support this resolution, and I will be delighted to do so too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u422	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the opportunity to present the position of the club Modern about the draft resolution of the Polish Sejm on the establishment of 2017 Year 300 years Coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa. We are all aware of the role that the image of Our Lady of Częstochowa played in Poland's history. It is the goal of pilgrimages and prayers of many Poles. We have no doubt that on 8 September 2017, the anniversary of the coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa, the Queen of Poland, the crowns of Pope Clement XI should be celebrated exceptionally and solemnly, because, as this is reflected in the draft resolution: "The image of God parents on Jasna Góra - surrounded by worship for more than 600 years - is one of the most important religious and material national treasures. But let us also remember - and we are very proud of it - that Poland has been the homeland of people of different denominations and examples of tolerance for centuries. Poles today in the vast majority are of course Catholics, but in Poland there are also Jews, Orthodox, Muslims and atheists. Modern has always advocated a clear and friendly separation of the Church from the state, and we therefore believe that we should not adopt this resolution in the form of acclamation and leave the decision in the vote to everyone according to his beliefs and views. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u424	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present the position of the club of the Polish People's Party in relation to the resolution of the Sejm on the establishment of the year 2017 by the Year of 300th anniversary Coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa. This 300th anniversary of the coronation of the painting of Our Lady of Czestochowa is a very beautiful jubilee, especially for us Catholics, for believers, it is such a joyful moment that we can thus honor the Queen of Poland. Parliamentarians of the Polish Parliament have a beautiful tradition of pilgrimage to Jasna Góra to their Mother and this takes place every year on 2 February. I think it will be with great pleasure to participate in this pilgrimage also in 2017. There are places in the world where people wander, pilgrims from all over the world. I will exchange, this is Fatima, this is Lourdes, this is Guadalupe, this is Nazareth, Loreto, this is Vilnius with the Sharp Gate and this is Czestochowa with Jasna Gora. As in these places of Marian worship, pilgrims from all over the world also travel to Czestochowa to Jasna Gora. As for Catholics and believers, it is clear and understandable, but I am convinced that even those who doubt whether they are unbelievers do not go there without certain emotions, because it is also a beautiful story, and a beautiful tradition, and we can be proud that we have such a place in Poland with the Queen of Poland and this is Częstochowa, Jasna Góra. On behalf of the club, I would like to say that parliamentarians, Members of the Polish People's Party, do not make any comments or new thoughts to this resolution and we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u426	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the death of the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz (prints no. 1095 and 1123). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u427	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution presented by the Sejm Bureau on the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the death of the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz, prints no. 1095 and 1123. The Committee on Culture and Media at its meeting on 13 December 2016 discussed the above draft resolution. After the discussion, the committee introduced several substantive and stylistic amendments to the title of the resolution and to the content of both paragraphs. Then, in the vote, 13 votes against, 1 against and 2 abstentions gave a positive opinion on the draft resolution commemorating the Marshal of Poland. The above draft resolution, drawn up by the Sejm Bureau following the amendments of the Committee on Culture and Media, is as follows: The resolution of the Polish Sejm on honoring the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz on the 75th anniversary of his death. On 2 December 1941, Edward Śmigły-Rydz - a patriot, activist of independence organizations, prominent legionary commander and hero of the Polish-Bolshevik war in 1920. Edward Śmigły-Rydz in independent Poland was an army inspector, after the death of Józef Piłsudski - General Inspector of the Armed Forces, and on 10 November 1936 he was appointed Marshal of Poland. During the war of 1939, he served as Chief Leader. On the night of September 17 to 18, he crossed the Romanian border and was interned. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] In October 1941, he returned to Poland, where he soon died. He was buried in the Powęzkowski cemetery as Adam Zawisza. On the 75th anniversary of the death of Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to His achievements from the period of the struggle for independence and borders of the Homeland and honors His memory. So much for the draft resolution. It is worth referring to the fact that the discussion raised the issue of various assessments of the 1930s, when first the general, then the Marshal Edward Śmigły-Rydz had a very big influence on the state affairs. There were also various assessments of his behaviour during the September 1939 campaign, including critical assessments of his behaviour. It should be noted, however, that the conclusion of the draft resolution clearly indicates that the Polish Sejm primarily pays tribute to its achievements in the field of independence struggles and borders of the country. The Committee on Culture and Media shared the conviction of the Sejm Bureau that due to these merits for Poland's independence, because they are so large, it is necessary to celebrate the Marshal of Śmigły-Rydz with a commemorative resolution. I think it is worth recalling this period of his life, however, to illustrate more strongly what his merit was. Edward Rydz was born in Brzeżany on 11 March 1886. He was a graduate of the Academy of Fine Arts, an artist, which is not meaningless, I think, for the Committee on Culture and Media. In 1908, he joined the Union of Action and later joined the Union of Shooting. Then he accepted the nickname "Blade." Then he was the commandant of the Strzelecki Union in Lviv and editor of the monthly magazine "Sagittarius." During World War I he fought in the Legions of Polish Józef Piłsudski. As Commander 1. The infantry regiment distinguished itself among others. in the battle of the Konars. He was interim commander of the Legion Brigade I. In 1917 he became the commandant of the Polish Military Organization, anti-Russian conspiracy, but also anti-German conspiracy, which is often forgotten, also expanded on the eastern lands of the former Republic. On the threshold of independence, he was promoted to general in November 1918. He became the commander of the districts general, first Lublin, then Warsaw. In early 1919, he fought against the Ukrainians in Volyn, later as commander of the First Division of the Legion Infantry against the Bolsheviks in the north. On April 21, together with Belina-Prazhmowski's cavalry, he won Vilnius. In turn, as a result of the winter operation with the Latvians on 21 February 1920, he liberated Dyneburg and gave freedom to Latvia. Again in the south as commander of the 3rd. On 7 May the army won Kiev, which gave the opportunity to attempt to build independent Ukraine, to create a block of states between the sea, the concept of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. In the context of the liberation of Latvia, later fighting in Ukraine his military activities as a contractor of the concept of Marshal Józef Piłsudski should be emphasized. He commanded the south-east front at the time of the retreat as a result of the Bolshevik counteroffensive. Finally, as Commander 2. The army and then the central front on 16 August, being at the side of the chief chief Józef Piłsudski, led a victorious offensive from the Wieprzów region during the Battle of Warsaw. In September 1920 his 2. The army played a decisive role in a great victory over Bolsheviks in the German Battle, which eventually crashed the Soviet invasion of Poland. For the Bolshevik War General Edward Śmigły-Rydz was awarded the Cross of the Order of Virtuti Militari II class. On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I recommend that the High House adopt a resolution on honoring the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u428	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the resolution on honoring the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz on the 75th anniversary of his death. Marshal Śmigły-Rydz was born in 1886 in Brzeżany, Eastern Galicia. [[There's already been a story.]] He was a politician, a activist of independence organizations, a prominent legionary commander, a hero of the Polish-Bolshevik war, a general inspector of the Armed Forces, a marshal of Poland, the chief leader of the Polish Armed Forces in the 1939 defence war. He was above all, I think, a soldier and a great, great patriot. He began his military career, in fact, as commander of the Third Battalion of Polish Legions. When Józef Piłsudski and Kazimierz Sosnkowski were imprisoned in Magdeburg, he took over the leadership of the Polish Military Organization. During the Polish-Bolshevik War he commanded lieutenant generals, among others. Three and two. Army. In 1935, after the death of Józef Piłsudski, he was appointed by President Mościcki as General Inspector of the Armed Forces and then, a year later, Marshal of Poland. As Prof. Wieczorkiewicz wrote: Piłsudski's place as General Inspector of the Armed Forces was occupied by one of his earliest and closest associates, Gen. Div. Rydz-Śmigły, then promoted in November 1936 to the rank of Marshal of Poland. A painter by education, a soldier with a fondness connected himself with the independence movement during the First War. In the Legions he was considered the strongest front man, which caused that during the victorious Polish-Bolshevik war he received the most difficult operational tasks on the main direction of impact. Piłsudski, in his opinion in his time Rydz-Śmigłego, emphasized his power of character and will, which placed him at the highest among Polish generals. Some controversy arouses the last part of the Marshal's life. Historians say that although he was a good soldier, he turned out to be a little charismatic commander in the defense war. [[It's true.]] Together with the General Staff in the face of the Soviet attack, he crossed the border of Romania, where he was interned, and it should be emphasized that this internment was a violation of Polish-Romanian allies' obligations. The Marshal returned to Poland in October 1941, where soon after, on 2 December 1941, he died in conspiracy, to the end convinced of it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you should fight for your country.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u430	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u431	Given the achievements of Marshal Rydz-Bird...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u432	Mr President, we must watch the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u433	...from the time of the struggle for independence and the borders of the country, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u434	Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Mr Kukiz, has the floor15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u435	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! My honorable saintly memory, Corporal 27. Volyn's Cavalry Brigade, we're celebrating tonight your commanding officer, who ripped off overseas, leaving his own soldiers behind. I'm afraid so. [[Applause]] [[Right.]] Of course, we can stage the life of Marshal Rydz-Śmigłego here, he is of course the commander of the outstanding Polish-Bolshevik war. I remind you that on 12 May he was also a very prominent commander - on 12 May 1926 it was the beginning of the May bombing, ladies and gentlemen - the celebration of Marshal Rydz-Śmigłego, whom we do not even know the date of death - I do not know if you realize that we are not sure when the Marshal died - is, of course, some kind of inappropriateness. Inappropriateness is above all - of course it is the will of the High House - that the commander leaves his own soldiers when Captain. Raginis shoots himself in the head under the Vizna, when General Kutrzab did not specifically order him to connect with the chief chief to carry out a famous attack from Bzura, and the chief commander escapes. He doesn't cross the border, but he runs away, the chief never runs away, he probably wouldn't have been hurt. He was appointed President of the Republic of Poland - that did not work either. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Kukiz club will be such that each of us will have the freedom to make decisions, but we are against the acclamation, because it is an exceptionally positive, but also extremely negative figure in this whole tragedy of the Polish state. It seems to me that the chief not only of his soldiers, but especially my grandfather shouldn't leave his fate behind. And that's the position of the Kukiz Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u436	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u437	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am surprised that you choose such an inconclusive figure to celebrate it with a special resolution, because if we were to celebrate all the prominent commanders who defended Poland in 1919 and fought in 1920, we would have a wide range of commanders. We could choose, for example. General Kazimierz Sosnkowski, also a fighter from the time of the struggle for independence, yet with the carat, a close associate of Józef Piłsudski, who did not escape from Poland when the Polish army still defended itself, who did not give a shameful order... [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] ...in order not to fight the Soviets who entered the borders of the Republic, who fought heroically against the army near Lviv, broke into Romania, then he was the chief general, and he was one of the brightest commanders that our homeland gave. What's more, he was an excellent politician. I remind you that his order was not to cause the Warsaw Uprising. And this order was broken by his envoy Leopold Okulicki. Therefore, wouldn't Kazimierz Sosnkowski be more worthy of such a resolution? If not Kazimierz Sosnkowski, then maybe the Chief of Staff of General Tadeusz Rozwadowski, whose undoubted experience and contribution to the war of 1920 are much higher than the Marshal of Śmigłego-Rydz? I'm surprised at you. But why should I be surprised? Perhaps you would like to refer to the circular, which appeared in the official journal on 15 July 1936: General Rydz-Śmigły appointed by Marshal Piłsudski as the first defender of the country and the first associate of the President in government is to be regarded and respected as the first person in Poland after the President of the Republic. All state officials with the President of the Council of Ministers at the head should show him signs of honor and obedience. Does that remind you of anything? 'Cause I'm really sorry. [[Yes, sir.]] Therefore, as a modern club, recognizing the role of Marshal of Rydz-Śmigłego in the war of 1920, but not forgetting the fatal cult for Poland of the individual which was created in 1935 and 1939, its extremely negative role in the defence war of 1939, we strongly oppose the form of aclamation for the adoption of this resolution. We will not, of course, maintain club discipline here, personally I am definitely against this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u438	Thank you. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish history has many heroes that can and must be commemorated. They should be reminded of and build awareness of their achievements for Poland. But that person is certainly not Rydz-Bird. Rydz-Bird can be a hero, but only one political environment. Around his character, they tried to build a cult of an individual. But by their deeds you will know what the Scriptures say. The shameful thing was to escape from Poland and leave the Polish Army to himself. During the May bombing in 1926 Rydz-Śmigły supported Józef Piłsudski, sending him some of the troops of the Vilnius garrison to Warsaw, exactly 1. The Legion Infantry Division. [[Very good.]] In October 1926, he was appointed an army inspector in Warsaw. He did nothing to support Hitler-involved Czechoslovakia during the Munich crisis, although it had to be clear that after Czechoslovakia it would be the turn for Poland. On the contrary, he created an operational group that invaded Zaol. In 1939, during the September campaign, he served as chief leader. After the entry of Soviet troops into the territory of the Republic of Poland on 17 September, together with the Polish government and the president, he crossed the Polish-Romanian border with the intention of penultimately entering France. Interned by the Romanian authorities, he resigned on 7 November. He left Poland at a time when thousands of Polish soldiers were still trying to fight back the attack of two powers - a true chief leader. One of the first decisions of the Polish government on emigration was set up by a special committee aimed at judging the perpetrators of the September disaster. The draft resolution provided for the placing before the military court of the Marshal of Poland, former Chief Inspector of the Armed Forces Edward Rydz-Śmigłego, and before the Court of State - former Minister of Military Affairs General Tadeusz Kasprzycki, former Chief of Staff General Wacław Stachiewicz, Prime Minister of Gen. Felicjan Sławoj-Składkowski and former Minister of Foreign Affairs of Józef Beck - on the charge of responsibility for the state's bad preparation for war and the September disaster. When in autumn 1941 Rydz returned from internment in Romania to occupied Poland with the intention of joining the underground underground Polish State conspiracy, the AK authorities refused to talk to him. Perhaps in this fight he would have redeemed his guilt, but it was not given to him because of sickness and death on 2 December 1941. The Polish People's Party proposes instead of adopting a resolution to commemorate Edward Rydz-Śmigły with a minute of silence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u440	Thank you. I'm ordering a recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 55 hours 19 min 57]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 41 of the agenda. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is completely incomprehensible why the High Chamber is to adopt a resolution in honor of the man responsible, co-responsible for the September defeat, for the catastrophe of the Polish state, for the fact that the Polish army was badly commanded, badly prepared, misplaced. Is that what we're supposed to be worshiping Rydz-Bird? We are to worship a man who, at the time when the Polish army fought against two invaders, fled beyond the borders of the country? We are to worship this resolution of the man who ordered us not to fight against the Bolsheviks, by giving troops to the East, in fact, the Bolshevik forces, by giving them to war because they were not treated like soldiers fighting sides. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the High House won't accept this resolution because it's a disgrace to the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u442	Please, Mrs Sledzińska-Catarasinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Civic Platform Club did not participate in this debate. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the applicants why the project, which was supposedly born in the Sejm Bureau and was not approved there, was sent to the cultural committee in an emergency and immediate manner? Why do you, with your heroes like this, put these heroes in danger of the voices that came out here in this room? I would also like to ask how many more characters, dates, anniversaries of birthdays and anniversaries of death you have prepared, because when Marshal Kuchciński spoke about the activity of the Sejm, we have resolutions so far more than laws. We're becoming some sort of organ that doesn't really know what it's for. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And with that question I leave the applicants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u444	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u445	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, when presenting the position of the Committee on Culture and Media, the Polish Marshal Edward Śmigły-Rydz is a figure that causes some controversy, precisely as regards the last few years of government in the period of the Second Republic and especially as regards his attitude during the September campaign. I can also add that what is really burdened with the account of Marshal Edward chopper-Rydz is giving an order not to fight against the Bolsheviks. It was a very wrong order, the consequences of which were... could have been tragic for thousands of Polish officers. We're not sure if their fate would be different if this order weren't there, but we can't rule it out either. However, it was right to note that the great figure of Polish history is General Kazimierz Sosnkowski. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland celebrated the memory of General Kazimierz Sosnkowski 10 years ago, and recently thanks to Professor Sławomir Cenckiewicz and Minister of Defence Antoni Macierewicz, the Military Historical Office was named after General Kazimierz Sosnkowski. So that I think that General Kazimierz Sosnkowski will be more, more and more reminded, as well as his merits for Polish history, as well as the rightly reminded General Tadeusz Jordan-Zozwadowski here. The draft resolution on his case has been prepared before, only after the deadline. I think we're gonna have to get back to this case. On the other hand, if we could not celebrate Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz, we would also have to consider how Stanisław Mikołajczyk or Władysław Sikorski signed up in Polish history. Now is not the time to remind others of the intricacies of their lives, their attitudes, and yet the Polish Sejm worshiped and Stanisław Mikołajczyk, and General Władysław Sikorski, so because of the merits of Marshal Śmigłego-Rydz during the fight for independence of Poland, during the legionary period and during the period of the Polish-Bolshevik War, when he was particularly distinguished, he was the hero of the fights in defence of the newly regained Polish independence, however, the Committee on Culture and Media of Transmission recognized by a majority that it was necessary to celebrate - and recommends the High House's honor - Marshal Edward Śmigłego-Rydz. On the other hand, regarding the judgment of the perpetrators of the September disaster it is already, I think, communist propaganda and it is bad about Polish governments in exile after 1939 that they dealt with such settlements. Finally, I will add a thing that may not be so important now, but which was very strong in one of the last scenes of the movie - Krzysztof Kieślowski, where Poles at the Powązkowski cemetery lit candles during the years of the martial law, prayed, worshiped and worshiped at the birch cross and at the grave of Adam Zawisza, namely Edward Śmigłego-Rydz. However, it was a symbol of Polish independence traditions for Poles of years of martial law, and complicated life, ambiguous achievements - positive and negative - the Marshal of Śmigłego-Rydz, the Committee on Culture and Communications, of course, gives consideration to the High House, but recommends the adoption of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u446	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 03 hours 20 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft law on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. The project is print number 1151. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Budget Law for 2016, - amending the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016, - amending the Law on the right to reduced journeys by public collective transport and certain other acts. The reports shall be printed in no. 1149, 1150 and 1124 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles and, in the case of the 2016 update reports, listened to these statements in a joint discussion on these points. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. High Seym! After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete from the agenda the present meeting item 31.: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law amending the Act on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and devices of general interest, prints No 985 and 1080. I would also like to inform you that the Sejm Bureau has decided to refer the committee's report in print 1146 to the committee in order to prepare the revised report. This is about the committee's report on the government bill amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service and others, and I'm not going to mention it anymore, because we all know what's going on. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on: - a government draft law on education, - the Commission's draft law amending the law on the education system. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1119-A. We proceed to the third reading. I will ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to present this additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ministers, Prime Minister! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the governmental draft law on education law and the Commission's draft law on amending the law on education system. At its meeting on 13 December, the Sejm referred the draft to the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Three proposals were made to reject the draft in its entirety and 19 amendments. The Commission rejected three applications for rejection in full, accepted one amendment and 18 recommends negative. The amendment recommended positively is an editorial and legislative amendment. 19 amendments are, in fact, amendments which seek to invalidate education reform. Therefore, on behalf of the Joint Committees, I ask the High Sejm to accept the recommendation of the committee, i.e. to reject the proposals to reject the proposal in its entirety and to adopt one amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u448	Thank you, Member. As we have heard, the committees also present minority proposals, as well as an additional report on rejection of the draft law in its entirety and amendments. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and the first request by minorities. I would remind you that the committees are requesting that the second reading request be rejected. The adoption of these proposals will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by you, rather, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform. [[Oh, dear.]] Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Why are you going back to school from the time of the Polish People's Republic? The 8-class primary school was established from the 7th grade in 1966 under the 1961 Act and was called the primary link of the Polish education system. [[I'm very well-educated at PRL school.]] What charms you at this PRL school that you want to give it to our children? [[I'm adored by your story.]] Read the PWN encyclopedias. In 1970, about 30% of peasant children graduated from primary school, and only 20% of all pupils studied in general schools. The vast majority of eighth grade graduates went to lower vocational schools. You shout: Away with the commune, and you yearn for those times and the power that the government had at that time over the minds of young Poles. Reject this bill. [[Applause]] [[And what did you finish on your own?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u450	The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u451	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Law and Justice have offered us a reform that has never once given us any justification. We have not been given any expertise, analysis or justification that would in any way convince us of this change. You're offering us a change, and we've already found out on the basis of e.g. PISA 2000 studies that failed that system. Why do you want to introduce a museum at the Polish school? Why do you want a change that will limit the possibilities of children, especially from smaller centres and from the countryside? Why don't you want to level the playing field? Why do you think you're right, even though everyone, experts, teachers, parents, says otherwise? Why are you proposing a change that no longer supports society? Why do you want to hurt Polish children? Why are you experimenting on them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u452	Thank you. Of course, the Member here, so to speak, overreacted because... [[There were just questions.]] ...there was even a justification, you can say, very extensive of this bill. Michał Kaminski, a club, or rather near the European Union of Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Whether this reform or its possible rejection will affect the teaching of the history of Polish children, so that we are not the only country... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...in a world which, in order to establish the name of Catherine the Great, will have to convene a committee of inquiry. By the way, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] zu Anhalt-Zerbst-Dornburg, that was the name of Catherine the Great. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u454	Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Rózecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of work on education reform, a dispute has been revealed, which in fact is a dispute about the idea, about the shape of education, about looking at this education. [[No.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... [[What idea? Manual control.]] ...you support the model that has entered Europe several decades ago and which other European countries have introduced in their systems. [[You don't know the system.]] It is a path, elite, rankings... [[We're going back to the PRL.]] ...tests and, above all, selection of children. It has a name. This is a neoliberal system. He entered the Polish school with Handke's reform in 1998. [[Don't be afraid of the liberals, you'll think on your own.]] That's where we're particularly concerned with selection. That's the kind of system we reject. And I have a question... [[Question, Marshal, question!]] That's the kind of system we reject. Besides, the PISA studies, I'll remind you, reflect this and show that there's a problem with that. In the top ten in three categories are only two or the highest [[♪ The bell ♪]] four European countries. Europe has a problem, ladies and gentlemen. I have a question for the envoy... [[You're gonna fix it, I suspect.]] ...the reporters. Did...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u456	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u457	... Law and Justice through... [[After a while.]] ...this reform puts on the system...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u458	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u459	...real egalitarian? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u460	The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Marzena Machalek, is speaking, is she not? Are you reporting to the Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'll remind you that yesterday was a sad day, a sad date, but when I answer the question, I'll also say that it's sad that 80% young Poles aged 15 to 19 do not know anything about martial law. That's how they got the school. That's how they got their education from you. [[Applause]] [[But they know the name of the Tsar.]] It's... [[Room voice: Bravo, Marzena.]] ...a strong proof that the Polish school needs to be changed, that the Polish school needs to be repaired. I want to say that this reform is very well prepared, it is thoughtful. A lasting national discussion, a multi-month debate... [[Lie!]] ...wide consultation, there were several dozen hours of work in committee and subcommittee. Because the most important thing for us is the child, and for us the most important person is the child. We're leaving... [[Yeah, right.]] ...seeing a child as a semi-automatic to perform tests. We want... [[Yes, sir.]] ...that the man we have a duty to teach and shape... A country which has a duty to convey the truth about the national history of Poles must prepare young people for modernity, but also must teach a person to know who he is, to know his identity, to know his history. We are actually saving the Polish education system. In 1998... [[Yes, sir.]] ...prepared reform by Handke no longer exists today, was annulled in the days of the SLD and the Minister of Łybacka, agreeing to the teams of primary schools and junior high schools. Today we have more than half of our junior high schools combined with elementary schools, which makes these schools look like elementary schools. And most of the self-employed junior high schools have a problem with recruitment. These schools are in danger of being eliminated, teachers being fired. On the one hand, we change our philosophy - we want to see a man, we want to see a student, we want to give all students a chance to have a good school, and on the other hand we organize the education system. We're ordering the education system, saving schools from liquidation, and teachers from dismissals. And I hope you're... [[We'll see in two years.]] ...who defend their own mistakes and omissions from eight years of dismantling Polish education, will finally look objectively and vote for the good future of Polish children, for the good future of our homeland and... [[What kind of disassembly, Madam President?]] ...for this very good bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u462	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 189, against 227, and 10 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the second minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicant proposes to add a new point. The question is raised by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now, Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka spoke about Handke's reform as a neoliberal education system that is selective for pupils. Mrs Macierewicz, please see how you voted in favour of this draft law, the club colleague Antoni Macierewicz... [[What does that have to do with anything?]] ...as Mr Krzysztof Jurgel voted in favour of this bill, as Mr Tchórzewski voted in favour of this bill, and see how Mr Jarosław Kaczyński voted in favour of this bill. He was all for it. [[Applause]] But I now have a question for the Minister of Education and the Prime Minister. In accordance with this law, will the student know when Poland joined the European Union on the new programming basis after the end of education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u464	I remind you that the second minority proposal... [[Stop commenting, come on!]] ...is about the following point: Every parent has the right to send his children to a regional school run by a local government unit, so I would ask with sense and to the point. [[Censor of the Seym.]] [[It made sense and it made sense.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 77 voted against - 235, with 110 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose provisions constituting a different model of education system. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 8 and from 17th to 23rd, as well as amendments 3 to 5 and 9 to 19. The question is raised by Mrs Urszula... Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform. [[And you're talking about meaning, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you're wasting children's chances, you're wasting rural children's chances, and you want to prepare worse for studying graduates of those high schools of yours. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Because the rectors of Polish schools in their opinion speak about rural children, they say that the extension of primary school means the longer stay of rural children in less equipped and staffed small schools and that these children will not have a chance for good high school. It's not taking care of all children, it's not taking care of equal opportunities. They also have serious concerns that from 4 years of high school at least 2 years will have to be devoted to obtaining the results of the education of today's junior high school, and much less time for teaching. [[What are you talking about? The fairy tales were here.]] They fear that the graduates of this reformed [[♪ The bell ♪]] High school will not be prepared for higher education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u466	Thank you, Member. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u467	Why don't you listen to the presidents' voice? [[Applause]] [[Time's up!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u468	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u469	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! You say this is a dispute about the model of education. Yes, this is a dispute about the model of education, this is a discussion about which model works better and which is worse. If you look at it, for example. for the results we had in the PISA tests, there is no doubt that this model, which was until 1999, worked worse than the model we have now. In addition, you refer to the Asian model. In fact, maybe we should have a school like this. in Singapore, but your proposals for changes in education have nothing to do with that model. Remember, it is not just the school model that determines the results. This is also decided by mentality, which determines the attitude of children and parents to education, determines how children are involved. We know that some of the best schools are Korean, Japanese or Chinese schools, but we also know that there is a very large percentage of suicides resulting from school failures. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to see some [[♪ The bell ♪]] The education system, at least you need to know it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u470	But you haven't asked a question and you haven't... You haven't even referred to the first amendment, so I have to warn you that I'm gonna... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] And I must warn you that I will consider such speeches to be deliberately introductory... [[What's introductory?]] ...the error of the High House and the deviation from the amendments... [[And three days of detention.]] ...and I'll consider them interfering with the Sejm's deliberations. [[Touchdown, applause]] We proceed with the vote on the 1st amendment. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 230 and 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 24. Amendment 9 is linked to it. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform. [[Oh, my God.]] [[Krysia, watch out, don't come at me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna talk about the program base because it's the school's bible and that's what the amendment is about. It depends on what our children are taught and how they will be taught. [[It's gonna be boring.]] Today this document is in its infancy, we have only a sketch, and it is very strongly criticised. What does the Polish Language Council say about this document? The project is inconsistent, illogical, with numerous errors, also linguistic and terminology. [[It's not about.]] And further: he will cause knowledge to be absorbed passively and memoryally, that there will be a return to encyclopedism, that creative, reflective, critical use of knowledge will be beyond the reach of most students, that the content of education is outdated and - attention - reflect the cultural and communication reality from 50 years ago. It's the Polish Language Council. [[Applause]] [[That's right, the '60s.]] Why do you want a school that doesn't teach you how to think and gives you the benefit of thoughtlessness? [[♪ The bell ♪]] following orders and sailing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u472	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u473	...with the main current? Why do you want to go back...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u474	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u475	...to the PRL school? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u476	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 9 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 162 voted against - 221, with 36. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the third minority proposal to Article. 4 The applicant proposes a new wording of point 32. The Members shall raise questions. Member of King Gajewska-Płochocka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Law and Justice have spoken so many times in the election campaign about exclusion, about protecting children with disabilities. And we in this amendment want to give you a chance, a chance to come out with a face. In the bill, you rule out... [[To the laryngologist.]] ...a state of children with Asperger's syndrome and aphasia. Asperger's syndrome is a social interaction disorder and a holistic developmental disorder, in turn aphasia is a speech disorder - some children do not understand speech or can't express their thoughts. And we, these children, with such diseases, take into account in this amendment. What does that mean for them? That they would have the opportunity to apply for additional classes to compensate for the possibility of being able to go to school. And yes, you've already done this reform to these children, because in the previous system they could extend general education by one year in each cycle, which together gives [[♪ The bell ♪]] Three years, and today they're gonna be shortened...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u478	Thank you, Member. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska has a voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u479	...this general science to years... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u480	...Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question also refers to the dictionary, which precedes further regulations in the law, namely specifically concerning the wording of "disability coupled." As indicated here, from the scope of this vocabulary you remove the state, for unknown reasons, children with Asperger's syndrome and children with aphasia. I wanted to ask you what is the reason for this decision of the State, why you exclude these groups of children, preventing them from exercising the different powers that this definition gives in the future. Let me just point out that the definition, something that is later repeated throughout the entire bill, should really be written very detailed and precise because it receives the rights here and excludes the persons concerned from the various... [[That's not true.]] ...privileged situations. Please support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u482	Thank you, Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u483	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! I ask you to accept this minority proposal, because this minority proposal primarily concerns the claim that Asperger's team is something other than autism, and that was the argument in the committee. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a man with Asperger's syndrome. I have two children - this is a genetic disease - with Asperger's syndrome. And these people have very little to do with autism, and they have very limited potential for emotional behavior. Because you don't take that into account, they're confused with autistic children, and these kids have a very hard time at school. The description of Asperger's team will allow these children to have the same rights as children with other dysfunctions. There's really nothing in the way of listing Asperger's syndrome. The fact that autism is wrong with Asperger shows that Asperger is a young disease. When I had this syndrome, there wasn't formally such a disease. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we just have outdated medical knowledge in this area applied in this bill. Thank you very much. [[Long-term applause]] [[Bravo, Rafał! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u484	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voices from the room: Ooh!...]] [[Voice from the room: Do they want to reject?!]] [[Shame!]] [[Shame!]] 418 Members voted. 212 voted against - 199, 7 Members abstained. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[It's gone!]] In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 8 The applicant proposes to add paragraph. 27. [[Members of the Kukiz Club15, the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club and the Modern Posel Club rise and clap]] The question is raised by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club. You're not reporting, are you? Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[You have an amendment.]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 402 Members voted. 84 voted against - 225, 93 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The applicant proposes to abolish the requirement to obtain a positive opinion from the pedagogical supervisor. The question is raised by Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Minister! It's not enough that you're eliminating more than seven and a half thousand. Junior high school, you're bringing chaos to primary school, especially in rural areas. There are more than 2 thousand rural and urban municipalities in Poland. In these municipalities, if this law is adopted, modern, well-equipped junior high school buildings will remain empty, and small children from primary schools will be forced to go a few kilometers further to their schools due to changes in the area. The point of this amendment is that you force the local authorities, the residents, to decide what the school district in the municipalities is going to look like. Does a Warsaw official really know better about the school network in Wieliszew, Serock, Strachówka? Are you really a party clerk? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does he know better in Warsaw? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u486	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 229, with 37 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment, applicants propose editorial changes. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 356, against - 12, with 62 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 18 The applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 4th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 168 against - 222, with 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 20 applicants propose to delete paragraph. 3 and the new wording of point 1 of paragraph 1. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Anna Białkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The role of general education has been degraded in the proposed law. The breakdown provided for in Article. 20 differentiates young people into one who will know more about the world around her, and one who will not get the chance to learn through the reform. There is a need to develop professionals in a given industry, but why a good specialist is denied the basics of a solid general education. The current labour market is very dynamic. Even the best specialist will be forced to improve in his professional life, so good general preparation will be very much needed. In the back door, you're introducing your M.A., which is worse than your M.A. Why are you shortening general education by a year? You take away the year of general education from your children. This can't end well. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Do you hear yourself?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u488	Please. However, I would only ask you to finish your speech in the future or start with a question. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But there were questions in the process.]] [[But there was an inversion.]] [[The question ends with an answer.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 228, with 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. 25 The applicant proposes to add a new paragraph. The question is raised by Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club. [[Junior high.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u489	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are many bilingual schools today, where bilingual middle school has so far been in operation. Since you've already insisted on eliminating middle school, maybe we can work together at the bilingual high school of the seventh and eighth grade. We must not make life difficult for capable students. It's an extremely unpatriotic act. And maybe if Mr Suski had gone to middle school and not even been a capable student, he would have known, then he would have found out who Catherine the Great was. [[He wouldn't know either.]] However, evening opportunities is extremely important and the middle school succeeded, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Which is confirmed by all the tests... [[Not all of them, not all of them.]] ...all the research, even the research you're referring to. In 1999, the legislator opened the door for children with outstanding language skills, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you guys are closing this gate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u490	Thank you very much, Member. You didn't ask the question... [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: I did not make it.]] ...so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this makes it difficult for me to hold a sitting. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 226, with 36. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The applicant proposes that the compulsory level of physical education for upper secondary school pupils should be 4 hours. The question is raised by Mr Raś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I ask Members of the Law and Justice why you do not support this amendment, this minority proposal. For years, we have fought so that, at some point, children and young people can spend four hours a week in physical education so that they can benefit from it. It was the basis for building a sports training system. Thanks to the provisions of this chaotic law - you did not notice this - we collect PLN 60 million from the basic training of Polish athletes. It was in junior high that these basic trainings took place, these talents were forged. You don't notice that today. Please vote in favour of this motion by minorities, because this is important for Polish sport. As far as the basics of physical culture education are concerned, I would like to draw your attention to one more thing: generally [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to your records, we'll invest less money in kids by 150 million. Think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u492	Thank you, sir. In the future, sir, please submit a question... [[But don't comment, Marshal, it's unbearable.]] ...to direct the rapporteur or the representative of the government. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 175, against 230, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th amendment to the article. 28 applicants propose to add paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u493	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question about who said these words: Poles need this repair in many areas. It's health care, it's the daily standard of living of many families, it's children who are not eating much today, especially in rural areas. They're the ones who need help. [[Krystian Jarubas.]] This was said in the message by the new President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. Ladies and gentlemen! PSL proposed a good amendment on the feeding of children at school. A warm meal for the student regardless of material status. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] Minister Zalewska at the committee meeting said we would do it. Minister, I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Voices from the room: 8 years! Eight years!]] [[Eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u494	Thank you. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Calm down, please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 170 voted against - 229, 33 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. To the article. 37 minority proposals were tabled from 8 to 16 and 7th amendment. In the 8th minority application, the applicant proposes a new wording of Article. 37. Its adoption will make the minority's proposals from 9 to 16 and the 7th amendment futile. Questions are raised by Members. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u495	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! This amendment concerns Polish children. This is a very important issue, because these children often have very far away to Polish educational institutions, so they can benefit from home education. The regulations proposed by the Minister make it impossible for them to benefit from home education. Please accept this amendment so that we can promote Polishness abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u496	Minister... [[Voice from the room: One more question.]] And I am sorry, but the question is put by Robert Winnicki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minority proposals 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 21 concern domestic education. I really strongly urge you to simply support these proposals. Domestic education is an area where traditional attitudes dominate, parents really conservatively raise their children, and this applies, as has been said, to Polish education. You really take home education with this reform, you can say, by face, you cause huge problems to people who traditionally, conservatively raise their children, introduce public education, eliminate the possibility of participating in private private counseling, make life difficult for them every step of the way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, why are you doing this? You're hitting your own electorate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u498	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u499	...you're hitting your own back. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u500	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u501	Dear Marshal, If you enter, indeed you will hit home education, then you are certainly socialists believers, unbelievers, it does not matter. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Come on.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Both systems are bad or have the characteristics of bad and good. I have indeed seen in the committees that, unfortunately, you have crushed each other well. This is the problem with this patriotic system, because you can't show that good can be from the Platform, good can be from the PiS, you just hit each other. [[Applause]] [[It's bad from the Platform, it's good from the PiS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We proposed that you postpone the reform for three years and a referendum, and we did not propose this in the amendments, because we knew you would crush it anyway. The only amendments we've made are for home education. Ladies and gentlemen, the first amendment you are voting on is the most far-reaching amendment. I'll be honest with you if you don't accept the Kukiz Movement's amendments... [[Then I'll leave.]] ...then you, ladies and gentlemen, will support this reform yourself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] without the Kukiz movement. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u502	We need to ask a question, sir. Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u503	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister, how is the Minister of Education... [[A star.]] ...she said that if the parents didn't like the reform, they didn't have to send their children to schools and they could educate them at home, and then the ministry cut them off by 40%. It's a home-school fund. This war with your parents is still going on. The amendment concerns home schooling. Who chooses to teach at home? Different parents: living in cities, living in the countryside, working, not working for a living, but the common feature of these parents is that they have decided to make an unpopular and very brave decision regarding the education of their children, they have subjected their lives to this goal. So much for listening to your parents that they know best what their children need, so give your parents a choice, give them freedom of choice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't limit home schooling. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u504	But you haven't asked a question. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Why?]] [[But is the word "why is it a questioner or not?"]] Again, I draw your attention... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Why.]] ...because in the case of the 6th minority request, your speech was also a statement, not a question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I will not be able to tolerate such speeches. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What are you gonna do?]] [[An intolerant marshal.]] The Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The first issue that aroused your emotions about aphasia and Asperger. In this record... [[It's over, it's over!]] [[It's over.]] ...definitely and Asperger, and aphasia fits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u506	Excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u507	This, moreover, is reflected in the regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u508	I return to Mr Nitras...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u509	At the same time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u510	...attention once again. Don't yell. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, this is the first time you've returned it to me.]] [[Voice from the hall: Shut up!]] Mr President, I draw your attention. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What's going on?]] Once again, I'm going to draw your attention - it's going to be a disciplinary offence. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please, Minister. [[Intimidation! Intimidation!]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u511	Home schooling. Ladies and gentlemen, home schooling is that the parent decides that he is resigning from the education system and decides to teach the child himself. The money from the education grant is meant for... [[Limited!]] ...not for a parent, just for a school. Because the school supports such a parent, we have strengthened this support. It supports the child's use of extracurricular activities, for many reasons - he wants to be in a peer group, he wants to stay in touch with the education system so that he can return to the system at any time. At the same time, a parent has the right to rent various types of teaching aids, to use training when textbooks change and the program basis changes. Home schooling, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't limited it. We just said that home schooling isn't teaching. online and this is not contact with Polonia. Because it is difficult to say that a child in another educational system, because he is fulfilling a school obligation in another country, is also financed from another system. We have German, French, British students. This is an unknown situation in the world. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, please tell us how a student living in London benefits from home education... [[I'll tell you.]] ...registered at a school in Podkarpacie, how he takes extra classes once a week. [[Computer. And he's got exams.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Education has an offer - an offer for the whole Polish community, apart from Polish schools, except schools at consulates. He's got an offer that's been hidden away, and we're just starting to promote it. [[What's that?]] On-line, free, for every kid in the world. Program bases, exams, certificate issued are implemented. [[What kind of objects?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, home teaching has been strengthened, the system has been sealed and we are launching the promotion of on-line Polish language education and the programme basis. [[Applause]] [[You keep saying "enhanced." What amplified?]] [[Objects, Minister, objects! What kind of objects?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u512	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. There have been 203 votes against - 216 Members, with three abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. The formal application shall be submitted by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u513	Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask for a break, which I hope the marshal will use to inform Members of what to do... For example, as a resident, a Member of Szczecin, I would like to know what to do to get to the group of Members whose marshal is constantly punishing, for example, the group in which Mr Brudziński is in, i.e. those Members whom you are constantly rewarding. It's Christmas, I'm afraid of your Marshal's financial punishment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'd like to know what to do about it. And the other thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u514	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u515	...just as important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u516	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u517	Mr. Marshal... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr. Marshal treats the Sejm... Do I have my mic turned off?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u518	Mr President, I would like to return to you... On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[On your knees, come to us.]] ...I call you to order and say that you are preventing the proceedings of the Sejm from taking place because this was not a formal proposal. [[Game in the O.R.]] In the 9th minority proposal to Article. 37 The applicant proposes to add paragraph. 1a. The question is raised by Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u519	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Unfortunately, you have not voted on this far-reaching proposal. We have another motion, now we have a row of further proposals. It'll be an attempt to save education. Absolutely, Minister, I do not agree that you saved your homeschooling. She's the one in this bill who's gonna be completely killed. What is this amendment? The amendment is that it introduces... it repeals a provision requiring voivodship regionalization. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give it a chance, and the amendment itself... I can ask you the question: Isn't it restrictive, with regard to both the Constitution and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, precisely such a regionalization? I therefore ask you to take this amendment seriously, because this concerns an increasingly large group of people - migrants. They don't have a chance to study in Saturday schools, ladies and gentlemen, abroad, as you say, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're going to torture these emigrants parents, not only that you've already kicked them out of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u520	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention again. Ask questions... [[But there was a question.]] [[But listen to this.]] ...not to hold a debate at this point, not to make statements. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Focus, there was a question.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the point, the moment we ask questions... [[Stay focused.]] ...and we don't lead... we don't make statements. I would just like to ask you a question, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for Minister Zalewski. Minister, why did you miss the truth just now? It is so that Polish education is this domestic education, within which several thousand Polish children are taught. In the system you're talking about, you're learning a few hundred children right now. The cost of this home education is much lower than the cost of this on-line education. The exams they give are above the national average. But what will this limit and the de facto elimination of domestic education for foreign countries lead to? It will lead you to push Polish children abroad into a foreign educational system, which means you want them to go to this bad German, French, British school, etc., which was mentioned here today, that this is a bad educational model. That's what you want to do. That's one thing. And the second thing is that unfortunately Poland has only 66 Polish schools abroad, for example. France 495. And you are also reducing the possibility that Polish children abroad [[♪ The bell ♪]] remained in the Polish education system, really. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u522	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! You don't understand. I am not too surprised by this, but I would very much like the PiS to understand that Mr Jarosław Kaczyński will understand and that you will understand Prime Minister Szydło. How do you want to maintain the links of children who are now abroad with Poland? How do you want to bring these children back to the Polish education system if you do not want them to be able to go back to the Polish language and Polish subjects once or twice a year, so that after a few years of absence they can return to the Polish education system? By closing this opportunity, you are really creating a situation in which the return to the Polish education system is becoming impossible. Is that really what this is about? On the one hand, you say you want Poles to come back from abroad, [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, you prevent Polish children from doing so. You don't understand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u524	The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u525	I'll say it again. Perhaps the predecessors in the Ministry of Education of this they have not noticed or carefully hidden the offer for all Polish children, who learn Polish on-line, they can implement the... [[And then what? Other items?]] ...they can pass and pass exams. And there's money for it. Therefore, please do not make an opinion... [[What about the other items? Answer me.]] ...in public error. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u526	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment would like to raise your hand... [[Mr. Marshal, there's been a mistake.]] Sorry, my cards fell over. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] [[A reprimand for the marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 210 votes against - 219, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th amendment to the article. 37 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 10. and 11. The question is raised by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u527	This proposal also concerns home education and you, the Minister, either does not understand or deliberately misleads the public. Well, you divide your children for better and worse. There are children outside the country who can go to the Polish school there. And Poland pays for it. There are children who are outside the country and do not have access to the Polish school because they live far away from it. These children could benefit from home education in Poland under the supervision of a Polish teacher. First, you have reduced the resources for home education because you have reduced your education subsidy for schools leading this home education, and now you are throwing these children, Polish children, out of the home education system. [[Why?]] And as far as the online platform is concerned, I did this online platform for children who live, for example. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the United States or on other continents...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u528	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u529	...and they can't physically come to Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u530	Mr Lech Dobka, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! There's a total misunderstanding here. You don't know two things. What else is supporting the education of children of Polish origin in different countries, and what else is home schooling. Domestic teaching is a form of fulfilling the Polish obligation of the trained. There's no formal... [[Where's the question?]] ...the basis for a child fulfilling a school obligation, e.g. In Ukraine, Polish schooling was carried out simultaneously in the form of home schooling. This is an unacceptable situation. Yes, it is in the form of pathology. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, where is the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u532	Ladies and gentlemen - and I would like to ask Mrs Shumilas and Mr Dobki - you did not ask a question, you are just having a discussion that was held at the meetings of the Parliamentary Committees. So that I would very much like to begin or conclude with a question or in the course of the speech to include a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 182 voted against - 223, with 26. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The applicant proposes to delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 202 voted against - 216, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicant shall propose a different wording of point 2. a. The question is asked by Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform. I'm just giving you a heads-up. Ask me a question. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! I'll start with the question. Why doesn't the Minister like private facilities? Well, when it comes to home schooling, you force your parents to go to the public psych-pedagogical clinic for the opinion they need to give home school. Why don't you like private psych-pedagogical counseling? Why are you forcing your parents to stand in long lines because there's too many people out there and too little cast? Why are you making life difficult for parents who want to have home schooling, not only abroad, but also for those in Poland? Ladies and gentlemen, home schooling for your child may be requested by a parent living in the city. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Warsaw, living...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u534	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u535	...in Gliwice, living in the area... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u536	Thank you, Member. [[She's not done yet.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr. Marshal, I've been notified.]] I don't have a report here. [[But what is it?]] 424 Members voted. 203 voted against - 219, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 The applicant proposes that the parent may benefit from the support provided and financed by the school. The question is asked by Mr Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This question has already been asked by Mrs Białkowska, but I do not think that Minister Zalewska has heard, so I will ask again. What right does PiS steal from Polish children? [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] What right do you take away the year of general education from Polish children? Today's system gives them nine years. All children, rich and poor, learn nine years. We're gonna shape them in general. You're proposing an 8-year-old elementary school, which means you're taking it. What kids? From poor, disadvantaged families, often from rural backgrounds. Who gives you that right? 17 years ago, the world admired us that Poland, a poor country, extends the education of children... [[Voice from the room: Where does it extend?]] And after 17 years, you take it away. Remember, when you vote for this law, you rob Polish children mainly from poor, disadvantaged families, because the rich will manage. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u538	Thank you. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u539	Dear Marshal, I can hardly say respectable because, as I respect you, I have not been allowed to speak with the previous two minority proposals, even though I have been enrolled. [[Applause]] I understand that sometimes you have to keep your mouth shut. Then I won't keep my mouth shut. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll go back to the previous minority motion. [[So you've been quiet.]] Yeah, 'cause I wasn't allowed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u540	Member, please refer to the 12th minority proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u541	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, they were hit in private counseling. [[It's written down, I checked.]] I would also like to ask why, in that case, there is no equal treatment between the operators on the market. I hope the Minister will answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u542	The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Marzena Machalek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! What we just heard in the previous speech is evidence of it, but a historical opposition, unfortunately. [[Hysterical.]] You can see it in the answer and in the ton of questions. I'd like to say one thing and I'd like to concentrate. We've extended our education by a year. [[Cutting it short, that's great.]] A 6-year-old child is educated today, learning to write, read and count under the right conditions in kindergartens. And this is a year of extended education. [[In our day, six - year - olds went to school.]] So you guys wanted to force a zero in the first grade, and you don't know why you made local governments spend a lot of money making schools into kindergartens. We have left our parents freedom and today children learn to read, write, and count in the ages. In addition, we are really restoring the general education that you have destroyed. [[By shortening.]] Minister Hall and the Deputy Minister sitting here unfortunately put a dot over the Polish education system. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[What are you saying? To school!]] On 23 December 2008, they insidiously introduced a programme basis which, first, forced children to secretly teach in kindergartens and, secondly, introduced the basis that brought high school to the Matura Preparation Course. [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's a lie.]] Today you should hit your chest, apologize to the Poles for eight years of destroying the Polish school. That's the truth. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, eight years.]] And I'm gonna say yes. I am convinced that many Members of the opposition know this because the former Minister is not even shadows in your office. [[The rapporteur is not a club speech.]] Today, I'd like to ask you to think about it and help me fix the system you've broken. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u544	We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 201 against 228, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 the applicant proposes a different wording of point 1. The question is raised by Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u545	First of all, I wanted to tell Mrs. Machalek and the Minister that you can't... [[Question.]] ...state count. Before your shift, children had been studying since the age of five before they were retiring from six-year-olds. [[Applause]] And they studied like... - 12 + 1 is 13, so please do not mislead the public - just as you do. As for the Polish education system, I ask you, if PISA research means nothing to you, if it means nothing to you that Polish children are at the forefront of Europe, it means nothing to you, it means that you do not think about the education of Polish students, that for you education... [[Why?]] ...Polish students are something to practice politics... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Why?]] ...to practice politics, not to educate Polish students. Why don't you like Polish students? Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u546	Thank you, Member. [[Marshal, why?]] [[Why?]] But once again, I would like to point out to you that you have not asked a question. [[What if it isn't?]] Speaking per you is not the formula of the question task. [[Why? - there was a question.]] I told you earlier that I would have to acknowledge that such speeches are a form of disturbing the Sejm's deliberations, so I should again warn you that I will have to... [[Why?]] ...shows of this kind are considered to be such. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u547	Dear Marshal, If we do not make this amendment, it will actually be quite important to make it difficult in home education, in out-of-school activities, as if the school were not obliged to provide this assistance. The question is simple then: Is it true that not introducing this amendment or maintaining the facts will cause difficulties in home education? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u548	Thank you. The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u549	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Until a year ago, preschool education was banned, there were secret sets... [[What are you saying? What are you saying?]] ...and the pedagogical supervision was checking... [[This is bullshit.]] ...or is actually implemented the basis of the program that banned education. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Since this year she has returned, first of all, the freedom to choose her parents: a six-year-old or seven-year-old goes to school. 80% That's what it's decided. [[Applause]] Second, there's education there. It's easy to add, especially to mathematicians, 12 plus 1, because a six-year-old learns, that's 13. We have extended the time of general education. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: No, it's the same thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u550	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 201 Members voted against - 225, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 the applicant proposes a different wording of point 3 and to add point 4. The questions are raised by Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u551	Dear Marshal, The amendment is very, very important, i.e. The idea is for people who benefit from home education to benefit from the permanent resources of the school. They'd still use these permanent resources. In this respect, it is about enabling them to use e.g. from computer programs, possibly from some educational programs. Of course, the question is: Will not making this amendment make life harder for home education? I know the answer: yes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u552	Thank you. Mr Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why don't you like Polish children? Why don't you want a good education... [[How do you know?]] ...home for Polish children? [[How do you know, woman?]] Why are you introducing a law that destroys completely Polish education? In 2009, I'll remind you, you were talking about how bad changes in education are often, and now you're turning your education upside down. The lady says you're listening to the sovereign. You listen, but you can't hear, and once you hear it, you don't accept it. [[Don't yell.]] You impose your opinion on the sovereign. Mr Kaczyński, you and your formation will be accountable to God and history for the destruction of Polish education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u554	Madame, this is not a form of question. I would like to draw your attention and warn you, Madam President, that I must recognise... [[I asked you a question at the beginning.]] ...that by acting like this, you are disturbing the Sejm's deliberations. [[I asked two questions.]] The question is raised by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club. [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Minister! I'm sitting here, listening to what stupid things you're saying. How can you talk about secret sets? You're insulting those people who went on secret sets when they only had the opportunity. [[Applause]] I understand that the Minister has grown children who don't go to elementary school, but I have children in elementary school. [[Voice from the hall: Where is the marshal?]] You have no idea how education works. You lie and insult those who went on secret sets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u556	I cannot consider your speech to be a question either, Madam President. [[Ask permission.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[But the formal conclusion was.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 194, against 224, and no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. The formal proposal is made by Ms Krystyna Szumilas, Civic Platform. [[Voice from the hall: Shumilas?]] [[No, I'm pulling out.]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. [[Why don't you turn that mic off?]] The Member resigned from the formal application, right? [[Formal application on behalf of the club.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u557	Mr. Marshal! I'm bringing it in on the basis of an article. 184 for a break for the Civic Platform club, but also for the possibility of convening the Seniors Convention, because you are currently breaking the Sejm's rules: the rapporteur comes out of his role, you cannot ask the whole question, although they start in Polish with the word "why," and Mr Marshal thinks it is not a question. [[Because she doesn't understand.]] This cannot be the case. You're violating the Sejm's rules and the principles of parliamentarianism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u558	If... [[Break and Convention.]] If this is going to be a formal request for a break for the Civic Platform club, I'll take it. [[A convention, but a convention.]] It's up to me to call the Senior Convention. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Bravo!]] [[Undoubtedly.]] Does the Civic Platform Club request a break? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] How many minutes? [[Enough to bring the Convention together.]] 5 minutes break for the Civic Platform club. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 24 hours 21 min 31]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. The applicant proposes to add paragraph 3. 7a. The question is raised by Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u559	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is not true that teaching online will not help the children of Polish immigrants. Of course it will. And that's what this amendment is for. Many people work abroad also on Saturdays, so there is no time to deliver children, and the ministerial system is not perfect. It should be possible to open up a free market for the activities of parents. Nothing better than a free market. Therefore, I ask the question whether, in the 21st century, we have the right, consequently, in domestic education, to order only the public product of the ministry, whether we can open for home education also, ladies and gentlemen, free market comments. And it is not true either, one of the parliamentarians said that Polish children do not use abroad. They benefit because their parents do not know when they will return to Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u560	Thank you, sir. Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mathematics for counting to 10. If you want to have an 8-grade primary school and you add a year of senior year in kindergarten, that's 8 plus 1, which is 9. If we have 6 plus 3... [[4th high school.]] ...that's 9, and we have a mandatory education of five-year-olds in kindergarten, that's 10. And don't talk nonsense about extending something because you're shortening it by a year to... 10 that's more than 9. [[Applause]] And a primary school class. The second thing, Minister, is that you're telling complete nonsense. There's never been a ban on writing and reading in kindergarten. There's never been anything like it. [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] But... It wasn't. It wasn't. [[It was! It was!]] Show me that regulation. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Third thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u562	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u563	...I wanted to ask Prime Minister Glinski how you... [[The guy from kindergarten said something.]] ...Mr. Prime Minister, we've managed to stay...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u564	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u565	...on internal emigration...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u566	Thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u567	...because it's... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u568	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? 405 Members voted. 186 voted against 219, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Mr. Marshal.]] In the 16th minority proposal to Article. 37 the applicant proposes inter alia. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9. The question is raised by Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You are not strengthening home education, Minister, you are not strengthening at any point. Firstly, a district that limits the choice of school by parents only to the voivodship in which they live. Today is the case that many children benefit from domestic education in different parts of the country, being completely opposite to the country. Limitation of access to psychological and pedagogical clinics. Come on, access to extracurricular activities is also restricted. Often in home education it is in the form of a workshop done, children leave somewhere once every 2 months. You attribute this in this law to a particular school, attach the child to a particular school, and parents have a problem with having their home education in schools in their area, so that, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you consistently reject the amendments related to home education and hit traditional, mostly conservative, patriotic [[♪ The bell ♪]] electorate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u570	Mr President, this was your statement, not your question. Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u571	Dear Marshal, You're hitting home-schooling every inch of it. This time the amendment concerns the fact that you will withdraw your entitlement to home education, if for example. The child did not take the exams or failed them. In a normal class, this child can repatriate, but in this case you will withdraw the entitlement at all. What a fantastic, similar situation. [[Repetition.]] It's just that domestic education is treated like an unwanted child of education. And let me remind you that Leonardo da Vinci studied in home education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u572	That's very, actually, very... [[But he did.]] ...a witty question. What a fantastic... [[Did you know him?]] ...home education. That is not a question, sir, I am so sorry. Mr Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u573	I have a question for the Minister. Is it true that we have three categories of Polish children? There are Polish children living in Poland, going to a Polish school, we have Polish children going to a Polish school abroad and we have Polish children living abroad, where you take home education. You are taking something else because Polish children living in Poland can drive free transport or are relieved. Now you want to grant relief to Polish children living abroad and going to Polish schools, but you do not want a relief from communication for Polish children living abroad who do not go to Polish school. [[But it's not about that.]] You were supposed to level the playing field, you were supposed to treat Polish children equally. What are you doing? You divide Polish children for better and worse, for those that can, and for those that can't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm sure you want the ones that can be your constituents. And the rest? What about them? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u574	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is the adoption of the 16th minority proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 203 voted against - 228, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th amendment to the article. 39 (1) (a) 4 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u575	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Why do you once again divide children with disabilities into groups? Why do you lead to a situation where one of these groups is privileged to another? Why are you shortening the right to free transport by a year for one of these groups? Why do you differentiate students with disabilities? You're hitting your age again. Free transportation up to 24 or 25 years old? What is the cause of this, what kind of disability? Which disability is better, which is worse? Are you bringing her to school or to a rehab center? What's better? Why, instead of simplifying the law, do you introduce rules that complicate this law, hinder administrative action, which is the worst part, differentiate and divide the community of people with disabilities? I'm asking you to vote on this amendment because I'm afraid that people will go out on the streets again, that in the face of this disability... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...people with disabilities will go out on the streets with their children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u576	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed to the... Minister Anna Zalewska wants to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's not true. Children are up to 24 years of age in the education system as they were, and 25 years of age already applies to people outside the education system, but we continue to support them. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u578	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 203 voted against - 230, 1 member abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th minority proposal to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The applicant proposes to delete points 11 and 12. The question is raised by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u579	Mr. Marshal! Let me start with the question: Why do you not like local governments so much? Maybe because they are good hosts in their territory, that they ensure that municipalities, cities and villages develop, that they also care about education. You have adopted such a principle that the local government is to pay for education, and the school curator will approve organizational projects. We're against it. Education curator is supposed to guard the quality of education, not draw money from local governments' pockets. You're going to turn a parole officer into an armed arm of the government against local governments. [[Applause]] You can't do that. That's all we've managed to do: create a good self-government. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u580	Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club. [[Why?]] [[Why?]] [[First of all, and second of all, the question was for the Minister.]] Excuse me, Mrs. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u581	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! You like to talk a lot about the fact that they are trying to reduce bureaucracy, that they think that this bureaucracy in schools is too much, that it is important to give greater freedom to teachers or schools. At the same time, you are forcing all schools to approve the school's worksheets in the previous law. The question is: Why do you want school and everything in Poland to be central? Why does everything have to be supervised by the probation officer? Why can't you trust local governments, teachers and school heads? Why do you think that centrally from Warsaw you are able to control everything, to the smallest facility in Poland? Why can't you just understand that Poles are reasonable and can govern themselves in the region, in the local government? Why do you have such a deep conviction that only one man can be right? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u582	Mr Lech Dobka, Mr Law and Justice has the floor. Just, sir, ask me to ask you a question. [[He doesn't have any questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u583	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the probation officer gives an opinion and does not approve, as Minister Shumilas said, the work organisation sheets? Is it true that, at the moment, educational training is being carried out in the education institutions so that they can read the worksheet? The question can therefore be asked: How has legal control been carried out over the implementation of teaching plans for the previous 8 years? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u584	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Marzena Machalek, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u585	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As rapporteur, I think it is my duty to say that all Members on the committee like local governments and even those local authorities support them. And this bill, among others. in this record, it is a support for the local government. This law restores the competences that were taken away from school curators in 2009. The Commission believes that, and so it has voted... it has restored the responsibility of the State for education, because we believe that it is very important that you do not evade responsibility for education. It is therefore a restoration of a normal balance between the managing authority, the self-government, and the supervisory authority, which is the curator. It has nothing to do with liking and dislike. It is good for teachers, it is good for directors and for local governments, because it is possible to appeal the decision of the local government... [[Do not go beyond the role of the rapporteur.]] ...to the education curator, and you can also appeal to the probation officer's decision. This is a country you have withdrawn from the responsibility for education. This draft law adopted by a majority in committee restores the responsibility of the State for education, restores the powers of the curator. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u586	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 168 voted against - 229, 35 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We've already considered Amendment 9. In the 10th amendment to the article. 55 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 9. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club. [[Nah...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why don't you like teachers so much? The amendment concerns the clarification of the guardian's powers vis-à-vis teachers. We want to limit the access of the curator to the personal data of teachers only to documents confirming qualifications, because such qualifications are checked by the curator of education. You want him to have access to all personal information related to the teacher. And today, when teachers protest this shift, school curators call them on the rug and threaten to fire them. Such situations take place in different voivodships, such situations take place in relation to teachers and school heads. [[Don't lie to me.]] It's your arm in the form of an education curator that's supposed to silence Polish teachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's supposed to shut up the school heads. Why are you doing this? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u588	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 162 voted against - 230, 36 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 63 applicants propose to add paragraph. 21a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You are demolishing a tediously built and functioning education system in Poland. At the same time, by declaring love, you are receiving further competences from the local government, which is responsible for running schools and educational institutions in Poland. My question is: Is it true that, due to lack of trust and respect for self-government, you are taking away from the authority leading to the possibility of extending the term of office of a good or very well-working school director and institution? If that is not true, then you will support our amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u590	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 146 voted against - 225, 55 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will render the 18th minority proposal irrelevant. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u591	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is an amendment that concerns the National Education Council. This board consists of representatives of voivodship councils, representatives of trade unions, local authorities. During the committee's meeting, non-governmental organisations who are involved in education on a daily basis also notified their contributions to this board. Your love for NGOs is well known. [[Applause]] The minister promised she'd think about it. We have therefore tabled an amendment and in this amendment we propose that non-governmental organisations involved in education also be able to participate in the work of the National Education Council. And here's the question, marshal. Why did the Minister forget to inform the Members of her home club after thinking about it, because when you voted on this amendment, you blew it up? So you care so much about NGOs that you don't even let them into the National Education Council. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u592	Mr Stępień, President of the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What is your idea of creating national education councils, which are to be composed of voivodship councils, if at this moment they do not form a school board? Only a few percent of schools have school boards, because parents don't even know what powers and opportunities the school board gives. [[Oh, my gosh!]] Will you apply coercion? Thank you. [[The question was, it was.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u594	The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! For the last eight years, under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, it's been a dead body. So I'm starting to build it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But without NGOs.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u596	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 169 voted against - 229, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th minority proposal to Article. 76 The applicant shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 165 votes against, 224 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 13th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 95a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u597	Why are you against Polish children, these little children? [[Oh, Jesus.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Why are you throwing out the education system law to limit the number of children in the I-III wards? We have introduced this limitation in reducing school age. Then you yelled at us so much, you yelled at us that it had to be done. We did it. You then voted that in classes I-III the number of children in the ward should not exceed 25. Today, you're giving up on this limit. You're removing it from the law. Why? [[Shame!]] Why, Minister, you do not want to give this limitation in a situation where you are funding the Polish education system a total destruction and when children, parents, teachers do not know what schools will look like since [[♪ The bell ♪]] 1 September 2017? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u598	Thank you very much. The Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's not true. There's a delegation to the regulation, and we're keeping that number of children. [[But you're losing the bill!]] I would like to remind the High House that we know for sure that the average number of children in primary schools is 19. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u600	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 229, with 36. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 98. In the 15th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 99. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 19th minority proposal. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u601	The Minister promised not to smoke the school: less paperwork, less bureaucracy. [[Voice from the hall: Less Pope.]] But why didn't you follow that statement, that slogan? If they had gone, the sound of this article we're talking about would have been different. There we would not have a detailed calculation on two pages - 26 points - which is to be a school statute. What are we proposing? We propose that the Minister should also define the framework statute by regulation. However, the detailed calculation of the framework statute is a difference, because the framework statute gives the school this little autonomy - innovation and creativity. However, you want to settle everything to the end. These statutes will have dozens of pages. Efforts to regulate [[♪ The bell ♪]] Everything is an attribute of authoritarian minds. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u602	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u603	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! When the Minister talked about the education bill, about the pre-reform education system, she said that it was a document that could not be read in principle: a long, complicated one requires a rewrite. She talked with nostalgia about it being a document that should actually be much shorter and more compact. What do we have? We got 700 pages of paperwork. I looked at the law introducing the education system after the reform of Jędrzejewicz in 1932. He's counting seven pages. Here we have one law of 160 and the other one of 280 pages of printing. Ladies and gentlemen, there's really no reason to put everything in the bill. The statute appears not in one place, but in five places, for each institution we have a specific type of statute. Why can it not actually be, as defined by the Regulation, a single framework statute? Moreover, it is even stated that there must be information in the statutes about what outfits they're carrying children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if they can carry cell phones or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u604	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u605	There's gonna be a shoe number soon. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u606	Thank you, Member. The Minister wants to speak. Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, of course. That's not true. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The statute, ladies and gentlemen, is an important element and an important school document. We've come up against the requests of teachers and directors... [[Which one?]] ...and these entries that you have been talking about are repeated from the previous one. Thank you. [[Well, then why...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u608	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 14 and 15 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. There have been 34 abstentions in favour, 169 against - 230. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. 99 The applicant proposes to delete points 3 and 4. The question is asked by Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Until a few years ago, you were defending junior high. Today's middle school is defending itself because of you. Why? You used to be a free man and tell me what you thought. Today's order is to eliminate them. Why? Because middle school brings up thinking young people, and you've learned that today, because middle school students have come to see you since you didn't want to meet them in their region. So today you are introducing legislation in this law that will oblige schools, students, teachers to behave and if they are not allowed to behave. I understand that only uniforms fit you from the previous system. Why? Because there's a simpler way than uniforms to make it a kamasha and the Territorial Defense Army. I will not allow my daughter to be incorporated into the institution that you are introducing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u610	Thank you, Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 229, with 36. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 16th amendment to the article. 100 applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club. [[No, he quit.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 162 voted against - 226, 36 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 105 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3 and 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Oh, there'll be screaming in a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You just said on our next amendments that you were in favour, but you voted against. Now there's an amendment that says you're throwing away... increasing the number of children in the common room. That is de facto true if you do not vote on this amendment. This is a situation similar to that when you actually increased the number of children in classes, and you said you didn't want to. Minister, this dispute is a dispute about the idea, this is a dispute about the foundations of Polish education, about the good foundations of a good Polish school. Do not destroy what has been developed for 17 years, which is confirmed by research. Think about how you're going to sign up in history, how this is going to end for you, because there are already protests on the part of local governments, parents, children. I myself received several dozen e-mails and dozens of phone calls. [[♪ The bell ♪]] School circuits are showing up and everybody's protesting. And it's gonna be your fault. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u612	However, I ask you a question, Madam Member. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 227, with 32 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th minority proposal to Article. 106 The applicant proposes to delete paragraph. 2. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! You can see in this bill that you want to decide everything. Why do you even want to decide things like this like payback for dinners? I have one more question for the Minister. Minister, who prepared this bill? Was it prepared by politicians or scientists? The answer can only be one: it was prepared by politicians, because scientists, as they prepare such a reform, test it first on animals and then on our children. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Wow!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u614	Well, sir, your comparison is completely inappropriate here. [[They go through themselves, they don't know what to say anymore.]] Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask the Minister why, with stubbornness of a better case, he continues to say that this law will not result in dismissal of teachers as well as financial consequences for municipalities. In Gdańsk it has already been calculated that the work will lose 250 people who are currently on health leave, plus 250 people who are at risk of dismissal, plus 100 administrative staff. A total of 600 people, and this whole transition will cost 25 million. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Eight years, 40,000. You fired the teachers.]] So I ask the Minister what he wants to cover so much in every municipality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u616	Mr Lech Dobka, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have a question for the rapporteur. What's the logic in those voices we just heard? [[None.]] Some say there's too much in the bill and it should be in the regulations, others say it's the other way around. And I would like to point out that, in the previous term, it was the Constitutional Tribunal that dropped the law on the education system, and we had to expand certain chapters, that until we ran out of alphabets to numbered paragraphs a few times. [[That's not the point.]] And, for example, We have paragraphs 40zzaa. [[It's a toi-toi-toi.]] So hold your grudge against the Constitutional Tribunal under the direction of President Rzepliński. [[Applause]] [[Very witty, very long thought and invented.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u618	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 229, with 35 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 21st minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose a different wording of paragraph 127. 10. The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u619	Dear Marshal, You don't like anything that's private. What's public... Because, as in Parliament, the parties are the leaders, the partiocratic system, so you want to have a state built like feudalism. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to stress that all the opinions - this is the case in the current project - all the opinions about the need for early support for the development of the child, a ruling on the need for special education, individual training, all of which require advice in the current draft, parents' request and a request for answers through public advice. Why, then, can we not show in this amendment that we are opening up to non-public pedagogical and psychology counseling? This is a very valuable phenomenon. Nobody's killed competitiveness yet, but you're afraid of competitiveness because you're afraid of JOWs. Then it would be competitive and we would not discuss such things. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u620	Thank you. Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since a few hundred redundancies appeared here in Gdansk, I have a question of whether it is true that decisions about the school network are made by the governing body, i.e. the local government, so if, God forbid, such redundancies will occur in Gdansk, it will be the decision of President Paweł Adamowicz from the Civic Platform and the Civic Platform ruling in Gdansk. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's what this is all about!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u622	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 203 votes against - 228, two Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 22nd minority proposal and the same 18th amendment to Article. 127 applicants propose to add paragraph. 10a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This previous speech by a Member from Law and Justice is the exact intention you want to make, right? [[Applause]] [[Yes!]] You're turning the whole education system upside down, and you're dropping the bill on the local government, and you think it's okay. On the other hand, the amendment I would like to mention concerns decisions on the need for early support and decisions on the need for special training. Until now, these decisions could have been issued by public and non-public councils. This non-public state throws in the basket, as if they were worse, and these non-public ones, I will remind you, also employ professionals who have the authority for public workers psychological and pedagogical counseling and would be really helpful here. So the first question, Mr. Marshal, the first question, why are you doing this? Why do you send thousands of Polish parents to one line in public counseling, while they could also use private counseling? And then there's the second question. How's it going? [[♪ The bell ♪]] to your act on the support of pregnant women you tell them you're guaranteeing them custody...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u624	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u625	...help and case law? How's that? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u626	Mr Lech Dobka, Mr Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u627	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! A question for the Minister. Is it true that in dozens of cases it has already been found that in some localities it is estimated that 80% of the The population receives judgments about the need... [[Early aid.]] ...to provide early support for the creation of a pair of primary schools - a non-public clinic and this cooperation has worked well that this type of activity has been in operation for several years? [[But come on, you can't decide on one example...]] And what has the Civic Platform and PSL coalition done in the last eight years to prevent such pathology?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u628	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority proposal and the same 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 168 voted against - 230, 33 Members abstained. The Sejm's amendment and the minority's request rejected. In the 23rd minority application, the applicant proposes a new wording of the Article. 139. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 19. The question is raised by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u629	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! You're talking a lot about segregation. That's not what I'd say - about catching, for example. talents. Bilingual classes and schools are an opportunity for young people to be able, sometimes from very poor families, if they have language skills, to be educated in a second language. Bilingual classes are built so that not only do they teach the second language, but also other subjects take place in this language. From its very nature and shape... There is no way that each primary school has bilingual classes, for example because there are schools that have several dozen pupils and one class in a level. What is the sign that you are proposing? You want the pupils of this school to have priority in bilingual classes in primary schools. This means that if a child goes to a small rural school that cannot have a bilingual class, we really close him down on bilingual education, and the introductory classes that you propose are at best a prosthetic of this solution. [[They're not.]] Why do you want a capable rural youth [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shut the road to bilingual schools? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u630	Thank you. Mr Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u631	Why are you in such a hurry with this bill? Because you are in a hurry - said your party's Member - that you want to set a trap for local governments. [[Bravo!]] You guys are shutting down schools... [[But don't yell!]] ...you eliminate middle school, you tell local governments to move their children from one school to another... [[You've eliminated 1,100 schools.]] ...you fund this mess, but in front of the mayor, the president will be a parent... [[For eight years, you've closed down 1,100 schools.]] ...and he, the mayor, will have to talk to his parent there. It is you who put local governments in a situation in which they are unable to perform this operation in a short period of time, that they are unable to consult with the parents of this operation. We have already had an example: Kraków, which was very well prepared, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Put the net on the table...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u632	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u633	...and my parents rebelled. That's the kind of trap you set up for local governments. [[Applause]] [[Don't yell!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u634	Thank you, Member. The rapporteur of the committee, Marzena Machalek, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u635	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I will answer immediately: we do not set any trap for local governments, we support local governments. I suggest you get a good look at the bill. [[Speak on behalf of the committee.]] But what you say is not true. We support local governments with this bill. [[By shutting down schools. Yes.]] Besides, I'm gonna appeal to bilingualism. We want all the kids... [[It's not us. It's the committee. You're the committee's rapporteur.]] I answer as rapporteur, which is in the bill, because I see you haven't gotten to know him very well, so I suggest you read it. Then you would say that this bill provides that there can be bilingual teaching in any school. In every school, not just in the selected schools. [[Theoretically. Theoretical state.]] And in the case of niche languages, there may be a zero class if the parents decide to do so. Just read the bill well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u636	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 167 votes against - 231, 35 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 19th amendment to the article. 139 applicants propose, inter alia, delete paragraph. 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u637	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal, I begin by asking: Is it true, Minister - I will repeat this question again - that this whole project is a trap for local governments? I was quoting you the position of the City Council of Płock adopted last week, saying that the work in Płock will lose 104 teachers and will need 2 million PLN, which you did not see in the bill, for compensation for teachers. Now you, Minister, claim there will be nine new jobs. So I'm asking you... [[But don't yell! Oh, dear.]] [[Yeah, don't yell!]] ...can you show us how you've calculated these nine new jobs for teachers, because unfortunately I don't see them at all. Is it true that local governments will have to pay for this reform? Is it true that you have not foreseen the resources for this reform in the Budget Act? Is it true that local governments are to be punished for yours? [[♪ The bell ♪]] A serious bill? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u638	Thank you. Mr Stępień, President of the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act gives priority to the access to bilingual classes of pupils from a given school, thus hindering the development of linguistic skills for gifted children. And I ask you, how are you going to support students who have the potential to develop their individual interests and talents? On behalf of parents, children, and teachers, I ask: What do you want to offer them in return? Do not destroy the Polish school, leave the Polish school alone and do not experience on our children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u640	Please. Mr Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, Minister: Is it true that under the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL policy... [[But you guys have been in charge for a year.]] ...was so conducted that 1146 schools were closed down... [[Applause]] [[You've been in charge for a year.]] ...because there was so much funding for local governments? Is it true that... [[Unless you're not in charge?]] ... 42,000. The teachers were fired? [[Shame!]] [[Their presidents shut down schools, e.g. in Radom. There's one here.]] And is it true that professional education has been destroyed in your governments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u642	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 226, with 37 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. Paragraph 184. 1 The applicant proposes that improvement centres be able to obtain accreditation confirming that the institution ensures a high quality of teacher training. The question is asked by Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment concerns Article. 184. It specifically requires non-public centres to improve teachers' accreditation, accreditation, which they must repeat periodically, for payment. At the same time, in the article. 184 reads what criteria must be met by the teacher training centre in order to maintain or obtain such accreditation. My question is: On what basis, Minister, do you think that non-public teacher training centres must meet these criteria in order to maintain the quality of teacher training and public improvement must not, because in the mouth. 2 is the provision that this provision does not apply to public teacher training centres? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u644	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u645	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Language Council, assessing the programme basis, issued a crushing opinion on the government's curriculum. It says it is, I quote: with errors, and content is obsolete, giving the reality of the Polish People's Republic, which is of course a great loss for contemporary children. I have a question: are you going to... [[But don't yell!]] ...to include also a significant position from the period of the Polish People's Republic: about two such who stole the moon? [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Yeah, yeah!]] And please join the DVD to make it easier for the kids. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u646	Member Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u647	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My name is Blazej and I was the first year of junior high school. [[Applause]] And I know how much confusion there was with the so-called. A well-prepared bill. [[We're with you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I was originally positive about the project of eliminating middle school, but as I see it, pushing my knee, without thinking about it, those unreflective laws that are really going to change the lives of students and teachers, you convinced me to be against it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[I'm seven years old.]] Because you also need to be able to eliminate, not to mention building anything by mediocre and... Do you know what it was like? I don't think it's gonna get any better. It'll be the same... [[Voice from the room: Worse!]] ...because this student really needs to feel the motivation, he needs to be encouraged and he's encouraged at home, but he has to be also by teachers, whether there's three years of junior high or eight years of elementary school, it doesn't matter. You don't change that. All you're gonna do is increase [[♪ The bell ♪]] costs. And you're picking out those young trees that today...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u648	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u649	They're blooming, and you're overreacting by 10 mm...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u650	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u651	...come on... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...so there won't be any effect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u652	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 168 votes against - 231, 33 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. The questions are raised by Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Club. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Come on, Rysiek, I'm ready!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Six kings! Six kings! Six kings!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u653	Ladies and gentlemen! You introduce this law of chaos and mess in Polish education. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're conducting an experiment on our children. Be more effective, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u654	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down and listen to the Member's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u655	Oh, and hold off on the time. [[Come on, Rysiek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u656	Calm down. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u657	Mr. Marshal... [[Time's up!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u658	I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u659	What?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u660	I'll give you more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u661	I'm gonna say it again because you can't hear me. You introduce this law of chaos and mess in Polish education. You are conducting an experiment on Polish, our children. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Richard, to middle school!]] You're throwing this whole thing on the local government. [[To school! To school!]] This reform is unprepared, uncounted [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it doesn't make any sense. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And now I have some questions for the Minister. Minister, do you hear what I'm saying or not? Because they're jamming. [[What's that even?]] Do you hear me? [[Mr. Peterovich, what are you so happy about?]] Questions for the Minister. First question. [[Game in the O.R.]] But listen... [[Sit down!]] ...listen to the question, 'cause then you won't know what you're answering. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] First question: How many teachers will you fire? [[Rubicon! Rubicon!]] How many teachers are you gonna fire? I have a request for the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u662	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u663	... Zalewska...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u664	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u665	... about a specific answer. Second question... [[To the gynecologist!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u666	Mr. Chairman... [[Game in the O.R.]] Yes, unfortunately, I have to announce a recess for the High House to calm down because I can't hear the question. [[It's not the High Chamber. It's the PiS!]] [[To the gynecologist!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: To Brussels! To Brussels! To Brussels!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u667	Are we taking a break?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u668	Yeah, take a minute. [[The gynecologist first.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But, ladies and gentlemen, all parties behave as if they did not want to hear the question in substance. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Lewandowski calls it le cabaret.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Shall we? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u669	Again with the whole thing?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u670	Yeah, one more time. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u671	Look, I've only got a series of questions for the Minister right now. First question: How many teachers will you fire? [[Mr. Marshal, why don't you influence Mr. Shieldinski?]] I have a request for a specific number. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Six, Rysiek, six!]] Two: What will you tell the children who ask what book they will learn from? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Third... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u672	Mr Tarczynski, I would like to draw your attention not to shout. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Alcomat!]] [[Art. 175 to Shieldinski!]] Continue, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u673	I would like to point out that behavior is a sign of you. And the third question is, can the Minister ever admit that he's wrong, or can he just back off in a situation where he goes through and sees that everything isn't working? If the children cry or the parents break their hands, will you ever say, "I'm sorry?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u674	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. But, ladies and gentlemen, please don't yell, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Because everyone probably wants to hear the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u675	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! You rejected our amendment guaranteeing all children a warm meal regardless of their material status. That's too bad. I understand there was a slogan before the election: we can do it, but a year after the election, there's a rule: we can't do it. [[Krystian, have a drink.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the chaos and destruction of Polish education. I hope that the President will not lay his hand on the devastation of Polish education... [[He's already signed it.]] ...that he'll understand what chaos you're up to. [[He's already signed it.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you a question. Is it true that the PiS state is trying to shed responsibility for this reform on local governments? There's no permission to do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u676	Member Tomasz Jaskoła, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u677	I'm not gonna deny myself the pleasure. Dear Marshal, Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! [[Applause]] You rejected the very good ideas of the Kukiz Club... [[Voices from the room: Ooh!....]] ... 3 years - shift of reform by 3 years. You also rejected, unfortunately... [[Referendum.]] Yes. Because it is worth asking the citizens, sir, [[Applause]] It's worth it. Are you scared? You've finally rejected your home-schooling... [[They're scared, right?]] ...and you completely crushed her here. I'm afraid education requires... [[That's not true, that's not true.]] ...competitiveness. You don't recognize this competitiveness, you don't want to deal with the Teacher's Charter, which is the main problem. That's too bad. [[What would you change?]] Among other things, sir, we have called for an art card. 30a and 30b, and they wanted to take 1,300 million teachers. [[So you don't want to change anything on the card.]] No. Come on, we're gonna change education. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the club's recommendation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kukiz: we vote against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u678	Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. [[I wonder if the votes are missing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u679	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, this reform of education concerns only, to a small extent, forms 4 + 8. It's a good thing it's coming back, but it's not a creature at all. Okay, conservative, traditional education reform should consist in eliminating the test dictatorship, restoring general education, restoring classical education, introducing an educational voucher... [[That's what we're doing.]] ...it's a traditional, right-wing postulate since the early 1990s, not to reduce, not to limit home education. Ladies and gentlemen, after 1989, the post-communist, left-wing governments were restricting domestic education and centre-right governments were expanding the scope of freedom here. You follow the post-communist path in this respect, [[Applause]] when it comes to homeschooling. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a conservative revolution, unfortunately. The question is: Why don't you take advantage of the good solutions that are [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the national website.net - str. 80 programs. There they are...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u680	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u681	... really good solutions for Polish education, not those left-wing buffoons that here... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u682	Thank you very much. Mr Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u683	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you pass this bill, it'll be the darkest day... [[Yeah, we'll vote it out.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, we vote.]] ...Polish education. [[Applause]] [[You're black.]] You're gonna destroy what we've been together, no matter which way we've been... [[Sit down!]] ...we've been building for 27 years and middle school for 17 years. I would like to remind you that Kaczyński, Mr Kaczyński, voted in favour of middle school and that you voted in Parliament in 1998. You are the first government that, instead of building in education, destroys. You've started a roller and you're driving this fight without thinking about the fate of the children. You're not interested in the opinions of scientists, parents, self-government. You're eliminating middle school, schools that gave Polish children a chance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're shortening your compulsory education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u684	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u685	You'll go into history as destroyers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u686	Mr Aleksander Forczynski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u687	You want to control the minds of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u688	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u689	We won't! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u690	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The draft Education Law will be voted out in a moment. Finis coronat opus - the end ends the work. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This project, according to many, is not a reform, but a return to the Polish school 17 years ago, a return to the normal Polish school. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Dear Members of the opposition, it is time to accept this and not repeat the same issues repeatedly on the basis of: no, because no. I am very surprised by the criticism regarding the role of curator in Polish education. 17 years ago and earlier, the supervisory authority and the supervisor were in the parole board and this was not a good solution. The role of the lead authority has been taken over by the local government, which has done well and has fulfilled this role, except by entering into the powers of the curator. [[Applause]] Hence, we make changes so that the curator at the Polish school has a suitable place to start working again... [[Is that a question? Is that a question?]] ...methodists, teacher training centers, so that there's a teacher in every school, a psychologist, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So that the parole officer can comment on what was taken from him...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u691	Thank you, sir. [[And the question?]] I didn't hear any questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u692	We're definitely leaving school bureaucratic with her tests. We return to the path of a good program based on values: God... [[The Marshal disables the microphone]] [[Voice from the room: Where's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u693	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of accepting the whole... Mr... [[Vote!]] [[Voices from the hall: Vote!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1119, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. The vote was 230 against - 199, with 5 abstentions. [[Bravo!]] [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] The Sejm passed the Law of Education. [[Applause]] [[Mr Tarczyński forgot to take the Vaseline with him.]] [[It hurts, doesn't it?]] We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft legislation introducing the Law on Education. [[Formal conclusion.]] Mr President, please don't disturb me. I've already set a break for the club. [[I'm filing a formal motion.]] I'm not announcing the other one. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1120-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u694	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present an additional report on the governmental draft law, which introduces the law on education. I would like to say that three applications have been made to reject the project in its entirety. The Commission recommends rejecting these requests. 27 amendments were tabled. The Commission recommends that five amendments be accepted and 22 rejected. On behalf of the committee, please accept the recommendation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u695	Thank you very much. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and the first request by minorities. The Commission shall request the rejection of the request made at second reading. The adoption of these proposals will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is raised by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club. [[Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u696	The rejection of this project will lead to the fact that there will be no date for the entry into force of this law, which we previously passed, so there is still a chance to remove this educational chaos, which is the destruction of education. [[Not a chance.]] I therefore appeal to you: do not destroy middle school, listen to teachers, listen to local government, listen to those who really know each other in education. [[Just like you, Madam Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u697	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u698	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Indeed, the Polish school requires changes, but it requires changes in quality, not structure, it requires changes that would make the Polish school more practical. For that, we need at least a studio. The change you are proposing is going in the opposite direction. First of all, all the programs you're proposing are archaic and theoretical. Secondly, it is easier to equip a junior high school, because there are fewer of them, there are about 7,000 of them, than dozens of elementary schools, especially very small, with dozens of students. Thirdly, we need modern programs. Because of your haste, you are proposing programs that are clearly found to be messy, inconsistent, and do not keep the correlation between the various objects. Fourthly, we need good textbooks. You can't create these textbooks at this rate. Why do you want to make such a change at such a rate? Why do you expose Polish children to quality instead of quality? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u699	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u700	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Unlike most of you, I taught in high school when junior high was releasing the first graduates. I saw the level of knowledge and skills of Polish students falling. Do you want to make this system, which led to the collapse of Polish education, continue to function? Will leaving this system mean that high school students will not be able to study in general in older classes? Do you want to make sure that the next yearbooks of Polish youth do not learn history because it is the programme changes that you have introduced that have led to? Do you think a Pole who doesn't know history will be a good patriot? We want to change that. That's why we restore general teaching, restore history teaching... [[You're shortening it.]] ...bring back patriotic teaching. We also want to avoid what you've led to, that the school has become just and exclusively [[♪ The bell ♪]] preparation for testing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u701	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u702	It's time for the student to understand what he's learning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u703	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 185 voted against - 231, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose, inter alia, that the Education Law should enter into force on 1 September 2025. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the second minority proposal. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Do you want this reform to work, which means it can be introduced without chaos, calmly? I don't agree with her fundamentally, but if you want to bring her in, bring her in calmly, without chaos. We propose that the deadline for implementing this reform be postponed to 1 September 2025. [[How much?]] Self-governments will have time to prepare primary schools for learning older students. Do not make students of Class VII and VIII learn on playgrounds, do not make these students do physical and chemical experiments on playgrounds. These schools aren't prepared for older students. If you're gonna push the little ones into middle school... [[What little ones?]] ...it also takes time to prepare these schools, to buy small chairs, to make playgrounds there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give local governments time to implement this reform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u705	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Madame, I am very sorry, but now Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u706	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of you, from Members of the Law and Justice, probably finished 8 years of elementary school. And how you behave, how you behaved during Mr. Petru's speech, is proof that you should not return to this system. You're acting like spoiled children, not like Members. [[Women's dictatorship.]] [[Voice from the room: Women's Dictatorship. Where's the marshal?]] And here's my question. Minister, a few years ago, you said something like this: what the government is changing the concept. If we do not regard Polish education as a priority, where the work is to be continued regardless of whether someone is on the one hand or on the other side of the political scene, we will never succeed. What happened to you that suddenly changed your mind about it after all these years? What happened, Minister? [[Applause]] [[Look, Rysiek's crying.]] [[He doesn't have tears.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u707	The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Marzena Machalek, would like to take the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u708	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We just passed the Education Law Act. As rapporteur for both the bill on behalf of the committee, I would like to make it clear that this first law, apart from the fact that it organizes the system and restores order in Polish education, also improves Polish education law. And this is a very important step towards repairing education law. This law we are discussing today is a law implementing this law, here are the transitional provisions. And I would like to point out that the change, the education reform is being introduced gradually, it is being introduced prudently, it is being introduced evolutionaryly, because next year it will be the first step, i.e. the lack of admission to middle school, and only in 2023 will there be the first Matura in this system. I would like to say that there are also financial resources to carry out this reform. And it's really sad that today we can say that not much more than 25% Junior high school's got the science labs. Of course, all this needs to be fixed, but I will remind you that the local authorities, that the local communities mostly decided that they wanted elementary schools with middle school, because these elementary schools with middle school are. That's why it's urgent, but it's also prudent. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's right, very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u709	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 164 voted against - 228, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 1 The applicant proposes that the Education Law should enter into force on 1 September 2022. The question is raised by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u710	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's not a sin, it's not an honorable thing for the government to withdraw from the wrong decision. [[But you are unbelievers.]] On the contrary, it is a sin and a lack of reason to continue in this wrong decision and to implement this wrong decision. Would it not be better for you to refrain from introducing this reform so abruptly by 2022, to wait a moment, to reflect, to show wisdom and discretion? [[But Monica, you already know we're gonna be in charge for so long.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Chefnacker must be terribly sad and sorry when you tell him every day how hopeless he has graduated from school, how hopelessly educated he is, how poor he was in high school. Minister, don't worry, because the opposition knows that middle school has given you a good education. There's really no reason to break, there's nothing to worry about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u711	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. The vote was 160 votes against - 230 and 33 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete the provisions concerning, inter alia, secondary schools and professional secondary education. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments 3 and 4. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] Members, because it is you that I hear first of all, do not shout.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u712	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you say you want to equalise the chances of children, but you divide our Polish children into the worse ones and the better ones. You say you want a good general education, and you introduce two types of secondary education: medium- and medium-sized education for those who cannot or will not be able to meet the requirements of secondary school. You were supposed to pull out of the industry exam, and you're putting her through the back door of the system. Why do you separate Polish children? Why do you make them choose sooner? Why do you not want to respect what we built, what we built together for 27 years in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you listen to scientists? Why don't you want to see and hear people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u713	Thank you, Member. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u714	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice, you think changing the name of a vocational school to a professional school will change anything. But on what grounds? You want to reform and modernise vocational schools so that they are more popular among young people. It's enough to get to know those schools that have already been successful, because there are schools, ladies and gentlemen, which are quite popular among young people, and what's more, 80%. their graduates have a place in the labour market. But to know why such schools exist and how successful they have been, you have to talk. You can't consult like the Minister did: you come, you talk and you go, you just have to want to. get the other side's opinion and have a dialogue with it. When will you start a real dialogue with the environment, with those who have been successful in this area? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u715	This question is actually addressed to whom? [[Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska: Madam Minister.]] Uh-huh. When you start, and so on. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u716	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Once again, we need to correct the lies that fall from this platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u717	Mr, in the form of a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u718	I suspect that the former Minister knows what's in the bill, but since he claims that it's so-called. M.A., it repeats the mistakes of a lady who is not on the education committee. Minister, are these changes that concern vocational education the result of a very broad consultation among teachers of the profession, among teachers of vocational schools, which are to eventually lead to vocational education taking up the place that it is due to take up, so that vocational schools finally release graduates who are well prepared for the profession, because such graduates today need the Polish economy? Today, employers say that there are no educated people in Poland who can perform the competition. It's time to make these changes. [[Question, man.]] It was.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u719	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 160 voted against - 229 Members, with 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 66 applicants propose, inter alia, add a point. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 300, against - 12, with 114 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicants propose an editorial and legislative amendment. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. The vote was 253 against - 16, with 150 abstentions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But I ask you, Members, not to shout, especially Mr Zaremba. [[Please do not turn off the voting device so quickly.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 the applicant proposes to delete the word "here'. The question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u720	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Mr Piontkowski, you said that you felt, on your own, how the reform of junior high schools was being carried out, that there was a gymnasium in place and that every year you saw that students were getting worse and worse. This is a really outstanding achievement that all Polish middle school students would go up in European rankings and your junior high school and your students would go down. [[Touchdown, applause]] Honestly, you ruined your school, I don't know where you came from, and then you came to the Sejm to ruin it. Here's the education. Well, congratulations. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Kinga.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Hab. Wojciech Guzicki, who is creating a programme basis for the state today, says that your reform is harmful to the Polish school and that the party business won with the state interest. You don't want to listen to the opposition, at least listen to the experts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] who work with you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u721	Thank you, Member. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u722	...and help you save the reform. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u723	I address Mr Piontkowski. Mr President, there is no ad vocem, there is no such thing. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] So if you want to enroll in the question, go ahead. [[All right, I'll speak up, then. I'll speak up.]] [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, there is no one, right?]] At this point, there's no ad vocem. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u724	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I'll talk about bilingual classes again, but not only. I would like to ask you why you do not like all those who have the chance to be outstanding. One of the major advantages of middle school is that in a larger school, which is a collective school, which should actually count about 300 students, just as Handke once planned, and maybe it was necessary to do so, it was possible to organize classes that we are not able to provide in a small number of primary schools. You could provide amateur theater, you could provide additional classes in mathematics, preparation e.g. to the Mathematical Olympics, you could provide bilingual classes, you could provide sports classes. This is not what you are able to provide in primary schools, this is what you will not give to Polish children. Really Polish middle school had a chance to be a start in the world for young people especially from rural centres. That was the purpose of the reform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you ruining this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u725	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. Only, sir, I ask a question, not polemics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u726	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't feel the middle school on my own because I didn't study in it. I taught in one of the best general schools in Poland, I worked there for over 20 years. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[It was supposed to be a question.]] I tried to pass on my experiences, not just my own, but also my colleagues. They were watching what I was watching. [[Question.]] It is high time to eliminate this system, which led to the fact that the next yearbooks of Polish youth could not get a good education. [[That's not true.]] That's why this bill is worth putting in place. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u727	Mr President, I must point out to you that you are deliberately violating the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. This is the first time I've paid your attention. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]] [[Horrible.]] [[Give him the prize.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 160, against 228, with 39 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 205. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. The question is raised by Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u728	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is certain that the reform must be delayed because you are leading to a situation where children who have completed the cycle, i.e. classes I to VI... Now you're gonna co-opt them for two more years, where there's no basis for programming. It is not even known what class I to VIII will be like, but for those special children who will have to have extended education, there are no programs in Class VII-VIII. You're leading to a situation where a person who doesn't pass high school will have to go back to elementary school, even though he has a graduation certificate. You're leading to a situation where an adult who continues to study, who wants to complement science, e.g. She'll also have to go back to elementary school at the Volunteer Labour Service. This is a situation where in 2019 there will be two years in high school and it will not be 350 thousand. children [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only 700,000. children.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u729	Thank you, Member. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u730	It's just that there's no room for students in schools. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u731	Madam, ask the question... [[Why is that all of it? What's all this for?]] ...and you didn't ask the question, you just made a statement. [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u732	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Art. 205, which is the amendment, means one thing. [[Game in the O.R.]] That after the reform, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If local authorities from the current middle schools create primary schools, they can practically move children freely from one school to another. As you led your parents to this reform, you tried to make them aware of the situation in which the child, by the end of the sixth grade, would remain in the same facility, so that he would remain with the same colleagues. but also with the same teachers. But the truth is that when new circuits and new schools are created, children who are now going to class IV will be able to be transferred to new schools. In this way, you expose children to chaos, uncertainty, that in fact most children not only in the sixth grade, but also in the classrooms. III, IV and V, she doesn't know where she's gonna be studying next year at which school. Why do you expose your children to such uncertainty? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u733	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 352, against - one, with 74 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[Impossible.]] The Sejm accepted the amendment. Those questions, actually... Who were they addressed to? In the 6th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete paragraph 208. 4 and 5. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The outcome of the adoption of the 8th amendment will be an appropriate amendment to the Article. 217. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u734	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important amendment, because it deletes these articles, where the Minister simply writes down the need to fire teachers. The principal doesn't have a choice. It says that the teacher needs to be fired. This is contrary to what the Minister says, because the Minister keeps saying that there will be no dismissal of teachers, in a few points he writes that the Director may fire the teacher, but in these points he writes that he must fire the teacher. You don't give teachers time to go from school to school, to complete their qualifications. You told the middle school teachers they weren't good enough to teach wrong because they let the alumni out... [[That's not true.]] ...who are poorly prepared for the next [[♪ The bell ♪]] period of education. Don't fire the teachers. Don't do this by law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u735	Thank you, Member. Of course, by default I understand that this is a form of question and will answer this question... [[Why, Marshal?]] The question is why. The Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska will answer this question. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And yet there was a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u736	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! That's not true. Anyone who is a regulation, in particular labour law, must complete the entire process by law. My predecessor knows these rules very well, because they are from the rules already in force. We say, we count - we work on the same system as local governments and schools - that there will be an additional 5,000. jobs, because there will be so many new branches, because the bill and the specialty, one, ladies and gentlemen... [[You're shortening your education.]] ...in addition, at the request of local governments in January, we will write a draft of such a resolution to make their work absolutely better. In this resolution, if the law is implemented, the yearbooks, I remind you: the average in primary schools is 19 people, they will move in the same composition to the next class, where the average is 23 and 25 people. You recall: Platform, opposition, PSL did not dismiss these words and accusations that in connection with the retirement of the age, with the free will of parents and the decision that a 6-year-old would study in kindergarten or school, there would be 7,000. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, There were thousands of jobs. I'm a person, I'm a minister, and we're here together to meet the demographics and take care of the Polish teacher. You haven't been able to do that in eight years. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Lying, lying, lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u737	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6 and 8 together with the consequence will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 228, with 36. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment to the article. 210 applicants propose to delete inter alia. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Two and three. Amendment 10 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are asking for their rejection. Their adoption will result in the nullity of the 4th minority proposal. The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u738	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Is it true that in the records of the article. 210 hitting local governments in Poland very painfully... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...for adapting the network of primary schools and junior high schools to the new school system will require a positive opinion of the school curator, so the local government will be responsible for the organizational and financial management of schools and the network of schools in its territory, while the curator will decide what this network will be like in practice? A really very friendly solution for local governments. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the PiS Members will support our amendment to the state budget on Friday, in which we propose 900 million PLN [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the effects of the introduction...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u739	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u740	...education reform in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u741	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u742	...or else... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...the government will pay for it, everyone will pay for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u743	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister. [[Voices from the room: Ooh.]] [[What's all this jerking off in the O.R.?]] Two years from now, you'll be history, 7.5. thousands. Gymnasiums will be eliminated by your decision. This is a score that no one in history will ever get close to again. And that, of course, is nothing... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, somebody's drinking.]] [[We'd like a breathalyzer on this side, please.]] [[Mr. Marshal, someone's drinking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u744	Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u745	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment seeks to restore at least an elementary balance between the curator and the local government responsible for all of this. I have to tell you that it might be in your interest, too, because it's hard to assume that $2.5,000. The local government will agree to the PiS dictation. I just don't believe it. And what if they don't agree? [[Shut up.]] Then we're gonna have a situation where there's not gonna be an approved new school network, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's just going to be basic schools and 2,000. Self-contained junior high school...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u746	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u747	...will not be recreated. Then it's just gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u748	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u749	...the wine country. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u750	I didn't hear the question here. [[Do you have the marshal's hearing?]] [[If they weren't, you'd have heard the marshal.]] [[Excuse me, formal motion.]] Mr Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u751	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, Minister: Are education subsidies government funds or self-government funds? And isn't there supposed to be cooperation between the supervisory authority and the executive body in the local government to develop a good education policy together? I believe in our Polish local governments and the wisdom of the mayors, who will take care of their children and communicate, will accept good decisions of the curatorium. [[Applause]] [[Faith is not enough.]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u752	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 7 and 10 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 166, against 225, with 36 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the The question is raised by Dariusz Piontkowski, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u753	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We're back to the question of the role of parole officer. Therefore, Minister, is it true that in previous years there have been situations that some local governments have eliminated all self-government schools in their territory? [[Where did the kids go? They went to school.]] Is it true that PO and PSL have introduced such changes in the education system law, which practically incapacitated the curator? Is it true what some POs said today that the curator is based in Warsaw? [[Isn't there a probation officer in Warsaw?]] Is it that the curator is in every voivodship? One of the members of the Platform talked about it. Whether, therefore, the curator's right to give an opinion to a network of schools, thus preventing, inter alia, from being able to do so. The removal of schools and the introduction of the right of trade unions to give an opinion on the school network is rather a way of moving towards parents and the community and socializing decisions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u754	Thank you. Mr Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u755	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! New school circuits are one of the elements that spends sleep with the eyes of local governments and parents. The Minister knows very well that after the reform there will be schools that will be empty, and there will be other schools that will be overcrowded, especially in those districts that are very developing today. This is the neighborhood I live in, Minister. There, children in the first grade of primary school can already walk 3 out of 5 days later than hours. 8. But that's not the worst part yet. The worst thing will be, Minister - and the question is whether you have already told your parents - that it is in these places that parents cannot be sure today that their younger children will have a place in the school where their older children attend today. Is the Minister aware of the disorganization of the family? Has the Minister herself, personally, ever been in a situation like this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally tell your parents, tell them the truth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u756	Thank you, Member. Mr Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u757	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that education subsidy is the income of local government units, is allocated from the state budget to the local government so that the local government can carry out educational tasks? I suggest that you learn a little and count. In 2007, when you set the budget, the education subsidy for local governments amounted to PLN 27 billion, and after 8 years we established the education subsidy for 2015 amounted to PLN 40 billion. [[Applause]] We raised the subsidy by PLN 12 billion. You don't raise subsidies. You tell the local government to reform for the same money and tie their hands to the local government, because the school curator's opinion is positive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as the network is concerned, it's not the government that's gonna set the network...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u758	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u759	...just an education curator. [[That's not true. That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u760	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u761	And the government will pay for it. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u762	No, no, Law and Justice have already run out of questions. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 163 against - 229, with 36. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. The formal proposal is submitted by Mr Adam Szłapka, a modern club. [[What happened to Richard?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u763	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I ask the Marshal to change the way the discussion is conducted. It is unacceptable what behaviour we have had on the part of Members of the Law and Justice, at the time when Mr Mark Owl spoke. I have not yet heard any of the opposition Members quack when they speak to the Members of the Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u764	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u765	This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u766	Mr President, this is not a formal conclusion from you, so that... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[There he is!]] We are not in the middle of a discussion, we are in the middle of a vote, and the formal proposal concerns a discussion... [[But did you enjoy this behavior?]] ...changes in the way the discussion is conducted. So we're not at that point, I'm paying your attention. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 217. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The questions are raised by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u767	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! During today's deliberations, the mayor Błaszek, a member of the PiS, who was expelled recently, wrote to me because he wanted to rationalise the school network in his community. [[Eliminate, eliminate.]] He had five schools, the smallest of which currently consists of 16 students. Therefore, he was in no way able to sustain it with the subsidies that he received from the Ministry. Now you are condemning a similar situation to most municipalities. He writes one more thing: now he's gonna have to close down the state-of-the-art school in his community, he's gonna have to close down the middle school. He cannot eliminate those schools because the parole board disagrees, and therefore he has to close down the only school in which he can do so without the parole officer's consent, simply on the basis of the act of this law. That's exactly how this bill works with local governments. They become hostages of this bill and hostages of the curatoria... [[Don't you get the feeling no one's listening to you?]] ...because the only thing they can do is either agree to a network of schools that will be too expensive for them, because it will force them to turn all junior high into primary school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or they could take out all the middle school, risking themselves...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u768	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u769	...to liquidate modern schools, return European funds...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u770	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u771	...and firing teachers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u772	The Minister of National Education, Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u773	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Educational law and regulations are designed so that such situations do not occur. [[It's a lie.]] Namely, the specialty does not assume the possibility of eliminating anything. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u774	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 166, against - 224, with 36. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 10th amendment has been considered. In the 11th amendment to the article. 220 applicants propose to delete point 4. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club. [[Look how quiet it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u775	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this amendment submitted by the Platform Club, it is proposed to remove the State interference not only in the local government, but also in the way the school director is supposed to behave. [[Self-government is a country, too.]] It's far-reaching to say interference throughout the process. How are you gonna enforce that? Is it like in the course of today's session of the City Council of Krakow, when your curator, Małopolska school curator, came and was appalled that school heads and parents appeared in the hall? How is it possible that someone invites their parents to the education session and invites school heads? [[Applause]] How do you want to conduct a dialogue? [[Scandal.]] Minister, how did you conduct these meetings, these consultations? [[What kind of dialogue?]] I think it's all in my own pen company. How are you going to face directly in spring next year... [[It's like the rectory of Walking.]] ...in 2,000. local authorities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where there will be conflicts, because it is nothing to carry out by the Sejm, but to face up and establish a network of schools in the municipalities, that is the problem. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u776	Thank you, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 168 voted against - 229, 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 222. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 166 voted against - 228, 34 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. 7 (1) applicants propose that the duration of the stay of the teacher in an inactive state should be 12 months. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u777	Mr. Marshal! [[Mickey Mouse showed up.]] High Izbo! Minister! Serious estimates say that the PiS intends to throw away this deformity of education of 30,000. experienced teachers. Could the Minister of Education respond to parents, children, teachers, how many thousands of experienced teachers will lose their jobs as a result of this deformity of education? What are the estimates of the Ministry and its sources in this regard? Just, Minister, really stop lying and don't talk about the fact that no one's gonna lose their jobs because no one's gonna believe it. Thousands of middle school teachers have shaped their professional path based on the fact that it's going to be middle school, doing post-graduate studies. But one of the objectives of this reform is also the possibility of changing the basis of the programme. And finally, because the heroes for the freedom of the PiS have recently made communist prosecutors...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u778	Member, we are at the 13th amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u779	...and true legends embody from resolutions and history, I would like to ask if this drawing of Jack Fedorowicz at the PiS school will be like the communes again...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u780	Madam President, I would like to point out that you are currently interfering with the Sejm's deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u781	...called the portrait of an unknown man with a mustache? [[Applause]] [[Well, well, well.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u782	We're at the 13th Amendment. Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Please read the amendment, it concerned...]] [[Now it's gonna be a firecracker. Cowboy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u783	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Polish People's Party on behalf of the Polish Teachers' Association has tabled an amendment, an important amendment which sets out a 12-month inactive period so that the teacher can exercise his right to return to work during the period of the service movement. During this period, the teacher will retain the right to pay for longer than at present and, most importantly, will have a chance to return to work. Please support this amendment on behalf of thousands of teachers. And the question, Mr. Marshal, will you give these teachers a chance? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u784	Eh. Mr Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u785	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are the first teacher of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the O.R. The last one.]] Why do you allow Members of your party to speak so badly about Polish teachers? Why do you scare Polish students with Polish school? Why are you so misjudged by junior high? Minister, students had to come today, middle school graduates, to explain to you that middle school is good. Why are you acting like this to your students and teachers? And last but not least, why don't you agree to leave the teachers closed for 12 months? Is it long enough to give them a chance to get back to work? Why are you destroying Polish education? [[Applause]] [[What have you done?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u786	Member Paweł Lisiecki, Law and Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u787	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We just had an example of how we are accused of destroying education, why we don't like children, why we don't like their parents. In 2015, during the election campaign, we clearly declared the liquidation of the system in which the secondary schools are located. Meanwhile, the Law and Justice wins among those who have been blessed with the benefits of middle school and their parents. We don't just like these people, we respect them. And that's why we're doing what we promised in the election campaign. Minister, what's it like, if there's the same subsidy, as many children, then suddenly the opposition comes out that thousands of teachers will be fired because there's no money left? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is what you need to know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u788	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 166 voted against - 234, 26 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 232 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is raised by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. [[Oh, Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u789	Ladies and gentlemen! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 232 you admit that non-teaching school workers will lose their jobs. You admit it honestly, it's such an elementary reaction of honesty towards this group of people. We in the amendment propose that this departure be carried out on the basis of group redundancies, i.e. in a way that improves the situation of these people. Why won't you agree to that? By the way, it is very interesting - the staff is to decrease, but the schools are not to decrease and the teachers are to stay. How is that possible? Miracles, miracles announce. [[Applause]] [[This is the season.]] [[Write such a nice speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u790	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 165 votes against - 225, 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In amendments 15 to 18, applicants propose to delete the provisions relating to termination of employment with teachers who are not qualified to take up a teaching position at a specific school. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club. [[Look, I deciphered them, they're trying to put us to sleep.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u791	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is the Minister lying? [[At night.]] After all, he tells the public that teachers will not be fired, and here in four articles he says that the director is obliged to fire the teacher in these changes. How will you look into the eyes of Polish teachers? Why are you lying like that? Why do you want teachers to lose their jobs as a result of your reform? Why are you kidding Polish teachers? You have to learn, Minister, count. Really, if you're losing school, you're not strong enough, you're losing jobs and you're firing teachers. If you do not want to fire them, vote in favour of this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u792	Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u793	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! You say a lot that there will be no dismissal of teachers, that children in the system are not getting any worse. But note one thing - or it will be at the expense of the finances of local governments, when they will create a network of schools that will actually consist of a lot of small schools, or it will be at the expense of teachers. Let us remember one thing - in the case of this reform no one was given time to retrain, no one was given time to find a better job, no one was given time for anything, because you are introducing a reform at a crazy pace. In addition, teachers who have so far taught nature and sometimes had a full-time job in one school will at the moment be sentenced to wandering from school to school. Chemistry, if there is a school that has one level, will be probably 4 hours in one school, if it has one branch on each level, similarly physics, geography and biology little more. This means that schools will have tutors wandering around who will not be associated with any of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a facility. This is what you sentence Polish teachers to. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u794	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u795	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the current provisions of the Education Act provide that a teacher who is not qualified to work at a given school cannot work at that school? And in this connection, is the recording of this article that we are talking about at the moment a simple transfer of this recording... [[No.]] ...from the Act on the Education System to transitional regulations... [[It's not.]] ... Education law? [[Applause]] [[It's not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u796	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 15 to 18 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 169 voted against - 228, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 19th amendment to the article. 257 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u797	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the meeting of the local government committee, the Deputy Minister of State of the Government stated that there could be cases of failure to preserve the sustainability of projects co-financed by EU funds, consisting in the creation of educational infrastructure or equipment. Our amendment aims to ensure that the financial responsibility for such cases takes over the state budget through the Minister of Education. So the question is this: If there can be such cases, if you said that the reform would not cost local governments, why is this unwillingness to accept responsibility, or perhaps fear of accepting responsibility for these consequences? We should be honest and honest to the end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u798	Thank you. Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, Mr Law and Justice... excuse me, the modern club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Never in life! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[It's a cool-down break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u799	I'm definitely straightening out - modern. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! We already know that this whole reform is a form of self-government trap, that it means for them either very high costs of a fragmented school network, or the liquidation of facilities such as middle school. If they choose the latter option, i.e. if they decide that they do not have enough children to create additional primary schools in the current secondary schools, then if they have so far used European funds, they are doomed to two scenarios - either they are forced to create a primary school there, where they do not have children and, consequently, subsidies, or after the liquidation of this school, they will be sentenced to returning European funds. The state wants to do all this reform at the expense of local governments. The state assumes that this is a cost-free reform, because all costs are to be borne by local governments. Why do you think local governments are responsible for your decisions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u800	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 163 votes against - 226 and 36 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the amendments from 20th to 22nd, applicants propose different dates for the entry into force of the new basics of general education for certain types of schools. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. The question is asked by Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u801	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why does the Minister of Education allow the current fourth, fifth, sixth graders to leave primary school with lacks? She admitted it on the committee and the Minister and the Deputy Minister. Now, students of classes IV, V and VI are going on an old basis and are going to learn according to the new basis, so that they will not pursue certain subjects, they will not pursue the entire programme base. I propose for the sake of these children, Minister, to leave them an old program basis. When it comes to years, that's right, and parents really won't worry about their kids, they'll worry less if they do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Knowing that children...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u802	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u803	They're not gonna graduate from primary school with lacks. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u804	Mr Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u805	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! This reform of education has many flaws, but I think the biggest drawback is that you're introducing it for a yearbook, which is now in the sixth grade. In this way you cause a jump for children who are in classes IV, V and VI, to new software bases with gaps. For me, the even bigger problem is that you want to give the next year's yearbook the basics of the program, which are usually miswritten and archaic in the world. We have many experts' opinions at the moment, e.g. Professor Turski on physics, who says that the software base is poorly organized and that there is no consistency with the mathematical basis, that it contains a concept of function at a time when there will be no function for mathematics. We have the opinion of the Polish Language Council, which says that the programming basis is inconsistent, messy and archaic. The word "scansen" appears. We have an opinion of biologists who claim that Darwinism is lacking there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, why do you want to convict Polish children...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u806	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u807	...for this kind of programming basis? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u808	Mr Anna Krupka, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u809	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hear in this room a desperate, aggressive defense of a system that didn't work. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[What do you mean it didn't work? He did a good job.]] Your longtime leader Donald Tusk used to say it's better to be a welder than a politician. And, of course, as usual, he was missing the truth... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: The welders have a job.]] ...because according to report NIK as much as 40% students after vocational schools end up unemployed and at the same time... [[What are these statistics?]] ... 75% entrepreneurs have a problem with good professionals. This is the result of research by the Polish Agency for Enterprise Development. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] You've led to a collapse in vocational education. Hence my question: Will the industry schools introduced by this law be shaped in professions tailored to the labour market? Will employers be involved in shaping the programme basis? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u810	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from the 20th to the 22nd will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 161 voted against - 229, with 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 286. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 162 voted against - 229, 35 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The applicant proposes to add point 4. The question is raised by Katarzyna Lubnauer, a modern club. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u811	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! In our amendment, we propose that the next yearbooks - those children who are currently in classes IV, V and VI - also have an exam in the eighth grade in nature or history, only that it does not count when recruiting for secondary school. You simply admit that these yearbooks will not have an eighth grade exam in these subjects, because they will not be prepared for it, because there will be gaps in their education, because the programming bases for classes VII and VIII do not in any way correlate with those classes they had in classes IV, V and VI. The state is fully aware that we will have three yearbooks that will be wasted because they will have educational shortages. We don't agree to that. We think that at least this natural exam should be to force teachers to try to fill in these gaps so that these children aren't some kind of lost generation. That's why we're asking [[♪ The bell ♪]] to support our amendment. [[Applause]] [[No way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u812	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 167 against - 224, with 34 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 24th amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 2 314 and the relevant amendments to Article 314. 369. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 229, against 165, 35 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 365a. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u813	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment refers to artistic education. This is an amendment that allows the Minister of Culture to emerge with honor from what has happened. Well, parents who sent their children to a general artistic school sent them to the first degree of six years. If the child didn't want to continue this study, then after sixth grade he went to general secondary school and everything was okay. Unfortunately, this is no longer possible today because all other children, their peers, are moving to Class VII. So what does a parent have to do with a child who doesn't want to continue his second degree and wants to go to middle school? There's nowhere, there's just nowhere. This amendment makes it possible for children in artistic schools to complete 2 years of general education. [[But you're not.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm not asking you a question because whether we ask these questions or not, the Minister doesn't answer them at all. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Then why are you asking?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u814	Some, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister's questions are answered and many questions that are not questions cannot be answered. Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński will answer the question. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[You got what you wanted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u815	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The case is clear, just go to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, where you can read how this case is clarified and solved. First of all, I would like to assure all parents of children who go to a general music school in the first degree, that they will have the opportunity to continue their general education, including musical education, in the seventh and eighth grade. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[What if they don't want to?]] And it will be resolved as we have announced and announced. [[How's that?]] You know this very well, but you pretend you don't know it. By means of a regulation... [[There's no one who doesn't. In the PiS country, you can't not want to.]] ...because it is the Minister of Culture and National Heritage who issues the school type regulation. In this sense, a regulation will be issued on a general first-level music school, a school with an 8-year cycle of education, and it will also be possible to distinguish between general artistic schools. So there won't be a problem here. I would like to inform people who are not aware that this concerns 47 schools in Poland. [[This is very important.]] These 47 schools in Poland are over 1400 students. [[But especially talented.]] My parents were worried, and we agreed that this had to be solved. in an extraordinary way, because... [[The president's sister took care of it.]] ...this way... Member, as we both say... [[Well, it is.]] ...we won't hear from you and there won't be communication. And that's not the problem that should be some kind of political problem between us. It's about a solution that's good for everyone. What does it say? It follows that the specific nature of artistic training requires other types of school. [[That's not true.]] In music schools we maintain a system of six, six, because this is what the methodology and pedagogy of learning music requires. [[Absolutely not.]] Therefore, in order not to complicate the situation, we do not cause the situation that children would go to regional elementary school after the sixth grade, i.e. to change their environment, in these 47 schools in Poland we provide continuity of general education, also musical education. [[That's bullshit.]] Whoever wants to go to the second degree takes the exam. Whoever wants to go to second degree after six classes will also be able to take the exam. [[That's bullshit.]] Those in the first case of the third grade exam and in the first case directly to the second degree of music. [[How?]] This is a compromise solution. Of course, this requires the creation of these VII, VIII classes in general music education in the first degree. [[And there's money in the budget?]] It's a little complicated, but I assure you, all those who are interested know what I'm talking about. [[You've been misled.]] There will be no forcing children to go to other schools after the sixth grade. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And who doesn't like it, it's for territorial protection. There's room for everyone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u816	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 143, against 227, with 55 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment to the article. The applicant shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation and to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 27th amendment. The question is raised by Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u817	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I hope that these assurances will not disappear from the website of the Ministry of Culture, as will the statements of you and our colleagues on TVP. On the other hand, when it comes to the amendment itself, the deadline for introducing the law is simply a deformity of education in the world. [[Anything out of mind?]] You're doing this to completely destroy local governments. There's already been a few approaches. It began with the fact that President Kaczyński, unable to accept losing in the local elections, said that they were faked. [[Jesus.]] Then you came up with a concept... [[Not about that.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, microphone.]] ...a division of voivodships to conduct an early election. Then you took the local government's powers with every next bill, then you put the CBA in the local government, and now...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u818	But, Commissioner, please refer to the amendment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u819	...and now you want to deny the idea of self-government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u820	...not talk about it in general.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u821	Those PiS heads thought they were gonna blame... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u822	Madam, I draw your attention and recall, as announced earlier... [[Why?]] ...that you are disturbing the Sejm's deliberations at the moment. This is the second time I've warned you, because I've warned you before... [[We're gonna lay down this punishment.]] ...so one more warning and there will be a monetary penalty. [[$5,000!]] [[You're out of line, Marshal.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 190 votes against - 229 and 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment to Article. 369 applicants propose an amendment to point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 241, against 129, with 60 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. He is asking questions from Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u823	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! In these two laws, you destroy middle school - middle school, which was the only place to equalize opportunities. You're destroying middle school that was a window to the world for rural youth. [[That's not true!]] Instead of adapting your plan to the welfare of children and their plans for the future to their electoral plans, you adapt your plan to the electoral plans of Law and Justice. In this situation, there is only one thing left: we appeal to President Andrzej Duda. You can still save the remnants of his authority and authority of his function. Sometimes it is enough not to submit all signatures, not to sign at the rate at which he does so so far, just to think about what is good for Polish children, just not to sign under this law. This is the right time to make that decision. We appeal to President Andrzej Duda not to sign the Law of Education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u824	This is, of course, an appeal, not a question, Madame. [[You should've turned the mic off!]] Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u825	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Kukiz Club15 has been with local government since the beginning. I had the privilege of applying for a public hearing on the initiative of local government officials - you rejected. In the work of the subcommittee, we accepted the proposals of local governments - you rejected them. When last Monday local government corporations did a public, social hearing, there was neither the minister, nor the politicians of PiS, nor the politicians of PO, was Kukiz15. The reform, ladies and gentlemen, has draft laws today, there is only one small problem - there are no implementing acts. [[They're ……]] In this Chamber, everything can be voted out, but voting out does not mean one thing - that this reform is well prepared. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u826	Thank you very much, sir. You made a very interesting statement, but no questions asked. Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are in the middle of asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u827	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am sorry, Mr Marshal, to state this, but with Amendment 26 you did not allow Mr Krzysztof Paszyk and Mr Michał Stasiński to speak at the PSL amendment. I'm so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen! You didn't listen to anyone: children, teachers, parents, self-government, the social side. He's deaf to arguments. Consultations that weren't there. I'm sorry, Minister. It is a pity that you have not taken up the challenge of organising the public hearing requested by PSL. You denied our motion. You take, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, full responsibility for this reform. It's not gonna be the government's fault that you've made a mess and chaos. It's gonna be your fault. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But he did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u828	Mr Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, has the floor. Let me remind you, Madame, that we are in the middle of asking questions. [[You keep reminding me of that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u829	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government. Why do you want to reform unprepared? I know you don't listen to local governments, you don't listen to teachers, you don't listen to scientists, you don't listen to people, but at least listen to polls? Prognosis... The acceptance for the liquidation of junior high schools has fallen dramatically and has contributed mainly to this by Minister Zalewska, preparing a chaotic reform. Today under 40% voters - also in your electorate this support fell - only below 40% voters... [[Citizens.]] [[But it's news.]] ...is behind this reform, so there are more who oppose it. Remember that like self-government [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're gonna show the net... [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u830	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u831	...this support will fall dramatically. Your parents will turn on you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u832	Mr Dariusz Piontkowski has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u833	You're flying like a moth to a fire. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You'll pay for it, you'll pay for it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u834	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u835	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Is it true that it is these laws that give the opportunity to create a programme basis that will allow students to develop more widely? [[That's not true.]] Is it true that these laws will restore the proper role of vocational education and that some of the students will give a chance to get a M.A.? [[Parts.]] Will these laws allow for flexible implementation of the provisions of the law, among others. for combining several buildings, for the transfer of pupils, classes, but also for training young people of the chosen age, suitable for particular disciplines? [[Do you believe what you're saying?]] And the question at the end: Is not elementary decency to say that what the Members of the opposition say about the fact that there are records in the bill about the division of Poles, about the dislike of disciples, about the dislike of parents, is merely an attempt to forge reality and a rude lie? [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] [[As Comrade Wiesław said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u836	Thank you. Ms Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education, will speak at the moment. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u837	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A moment ago, the most dramatic, but defining education system, was the voice of one of the messengers: only middle school equals educational opportunities. Where's four-year-old high school? Where's the M.A.? Where's the unprepared for testing? Where is general education? Where's the vocational school? Where is the chance for employers and employees? Where is the improvement of the systems and the possibility for a student in a vocational school not only to get a job and a qualification, but also a sentence of the Matura? [[It's all after junior high.]] Where's primary school at last? Have you heard in this debate: unnecessary, bad investment, backwards? What have you been doing for the last eight years? [[Voice from the room: Nothing.]] [[Mr. Marshal, take a break because the Minister is weak.]] But I want you, to those who think junior high is equalizing educational opportunities, to quote the international research of the Educational Research Institute. Among other things, Zbigniew Sawiński makes it clear: PISA's results from the 2000-2012 years do not give any reason to believe that the secondary reform has contributed to reducing social inequalities in Polish education. Dozens of times I quoted the opinions of researchers of the Institute of Educational Research, dozens of times I referred to international research from 2012, which said that actually Polish youth plays well, but cannot cooperate, cannot apply a mathematical formula, recreates knowledge. Few of this, from these studies it was clear that the Polish student is one of the last in terms of his attitude towards the Polish school... [[Why are you lying?]] ...that the teacher, although most educated in Europe, is not satisfied. At the same time, you are empathizing with 2015 research. They were actually presented in a specific way, e.g. Europe has been isolated, which has fallen sharply in world rankings. [[Mr. President, this is a polarized diffusion project.]] I just want to give you two pieces of information. Namely, when we talk about the difference in students' performance in measuring reasoning in natural sciences, between the 2015 and 2006 and 2012, here is the following information from this study: For OECD countries, the average score fell by 8 points and this was a statistically significant change. Indeed, 8 countries have improved their performance, but as many as 24 countries have deteriorated. The leader of the inheritance was Turkey: -38 points. Very big change was recorded in Poland: -24 points. [[Over 500 points.]] [[Only now will there be an inheritance.]] This is an assessment of the programming bases introduced by the government. In terms of student preferences, how students respond to the profession they want to do at the age of 30, the percentage of pupils pointing to the professions of science decreased from around 26% in 2006 up to 21%. There has been an increase in the percentage indicative of the medical professions, but the percentage of students indicating the IT professions has decreased, attention has been given from 6% to 1%. Other professions related to science: from 6% to 1%. This is the definition of nature that was invented for international research. [[What year is it?]] You're also talking about the rectors. Read all the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber that define the system that you have created. Among other things, there are clear statements of the rectors who evaluate the education system. As many as 26 of the 37 asked are negative. You're talking about the basics of the program. Together with the publishing houses, we have established the rhythm of these software bases. You know very well that there are many opinions, many experts. I would remind you that there was a list of scientists saying that 350 million spent on research should be hidden in the basement and not learned from them because they did not want to draw these conclusions. We pull out because they clearly indicate the direction of action. But as many as 200 professors said that they fully accept this change and this course of action. I just want to add two more points. The number of hours in the system is increased by 105, teachers' redundancies are not foreseen as a result of this reform, and local government officials are supported for the first time so clearly before the introduction of the Education Law. We've been with them for months. Together with them, we determine which solutions will be the most flexible so that the student does not notice this change. We reduce circuits, we reduce class numbers. We're gonna put an extra weight on one shift. We are one of the few countries in the world that has two changes. And finally, money, ladies and gentlemen. In every city where we are, big and small, we count and we have the same numbers as every city and every municipality. Because I remind you that every director, every department provides us with data. We're showing extra money. And let's remind you: 1.5 billion per 6-year-old is in education subsidies for the first time, 418 million for valorization, which has appeared... [[Absolute nonsense.]] ...for the first time in many years, 900 million directly into additional branches and equipment, 168 million from the budget reserve and a serious conversation in a team that consists of self-government... [[It doesn't get a little tense.]] ...and trade unions to improve the quality of education, care for the Polish teacher. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's pass this bill... [[No way.]] ...and let's be together with local government officials to support them in their transformations. [[Be there, be there.]] Thank you so much for your work. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bad change! That's a bad change! That's a bad change!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u838	Thank you. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in its entirety in print No 1120, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. The vote was 229, against - 199, with five Members holding back. I state that the Sejm has passed the Law of Laws introducing the Law of Education. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]] [[As always, in the middle of the night.]] We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government bill on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Break!]] The additional committee report shall be in print No 1114-A. We proceed to the third reading. [[Marshal, can we take a five-minute break?]] I ask Mrs Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u839	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Joint Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland was recommended. Five amendments were tabled at the second reading of the draft law on 13 December 2016. The committees recommend adopting 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th amendments and rejecting 4. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u840	Please. The committees present in the additional report a motion for rejection and amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The committees are requesting that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u841	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every organization is witnessed by people. Hence the question to the Prime Minister: On what employees, on what staff does the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland intend to base his activities? Certainly not for those who have been working in the prosecutor's office since 1 January 2006, because the current law on such work for these workers does not guarantee those employed there. It would seem that this is about a model of employment in the D.A. in the interwar period. Hence my question at first reading to the Prime Minister. Of course, the answer was as usual. The reading of the current text of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland proves that the writing of this law was accompanied by longing for completely different times. What does that say? Above all, a 68 - page article shows this. What is decided in this article? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Namely, that the working time of the district attorney is the working time of the Polish Workers' Party, 1948. [[Time's up!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u842	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u843	So will the D.A. work for the grads... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u844	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 158 voted against - 239, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Mr. Marshal, take 10 minutes.]] In the 1st amendment to the Law on the limitation of the conduct of business by persons performing public functions, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. Point 3a and Article 2. Article 6 (6) (a) 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 398 Members voted. 234 votes against - 161, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. [[It's not working.]] [[It's not working.]] [[The razor didn't work.]] Something's not working? In the second amendment to the article. 123 of the draft law propose to add paragraph 1. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 405 Members voted. 246 voted against - 157, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. Paragraph 125. 2 of the draft law, the applicant shall propose to replace the words with the principles laid down in the law referred to in Article. 134 and the principles of the existing rules. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 414 Members voted. 249 voted against - 164, 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law shall be proposed by the applicant in paragraph 128. 3 after the words "they shall remain unchanged" delete the words "subject to paragraph." and delete paragraph 5. 5. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u845	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! In most of the laws proposed by the Law and Justice concerning the reform of administration, companies of the Treasury or government agencies, we find staff regulations. Unfortunately, we also find them in this very important law, which concerns an organ which is fundamental to the protection of the State Treasury's property interests. For the proper functioning of this body, the most important are people, because they decide on the proper execution of the tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. I have a question: What is the reason why all the D.A.'s employees will receive new contracts with new working conditions and wages? To prove it doesn't have to be like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - the President of the Prosecutor's Office, the Vice-Presidents appointed by the Law and Justice will not receive such new conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u846	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Unless Minister Wild wants to answer. [[Voices from the hall: No!...]] There's no need. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 62 voted against - 356, with two abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 135 of the draft law, the applicants propose to replace words that enter into force 6 months after the date of publication by words that enter into force on 1 July 2017. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 256 voted against - 165, 2 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.114, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 240 votes against 168 and 16 Members abstained. The Sejm passed the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law on the rules for the management of state property. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1103-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present this report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u847	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Energy and the Treasury at its meeting today considered the proposed amendments. The Commission recommends rejecting the proposal to reject the draft law, to accept Amendments 1, 2 and 3, to reject Amendment 4, to accept Amendments 5 and 6, to reject Amendment 7. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u848	Thank you, sir. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Let me remind you: the committee requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Go ahead!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 199 voted against - 224, 1 member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. Paragraph 7 1 of the draft law propose to add a point. Amendments 2 and 3 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments from 1 to 3 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 249 votes against - 160, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the draft law of the applicant proposes an amendment concerning the request for an opinion on the candidates for membership of the management bodies. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u849	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The essence of the amendment is the introduction of an obligation for the Company Board to evaluate candidates to the governing bodies of state legal persons and companies of the Treasury. This law is limited to supervisory authorities only. We see no reason why managers of the Treasury companies should not be included in this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u850	That's the question to whom? [[The minister's office.]] No, no, we can't wave our hand, we can say yes, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Is it true?]] Oh, is it true? [[You can't talk, you can't wave your hand, what else?]] We're voting because I don't understand the question. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 81 votes against and 340 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 5 and 6 to Article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 The 29th draft law of the applicant proposes, inter alia, that all members of the Board appoint and dismiss the President of the Council of Ministers. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 7 irrelevant. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u851	Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The essence of this amendment is how to appoint, in principle, the composition of the Company Council. I would like to remind you that the Board has a special task of evaluating candidates for supervisory authorities and also optionally for management bodies of companies of the Treasury. It was supposed to be a very important body, an organ, which was supposed to serve the professionalization of companies of the State Treasury. Unfortunately, however, it will remain a political body because it will be set up by politics. We propose a completely different, different system of composition of this body so that the economic ministers decide this, but also representatives of employers and local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u852	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 6, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 232 voted against - 192 and 1 member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendment 7 is therefore without object. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. And here are the Members with questions. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u853	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Because it's late, I'm not gonna ask you a question. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u854	Thank you, sir. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform, has the floor. You're like that, aren't you? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Are you asking me if you're asking questions? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u855	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Do not delay.]] Mr. Marshal! Very briefly. This is a bad bill, all the opposition clubs have requested that the project be rejected at first reading, we have duplicated the request at second reading. Prime Minister, I'll give you two sizes. Year 20132015 total growth shares with influences from dividends and privatisations of companies listed on the Stock Exchange - 27%... [[It was supposed to be short.]] ...the last 15 months - a 33% decrease WIG30, or the 15 largest companies of the State Treasury. In this way, values are not built up, in this way, as you have repeatedly said, they do not effectively care about national silver. With these records, you preserve bad management and bad supervision, which results in such results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In the restaurant Owl and Friends showed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u856	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u857	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Very briefly, because it's actually late. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I have a question for the applicants. Do you realize that this law, the Human Resources Act, because that should be its actual name, causes a kind of classified privatisation of public assets... [[And under the cover of the night.]] ...that public wealth will be ruled by one particular party? Right now, this party, and in a few years, probably another particular party, it won't be a public property. Public property should work for the public good, and in this way it will work for the party good, and that is not good. Vote against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u858	Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski will speak at the moment. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voices from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u859	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the issue of the value of companies. Well, Mr President, the Minister is very falsely interpreting the value of companies, because we have decided that instead of PLN 4 billion, only 1 billion dividends will be paid. For this reason, some became disappointed because they were probably promised, and they started selling stock. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: No, really.]] But the value of companies increased by PLN 3 billion... [[Economics.]] ...because we didn't get that money out of these companies. [[You're gonna pay taxes.]] These companies are richer, they can now make investments that you didn't allow. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're lying to reality, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u860	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1103, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 229, against - 200, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law on state property management rules. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law Rules introducing a law on the rules for the management of state property. The additional committee report shall be in print 1104-A. We proceed to the third reading. Wojciech Zubowski has the floor to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u861	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Energy and Treasury Commission at its meeting yesterday considered the proposed amendments. The Commission recommends rejecting the proposal to reject the draft law and adopting all amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u862	All the corrections. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission, I remind you, requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[You can still think about it.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 201 against 229, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the 1st amendment, the applicant proposes to add a new provision to the State Treasury Real Estate Management Act. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote for them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 234 voted against - 123, 71 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 38d paragraph. 1 and 4 of the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act propose, among others, to identify entities entitled to exercise rights from shares belonging to the State Treasury. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 341, against - 10, with 74 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 12a paragraph. 3 The Energy Law of the applicant proposes to amend the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. It voted 257 against - 119, with 45 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 19 The Banking Law of the applicant proposes an amendment concerning the granting of the statutes to a State bank. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 5 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 228 voted against - 139, with 50 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 44 The Bank Law of the applicant proposes that the competence referred to in the provision should be exercised by the President of the Council of Ministers, bearing in mind the need to protect the interests of the Treasury. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 223, against 141, with 54 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 6a of the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions, the applicants propose an amendment to the income of the Labour Fund. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 226 against - 150, with 52 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to delete point 4 of Article in the Railway Fund Act. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and point 3 of Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 228 voted against - 122, 76 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the Road Special Purpose Companies Act, applicants propose to delete the third sentence in Article. 3 (1) (a) 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. The vote was 226 against - 121, with 78 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining, the applicant proposes an amendment concerning the acquisition of shares of the Coal Company SA free of charge. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. The vote was 418 against - 1, 10 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 and 6 of the Act on the rules for the acquisition of shares from the State Treasury in the process of consolidation of the electricity sector companies, the applicant proposes to amend the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 11 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 363 against - 7, with 58 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Act on the rules for the acquisition of shares from the State Treasury in the process of consolidation of electricity sector companies is proposed by the applicant to amend the authorising provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 230 against 148 and 49 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 13th amendment to the article. 19c paragraph. Point 1 of the Act on the recapitalisation of certain institutions and on government financial stabilisation instruments propose to delete the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 227 voted against - 145, 53 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 63. 3 of the Military Property Agency Act, the applicants propose to change the subject matter of the reference. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 243 votes against - 148 and 36 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 3 The Law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies of applicants proposes to amend the authorising provision. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. The vote was 230 votes against - 149 and 52 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 117 of the draft law, the applicant proposes to amend the transitional provision. Amendment 17 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 16 and 17 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. The vote was 230 against 164 and 36 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1104, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 230 voted against - 196, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed the Law of Laws introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of draft Law No 1111. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1111, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 405 Members voted against - 13, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Prison Service modernisation programme in the years 2017-2020. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1112. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 1112, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 423 Members voted against - 8, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the Prison Service Modernization Programme in 2017-2020. We are returning to the review of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire Guard and Government Protection Office in the years 2017-2020. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1089. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1089 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law establishing the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in 2017-2020. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We return to the examination of item 23. of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Accounting Act. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1086. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1086, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. The vote was 427 against - 1, no one abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Accounting Act. [[What about middle school?]] We are returning to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 1113. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1113, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 418 voted against - 6, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, [[AGN]] prepared in Geneva on 19 January 1996 We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 1015 without amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1015 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously adopted the Act on the ratification of the European Agreement on major inland waterways of international importance, [[AGN]] prepared in Geneva on 19 January 1996 We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Criminal Enforcement Code. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1074. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1074, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 421 voted, no one voted against, 1 member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Penal Code Act. We would like to return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft Print Act No. 1013. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1013, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm passed a law amending the Public Road Act and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Election of the Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints 1046 and 1135). [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] On the basis of the article. Paragraph 194. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and paragraph 1. Point 3 (1) in conjunction with Article. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, a group of Members has nominated Mr Michał Warciński as Judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Bravo.]] Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present Mr Michał Warciński's candidacy. [[Come on, let's go, let's not listen to him.]] [[Aren't you ashamed?]] [[Part of the Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform leaves the room]] [[You may not come back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u863	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! It has been my honor to present the High House with a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[That's embarrassing!]] This candidate is Professor Dr. Hab. Michał Warciński was born in 1979 in Pisz. [[Did he convict anyone in martial law, too?]] He graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw, which graduated with honours. He's also a graduate of Canon Law... [[Scandal! Scandal!]] ... Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University, who graduated with very good results... [[Some minimum decency, really.]] ...and graduated from the Historical Faculty of the University of Warsaw, which graduated with very good results. Since 2003, he has been a PhD student at the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Warsaw. He obtained his PhD in law on the basis of a hearing in the field of civil law, namely contract law, in 2006 in accordance with a unanimous resolution of the Scientific Council of the Institute of Civil Law Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. Between 2006 and 2014, an assistant professor at the Justice Institute. Between 2006 and 2016, an assistant and then a case-law specialist in the Supreme Court, in the Civil Chamber. Between 2008 and 2009 adiunct at the Centre for Studies of Local Government and Local Development of the University of Warsaw. Since 2009, an assistant at the Institute of Civil Law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. In 2015 he defended with honors... [[Shame and shame!]] [[How embarrassing are you?]] ...the Civil Law Habitat - the Law in Truth - before the Scientific Council of the Faculty of Law... [[The KPNs were shut down.]] ...and the Administration of the University of Warsaw. Since 2015, Director of the Office of Sejm Analysis and since 2016 member of the Scientific Council of the Institute of Justice. [[You should give up your mandate.]] He specializes in civil law, primarily in the general part, in the law of obligations, in the general part, and in the law of property. [[Get off the podium. Shame!]] [[It's a shame you're taking the floor.]] His civilistic achievements include so-called issues. the horizontal impact of constitutional standards. [[Prosecutor of martial law!]] [[Liar!]] As far as his scientific interests are concerned, the civil law remains documented by publications. [[Liar!]] [[How many times have you lied?]] Author of several dozen scientific publications, including two monographs. Co-author of monographs and co-author of popular among theorists and practitioners of civil law [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] commentary on the Civil Code. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that you are Prof. Dr. Hab. Michał Warciński is a good candidate for judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. According to the above, it is characterized by outstanding legal knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u864	Thank you very much. [[Liar! Scandal!]] I draw the attention of Mrs Pomaska... [[Pomaska.]] ...and Mr Caesar Tomczyk. You're interfering with the Sejm's deliberations. [[The D.A. is destroying the tribunal by the way.]] Mr Tomczyk, I would like to address you, on the basis of Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: I'm calling you into order. [[Thank you very much. I'm not afraid of your marshal.]] There you go. Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to speak in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u865	Miss Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an opinion on the choice of judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after considering the above mentioned the proposal at the meeting on 13 December 2016 and the discussion decided to give a positive opinion on Mr Michał Warciński's candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u866	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, I can see that. [[Voice from the hall: This is beneath our dignity.]] Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, came forward. [[Applause]] There you go. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this point. I'm opening a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u867	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the candidacy put forward by Members of the Law and Justice will not find the support of our club for a simple reason. Abstracting from form and from the fact that I can only sympathize with the fact that Dr. Habilitated is reported under such circumstances, under the cover of the night... [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] ...because, as you can see, you're trying to preserve the tradition and try to repeat this assassination attempt on the tribunal that you did on the night of December 2rd through December 3rd. I would like to stress that he is the author of an extremely unprofessional, and at some moments of embarrassing legal opinion, which in our opinion stresses that the quality of independence is unfortunately alien to this candidate. [[Milewski, call it in.]] I would like to stress that the statement made by your doctor that there has been a breach of the procedural rules governing the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the last term, as candidates have not been submitted simultaneously by the Sejm Bureau and a group of at least 50 Members, is the most curial opinion that has affected and concerned the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Unfortunately, Dr. Warciński devoted his work in the field of civil law to becoming the next face of the PiS group, which wants to take over the Constitutional Tribunal. In fact, one question arises: Will he question all the laws adopted since 1997? Because I'll remind you that art. 118 of the Constitution states that when it comes to draft laws, the legislative initiative is entitled to Members, the Senate, the President of the Republic of Poland and the Council of Ministers. Following this line of reasoning, Dr. Warciński... [[Habitated. Habilitated.]] ...unfortunately, he would have to question all without exception the laws that were passed in the Polish Parliament. Unfortunately, this opinion from last year, as well as a year's job as head of the Sejm Analysis Office and passing through so many legal books... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Okay, finish it.]] ...disqualify this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u868	Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u869	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Go ahead, sir, speak now.]] Professor Michał Warciński has at least a few advantages... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: At least.]] ...which predestinate him to become a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Especially knowing...]] She is a well-educated person with considerable scientific achievements, interesting professional experience. [[Three faculty.]] However, there is also another argument that I consider important. He seems like a self-righteous person. This restraint was lacking in the last year at the Constitutional Court. And this is an argument for me that further convinces me to support this candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u870	Please. Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u871	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday at the committee meeting, we asked the candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal a lot of questions. Unfortunately, most of the questions I have asked have not been answered, and I would therefore like to ask them again from this speaker. The public has the right to know who is elected judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You too have the right to know who will be the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Nominating someone who's only 37 years old... [[Smarter than you.]] ...a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal probably required extraordinary trust from the politicians of the ruling party. [[He's a professor.]] So, what stands out for PiS candidate as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? Do they know, experience? [[He'll have a long resting state later.]] What is Mr Warciński's opinion on fundamental legal issues for the country? How does he understand the concept of judicial independence, especially in the light of recent events of many doubts, the synchronous illness of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, selected by the votes of the governing party? What experience does he have in making speeches before the Constitutional Tribunal? According to our information, none. In the view of the candidate, does the President of the Republic of Poland have the right to refuse to take a vow from three properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Does the Prime Minister of the Republic have the right to assess the legality of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and to select only some for publication? How does he consider, as a representative of science, the creation of a legal structure in which there are no provisions for 14 days that govern the procedure and functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal? As assessed by the Art. 38 Constitution, which says that the Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life? Should it be interpreted as a guarantee of a man's life from the moment he was born, or from the moment he was conceived? We'd like to know the reasons. We expect answers to these questions and until we know the answers to these questions, we see no alternative but to vote against this candidacy. Nor do we see any alternative to voting against this candidacy, especially since yesterday, when answering questions, Mr Warciński made it clear that the Prime Minister of the Republic may break the constitution. He said that the extra-ordinary conditions led the Prime Minister not to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal on the basis of: action - reaction, i.e. if a neighbor steals, I can also steal. And so was the answer to other questions. Instead of confirming his qualifications, unfortunately, they simply multiplied our doubts about his competence. Silence and lack of answers to such key questions raised just now are simply disqualifying in the case of a person who... [[Voices from the room: Five, four, three, two, one, zero...]] [[Voice from the room: Stop!]] ... He's aspiring to be a candidate for such an important position. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u872	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u873	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we judge two things. On the one hand, Mr. Michael Warciński's value... [[There's no value.]] ...and here this work as a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal appears extremely modestly against the background of the candidates' resumes recently. But I won't... [[He was bullying you.]] ...he paid more attention to it. The second thing, very important, is the style in which the political environment, which recommends the candidate, does it. Yesterday we had a court-martial sitting, High Izbo, in an outrageous atmosphere. President Piotrowicz, who has no control over the proceedings of this committee. [[Voice from the room: How did you behave?]] Mrs Pavłowicz was in his role, commenting on all questions, all forms of asking questions to the candidate. Something amazing! And the latter seems to completely cancel Mr. Michał Warciński's candidacy. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party therefore does not see the possibility of supporting this candidacy as a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bure's voice!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u874	Mr Kaminski, the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u875	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our wheel won't support this candidacy... [[Oh, I was shocked.]] ...regardless of the fact that there are many good things that can be said about you. She certainly has a beautiful name. Congratulations to my parents. However, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled that this debate is about a legal dispute, that we are dealing with some equivalent legal concepts on which there is a discussion in Poland, because it is really a political dispute, which you admit. The Professor is a victim of this dispute in the sense that it is difficult for us today to discuss his competence in a situation where his candidacy is simply part of the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, which he is carrying out. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] And it is no different to treat this candidacy as a candidacy resulting from just a political plan, which is intended to be used for the ownership of the Republic of Poland. In yesterday's newspaper publications, PiS politicians are saying that your plan was simple, that the 500+ programme was supposed to guarantee you such strong support that the fast-track elections would take place quickly, and that you wanted to have an independent constitutional majority. This plan, clearly from the polls, didn't work out. Despite 500+, even if there were elections today, you can't have a constitutional majority. You're implementing Plan B. This plan B raises serious concerns, because we hear that the opposition must be regulated, the opposition leader anointed, and we know that the Constitutional Tribunal is supposed to guard unfortunately the interests of one political party, not the interests of the Constitution and the rule of law in the Republic of Poland. [[When it was 14 out of 15, it was good, right?]] And that is why we will not support this candidacy. Finally, I just wanted to express my concern, yes, concern about the possible condition of the President, because the custom is that the President signs everything immediately. Did you make sure you weren't asleep? [[Yes.]] ...and wouldn't you be disturbing his nightly peace by presenting him with the candidate voted out by the Sejm? [[Voice from the courtroom: It's embarrassing.]] Have a good night. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u876	Thank you, all of you. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. The Sejm pursuant to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act shall be elected by an absolute majority of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Michał Warciński as Judge of the Constitutional Court, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The absolute majority is 208. The vote was 231 against - 179, with five Members holding back. I state that the Sejm elected Mr Michał Warciński as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal by an absolute majority of votes. [[Applause]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 0 min 51 to hour 0 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 42 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft act on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes between Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies (print No 1151). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Paweł Gruza to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u877	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a governmental bill on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. This law introduces an agreement that will pave the way for mutual investment by introducing rules typical for international agreements on the avoidance of double taxation according to OECD standards. The agreement, which is annexed to the proposed law, is drawn up in accordance with modern standards in both the avoidance of double taxation and the safeguards limiting the use of the agreement to fully avoid taxation on each of the Contracting Parties. I'm sorry, not countries. The complicated international situation, Taiwan's international legal situation makes it impossible for us to adopt the ordinary method of ratification of the international agreement, we must apply the legal procedure. This is the mode used by a number of other countries in relation to Taiwan and constitutes a standard in this respect. I would also like to stress that a number of countries from our region, including the Visegrad Group, have such agreements signed and introduced into their legal order, which causes those countries to benefit from the higher levels of Taiwan's investment in their countries, which we cannot boast about at the moment against the background of the countries of the region. Therefore, the government's position clearly indicates the need for such a solution on the round anniversary of the 20th anniversary of the year in which Taiwan first proposed to sign such an agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u878	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jerzy Gosievski on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u879	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft of the Government's Tax Avoidance Act No 1151 and to prevent tax evasion in respect of income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. The proposed solutions will form the basis for cooperation between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of Taiwan's Finance Minister in the field of income taxes applies. The lack of regulation on the avoidance of double taxation in Poland's relations with Taiwan is so far an obstacle to the development of mutual economic relations. Taiwan is an important trading and investment partner. In view of the principles of Polish foreign policy in the case of Taiwan, it was not possible to conclude an act regulating the avoidance of double taxation in the form of an international agreement. On 21 October 2016, an agreement was signed between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw. The delegations which have concluded this agreement shall have specific competence, including the promotion of economic, commercial and cultural relations between Taiwan and Poland. The agreement concluded is not a classic international agreement. The main objective of the proposed law is to create a legal framework on the basis of which the principles of mutual cooperation in the field of income taxation will be defined by transposing the provisions of the agreement. The agreement uses a method of accounting proportionate to all categories of income as one of the methods of avoiding double taxation. As regards the exchange of information in tax matters, the proposed law sets international standards for the exchange of tax information between different tax administrations. The provisions on the exchange of tax information adopted in the agreement guarantee the exchange of information which may be of relevance to the administration and application of internal tax legislation, which includes an agreement. The solutions put forward by the High House introducing rules on the avoidance of double taxation in Poland's relations with Taiwan remove the obstacle to the development of mutual economic, commercial and cultural relations. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft Law on the avoidance of double taxation contained in print No 1151 and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u880	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, you will speak with Isabella Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u881	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Whenever there is an opportunity to commend the government, of course it is worth doing so, especially since the reasons for the praise of the PiS government so far have not been, and certainly the Minister of Finance of the Government of Law and Justice has not deserved any praise so far. But this bill is an exception to the rule. It is good that the government's work started by the previous government has been completed and that the problem of relations with Taiwan in the avoidance of double taxation has been resolved. Of course, this solution has flaws and carries certain risks, because this relationship cannot be normalized, regulated in the form of an international agreement. I hope that this principle of reciprocity will be sufficient to address the risks, but, of course, doubts remain. Unfortunately, there is more doubt, because in the explanatory memorandum the government writes about the beneficial impact of foreign investments, i.e. foreign capital, on the Polish market, including jobs. It would be good if the government unified its position and clarified whether foreign capital finally has a beneficial impact on the Polish economy, or rather this impact is negative, because the finance minister himself, Prime Minister Morawiecki, has doubts about it and changes his mind every now and then. This is important because a number of declarations, and what is more, the government's actions unfortunately result in this foreign capital and investment on the Polish market instead of developing, unfortunately shrinking. The effect is that as in 2016 about 600 foreign companies opened their branches in Poland, so this year only 250 such companies have managed to do so. The stability of the legal environment and the practical elimination from the Polish legal order of protection provided by the Constitutional Tribunal, which was the guardian of the legality of the Constitution, are certainly important for investors. Investment is certainly not conducive to conflicting government information on tax systems, tax levels, and the imposition of increasingly new taxes on different industries. In conclusion, the law solves the problem of double taxation, but it must be followed by the stability of the law, the stability of the tax system and, above all, compliance with the rule of law. Otherwise, we may not find Taiwanese people who would like to invest in Poland, but among other things, and maybe that's what this law is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u882	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u883	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present my position, very briefly due to the late time, the Kukiz Club15 in connection with the proceded government bill on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies. The Kukiz Poselski Club15 is in agreement with the procedated changes. We will vote in favour of directing this project after first reading to committee work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u884	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, Mr Michał Stasiński will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u885	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Modern Club, I declare my full support for the proposed law. Thank you very much for your personal commitment to this law by Mr Andzel. A dynamic person was needed to visit several decision-makers. Unfortunately, the system works so well that it was somewhere in the desk. It was only the effective action of the Member that allowed this to be speeded up significantly. That's very good. That's great. I hope that we will accept this by the end of the year so that it will apply from 1 January 2017. We're expecting one more thing. Namely to change the name of our representative in Taiwan from the Warsaw representative office in Taiwan to the Polish representative in Taiwan, because this is also what the Taiwanese expect. We're all in favour of being referred to the committee. Of course, the whole club will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u886	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska provided her written statement. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski will speak on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u887	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak on behalf of the circle of the European Union of Democrats, who fully accept this solution, all its provisions - I would very much like to thank the Minister and the government side - but above all I am speaking as president of the parliamentary team of Polish-Taiwan friendship - as far as I know, the largest team of this kind in our parliament. I don't think this is the right moment to tie this to internal disputes. This team, I can say a little ironically, is perhaps the only place in Poland where Platform, PiS, other parliamentary clubs, wheels work together in full harmony. Let's keep it. Therefore, to the slightest extent, I am not going to make this position dependent on any other conditions. I just want to say thank you again. Especially, to put it mildly, first of all with Mr Święcicki, whom I also thank - I will also mention some of the people who served in the previous term and in the previous term - we have put a lot of work into making this happen today. To put it mildly, our success in this area was limited. It was only during this term of office that this matter was successfully completed. We know exactly what the situation is. She's complicated. Therefore, these solutions seem to be optimal. In any case, Poland's role is neither to rebuild democracy in China nor to ensure stability in the Taiwan Strait. Taiwan, as you know, was created by the fact that Mao Tse-tung failed to win the civil war to the end, he did not take over the island where Chang Kaj-szek took refuge. Chang Kaj-szek established a fairly authoritarian system there. In the 1980s, actually in the 1970s, gradually through internal reforms and agreements after the death of Chang Kai-shek, a fully democratic state was rebuilt. Taiwan is today an exemplary, model Asian democracy, an exemplary economy. I don't want to... Maybe I'll make a mistake, but it looks like the area is 20,000. km2, that is as much as our voivodship, population - 23 million, but foreign reserves - 4 in the world. I would like to remind you that this is an economy that shares its wealth with others, and also shares it with Poland. There's a lot of charity initiatives. So far there have been many investments, also in the Zielona Góra, Łódź and Podkarpacie voivodships. Three investments are waiting. Two Warsaw investments and one Poznań investment are already awaiting the abolition of double taxation. Maybe that's the key thing. And I don't want to reduce everything to economic matters, of course, but, in fact, as far as the status quo is concerned in the straits and in that area, I think that what is now is actually best for all sides. Of course, I don't want to comment on Trump's famous phone because it's not the subject of our discussion here. In any event, for this reason, I very much thank the Ambassador of the Republic of China in Taiwan, or, for obvious reasons, the territory in which the Minister of Finance of Taiwan exercises his authority. Very nice name. There you go. That's his name. I'm not in either. Although perhaps you are right, you could change the name to more or less appropriate - such names are in other European countries, the European Union - the Warsaw office or the Polish office... means to change from Warsaw to Poland. I don't think that's the most important thing in the world, and I don't think it's the right thing to do right now. For obvious reasons, I am very pleased that the government has done so this year. This means the possibility of triggering what results from the abolition of double taxation, the elimination of consequences already in the year that is coming. So that it was very good. You could say we made it - it's almost five past twelve. Once again, thank you to Minister Janczyk - I do not know if I pronounce correctly - or Janczak - as I turned my name, I apologize - he has great credit for this too, Minister Paris, who also has great credit for this. They work differently, you can say, coalitions and connections, but they all serve a good purpose. It can be said that various efforts have been made over the years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've been coming between...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u888	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u889	Five seconds, five seconds. I've been in a lot of trouble between different ministries, but today is a very good day. I will, of course, inform your Ambassador Taiwan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u890	Thank you very much. Three other Members have joined the floor. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u891	And once again, I wanted to thank everyone who made this vote, I hope, come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u892	...as the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club. Time - 1 minute. Of course, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u893	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are aware that Taiwan's legal status in the context of international law is of a particular nature. Already in July 1996 a draft agreement was initialled between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taiwanese Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw concerning the avoidance of double taxation, but due to legal doubts, unfortunately this agreement was not signed, it was not successful. For the years to come, the case was periodically returned, and it was good that the government of Law and Justice was finally finalizing it. This is a great opportunity for us, it is an attractive economic, commercial partner, it will also make it easier for companies investing in Taiwan to gain large, new opportunities. I have a question: Has the proposed bill minimized the risk [[♪ The bell ♪]] the unbalanced application of the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u894	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u895	...if the Taiwanese partner does not implement the relevant legislation within the prescribed time limit and scope? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u896	Now you are asking Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u897	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law implements the agreement that was signed in October. This is a completely standard agreement to avoid double taxation, which is part of the agreements that all highly developed countries actually conclude among themselves. Only because of, I would say, all these legal doubts went on for an incredibly long time. Indeed, with Mr Niesiołowski that we walked near it in the previous term, there were written interpellations in this matter. I can only congratulate the current team for bringing the matter to an end that it signed this agreement in October and that it now presents it to the Sejm for ratification. Taiwan, as has been said here, has been a very highly developed country investing abroad since 2008, also has good economic relations with mainland China, so it was even more strange that we could not deal with it. And I'm glad that we finally managed to settle the case legally and approve it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u898	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u899	If there's any hope that once we've approved this, the president will sign...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u900	Now, Mr Waldemar Andzel is asking the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u901	...and this document will enter into force on 1 January. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u902	...law and justice club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u903	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the Government of Law and Justice for this law on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between the Republic of Poland and Taiwan. Thanks are due to the government, I would ask my person not to overestimate, although of course I have tried and supported this. This law will develop economic, commercial and cultural relations between Poland and Taiwan. This is a great opportunity for Poland, also in terms of economic development, improvement of economic relations, exchange between our countries. I hope that this law will enter into force this year, so that it will be applicable from 1 January 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u904	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Paweł Gruza will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u905	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the positions of the clubs, thank you for the comments made by your fellow Members. The agreement is based on a new version of the OECD Convention and therefore this work has already been carried out in the new framework and in the new OECD standards. As I said, this regulation assumes some modern or better safeguards against tax fraud, which may happen on the basis of old avoidance agreements. As far as the risk of asymmetricality is concerned, we do not see that risk. The construction is based on the principle of reciprocity, we have documents confirming the introduction of these agreements into the legal order of Taiwan's territory. And the last question - is there any chance that the effectiveness of this law or the effectiveness of this agreement will become a fact that this will take effect from 1 January 2017. Yes, of course, all our efforts on the government's side after receiving documents from Taiwan were directed to make it easier It's from January 1, next year, hence this accelerated mode and hence this effort. There are still many steps ahead of us, because it is not only Parliament's adoption, it is signing, publishing and exchanging notes with Taiwan. This must happen before the end of the year so that the effectiveness of this law and the effectiveness of this agreement are guaranteed from 1 January 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u906	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u907	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the governmental draft act on the avoidance of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between the Polish Republic and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan applies, print No 1151. The proposed law introduces an agreement between the Warsaw Trade Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Warsaw on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes together with a protocol signed in Taipei on 21 October 2016. The law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication and shall apply from 1 January 2017. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party welcomes the draft law. We will vote in favour of this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u908	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes between Poland and the territory to which tax law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance of Taiwan, contained in print No 1151, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 43 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the right to reduced travel by means of public collective transport and certain other laws (prints Nos 492 and 1124). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wypych to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u909	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act on the right to reduced travel by means of public collective transport and certain other laws, print No. 492. High Izbo, I inform you that the Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Communication with Poles abroad for first reading on 10 May 2016. Commissions: Commission for Education, Science and Youth and Commission for Communication with Poles abroad after first reading and considering this draft law after meetings on 16 November 2016 and 14 December 2016 ask the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. During their work, the Commission introduced substantive and editorial and legislative amendments and clarifications. 1. The purpose of the substantive amendment was to clarify the scope of teaching in Polish through the calculation of subjects and to include also pupils learning Polish and other subjects in Polish at their place of residence. 2. The amendment was a consequence of the extension of the system of reliefs for teachers teaching Polish and other subjects in Polish in schools operating in other countries' educational systems. The purpose of Amendment 3 was to grant the right to relief to foreign school pupils in a separate editorial unit due to the diversity of age eligible for relief. Amendment 4 was the consequence of the extension of the system of relief to teachers of Polish language and other subjects in Polish in schools operating in the system of education of other countries. 5. the amendment consisted in deleting the proposal for amendment contained in Article. 1 point 3 of the project. Amendment 6 consisted in the addition to the Law on communication allowances in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 and 4 and the purpose of this amendment was to indicate the authority required to issue and update the documents entitled to relief - the consul of the Republic of Poland - as well as the authority to determine, by regulation, the model documents and the manner in which they are issued. The purpose of Amendment 7 was to give the statutory rank the right to benefit from reduced admission fees to public museums. Amendment 8. was the consequence of the designation of the Consul of the Republic of Poland as the competent authority for issuing and updating documents authorising reduced journeys within the country. Amendment 9 consisted in deleting the transitional provision in view of the proposal to amend the vacathio legis period. Amendment 10 concerned the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Act 3 months after the date of publication. In addition, the committees accepted two amendments tabled by the Legislative Bureau and made substantive amendments to the Nature Conservation Act. The aim is to clarify the scope of teaching in Polish by calculating subjects and extending the system of relief to students learning Polish and other subjects in Polish at their place of residence. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I shall bring them in and recommend their adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u910	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Dworczyk will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u911	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I think it is important to thank the President and Minister Kwiatkowski, whose personal merit is the preparation of this project, for taking the next step in this direction to strengthen the link between Poles living outside the country and their motherland, for building a Polish national community consistently, regardless of where Poles live and what citizenship they have. This is the case that the President announced during his first speech. It's a matter or a mission that the President carries out every time he goes abroad. Each time he finds time to meet our fellow countrymen, he spends his energy, time and concrete legislative initiatives such as this. Thank you very much. After introducing the Polish Charter for our compatriots living in the Soviet Union, the next step is to introduce a card for students studying in Polish schools - most of such schools are Saturday-Sunday - in schools near parishes, where young Poles learn Polish language, Polish history, geography, culture, and so these subjects are fundamental from the point of view of Polish national identity. The fact that this project covers the whole world deserves particular emphasis. Our countrymen, young Poles learning in Saturday-Sunday schools, whether in Argentina, Belarus or Kazakhstan, will be able to count on such a school card. Someone will say that these reliefs that we offer are not very much, but in fact the symbolic dimension is extremely important, and knowing that after coming to Poland you can benefit from the relief in communication, that you can benefit from the relief in the use of museums, national parks, gives you a sense of belonging to the great national community, the Polish national community, gives proof that the Polish state thinks of all Poles outside the country. There were discussions in the committee, of course questions were raised as to whether more privileges could be granted to those who would have these school cards. I think we've taken an important step in the right direction, that nothing stands in the way of a catalogue of privileges to expand when it's possible. I also think that this is a very good step towards finally organizing the knowledge about Polish institutions around the world in which Polish language is taught. It is a shame to admit, but since 1989 the Polish state has not created such a list of places where young Poles can learn Polish language, Polish history or Polish culture. I think that the introduction of these ID cards and the expansion of this project over time will lead to the creation of a catalogue of such institutions, and this project that we are debating today will serve that purpose. In short, it is a valuable initiative. Thank you again for your great thanks to the President, the Minister. The Law and Justice Club, a party that has always emphasized in its programs that it supports Polonia and Poles outside the country, a party that has always stressed that our fellow countrymen must be treated in a subjective way, a party that has always stressed that the Polish national community should be built and supported regardless of what passport our fellow countrymen have today, will support the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u912	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Fabisiak will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u913	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present, as your marshal said, on behalf of the Platform, our position. I agree with the previous speaker: a good idea, a slightly worse implementation. Why? Because this bill, as proposed, discriminates against children. We divide into those who are learning Polish, it is good that they are learning and we all care about it - very much the Civic Platform cared and cared that as many children should learn - but in many cases it is not the fault of these children that they cannot learn. It's a matter of distance, it's a different cultural addiction, it's very difficult sometimes to understand, but that's what happens. Finally, the last situation, that is when teaching on-line, is necessary a great commitment of parents. Imagine mothers who work, leave - usually it's economic emigration. A mother who has four children told me: on-line requires me to sit with a child and help when to do it? Note that these children who learn Polish are mainly young children. This is a pyramid, the most you learn children up to the age of 10, then this pyramid gets smaller, so it's very hard to say that all children have a chance. Hence our amendment, the Civic Platform will propose such an amendment to extend this group simply to all children. Some come often, others less often, it will not, I think, so much burden, and yet it is important that all our children are treated fairly. It also gives savings, because think about it, handling this task is very expensive. I'm about to talk about the burdens on the consulates I've been told about. The Minister has already received a letter from the Polish School Mothers from the UK, where school heads say: we, however we wish, are not able to take on these duties of recording, updating. Often it's one person, a director who works on the board to earn a living, and as a volunteer, he runs a school, so he can't take on additional duties to deal with his credentials. Or is it the consulate? Consulate - today, during the committee meeting, Minister Dziedziczak spoke about problems. I fully support this vote. We will be asking that in these places, even as in the UK, where consuls are heavily charged, the number of jobs increase, it is simply necessary if we are to add this task in some way. Finally, there's a social school thing, and that's what the principals are defending themselves against. They don't have money to send, to stamps, etc. So this economy that's going to be done here, I think it's going to somehow balance out the sums that would have to be spent to give all the kids IDs. As I say, the project, the idea is very good. After enlargement it will gain our full acceptance, after extension to all Polish children. There's only one thing that has bothered us, Minister, namely the lack of consultation with the environment. England, 130 school matrices, thousands of children, and the fact that it wasn't consulted. At the moment, letters are also coming from individual teachers, how to resolve - I will gladly send this letter to the Minister - this problem to be cheap and good. I think this should become a standard, but nothing about us without us, and so everyone, and especially such a serious matter, should be consulted with specialists, and are there better specialists than the heads of these schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u914	Mr Wojciech Bakun will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u915	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the presidential draft law amending the law on the privileges of reduced journeys. First of all, like my previous speakers, I would like to thank you very much for this project. We also saw this need in the Kukiz Members' Club15. I'm so glad this initiative came from the president. I think that both the rapporteur of the committee and the chairman of the Committee on Communications with Poles abroad, Mr Dworczyk, have clearly presented the assumptions and nature of this project. There's nothing left to add. I would just like to ask you to address the problem of children and young people living abroad, for example in the UK, Ireland, Germany, who do not attend Polish schools. I understand that this is a separate matter, and that is why we have not tabled any amendments in this case, because the law refers to children learning Polishness, connecting - as the Member said - with matrix. On the other hand, it is about addressing the problem of these families, over 2 million people who are outside the country. These children do not always go to Polish schools, and perhaps free public transport would not burden the budget so much. It would be worth showing that the State does not forget them, it encourages us to return, for example by giving free travel privileges. I would ask you to draw attention to the problem of new emigration, people who live, you can say, more in the west of Europe, but also around the world, the problem of children and young people attending not Polish schools, which would also belong to these trips. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u916	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u917	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club vis-à-vis the presidential bill amending the Law on the right to reduced travel by means of public collective transport and certain other laws. First of all, I would like to thank the President and the Minister for this valuable initiative. I must say that I personally very much appreciate the President's efforts to build a community. Indeed, it is valuable in this project that our compatriots or people who have decided to learn Polish in different types of schools may feel the same as everyone else. We will not distinguish these people, we will grant them the powers that Polish children also have. It's a very important step. The only concern that was expressed during the committee meeting was whether our consulates would be able to issue effectively the documents entitled to relief, i.e. the cards that would entitle them to such reliefs. I hope that we will do everything we can to ensure that we do not disappoint the expectations that these documents will appear at the right time. Of course, we will support this bill. Thank you very much again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u918	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas provided his statement on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party in writing. One Member has asked questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Please, Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u919	Mr. Marshal! Minister! While respecting the legitimacy of the initiative to strengthen the intellectual and cultural condition of our diaspora beyond borders, I ask the question whether the proposed solution covers both old and new emigration. If so, does it not seem appropriate to create links to maintain ties with the country in relation to the needs of emigration, and is it true that this legitimacy and the resulting powers are a tangible, real bonding element in this area, combining both sentimental and pragmatic aspects? Thus, recognising the legitimacy and relevance of this legislative initiative, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also ask about this sentimental and pragmatic dimension of it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u920	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State or Minister? Minister. Please, Minister Adam Kwiatkowski on behalf of the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u921	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Members of the two committees, and in particular the subcommittee, for the work on the bill which was addressed to Parliament by the President, for all the comments which are already partly used in this bill, and in part will be used in the work that is being undertaken in the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, and will also be analysed, I believe in this, by the relevant departments. I answer the Member's question. This law is addressed to all children learning Polish geography, history, regardless of where they live in the country and how long they stay in it, as well as whether they have Polish citizenship and feel somehow connected with Poland. Taking advantage of the fact that I am taking the floor, I would like to say that this law eliminates certain injustices or, you might say, certain discriminations, because today we are dealing with such a situation that some children studying in Polish schools outside our homeland have the right to school cards, and some of this right does not exist. So we extend this right to all the children who learn in these schools. And why the ones they're learning? Because only those children who learn in Poland have the right to legitimacy. The ones that stop learning are the rights to discounts they lose. This law is - I would like it to sound here - the result of petitions submitted by thousands of Polish parents of children who go to Polish schools, including in the UK, and is actually the answer to these petitions and those requests, which include. At this point, the President's office was influenced by it, as part of discussions, discussions, consultations with representatives of teachers from different parts of the world, and it was certainly very warmly welcomed. The proposal that you gave me during the meeting of the High House is actually a proposal that would in some sense be inefficient, because I read here that it is a proposal to send these cards to one institution in Poland. These students are about 70,000, so if 70,000. letters will come to one institution, it will certainly be a less efficient undertaking than when these cards will be issued or extended by a network of Polish consular posts and consular departments at embassies, which are much more and which have knowledge of what schools operate in their territory. This is a right, not an obligation, so if a school doesn't want to exercise that right, then no one will force this school or these parents to do so. Thank you very much for this discussion and thank you very much for these votes. I'm done here, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u922	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u923	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Law on the right to reduced travel by public collective transport and certain other acts is the first draft law on the subject of Polish society directed at the session of the Sejm at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland. There is no denying that this is the President's response to the needs of Polish people and Poles living abroad. According to the Polish People's Party, this project does not exhaust this subject, but it is a decisive response to some of the needs of our compatriots living abroad. As we read, its main goal is to balance the rights of Polish and Polish children learning abroad. Until now, the document authorising the relief was a school card issued only by schools operating in Poland or run by diplomatic institutions. The so-called reliefs do not include children learning in social schools run by Polish educational organizations, parents' associations, Polish parishes and Polish sections organized at international schools. Students don't have school IDs there. Hence, when they come to their homeland, they have no relief despite the age that entitles them to be granted. The project grants students of social schools run by Polish educational organizations, parents' associations, Polish parishes and Polish sections organized at international schools and registered at the Centre for the Development of Polish Education abroad the right to relief for public transport journeys and the right to relief in the event of entry to museums and national parks in Poland. The privileges relating to travel reliefs shall also be granted to teachers in these schools. The changes made aim to reward those disciples who are undertaking the task of gaining knowledge of their ancestors' homeland. Possession by Polish children abroad of a document confirming their entitlement to relief in Poland has an educational and patriotic value. It will be a visible document confirming their relationship with Poland. The PSL Club will support the changes proposed by your President, but we do not hide the fact that we are counting on the President's greater activity in matters relating to national issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u924	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 14 December. I would like to inform you that you have come forward with a view to making a declaration. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The statement is made by Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u925	Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are at the end of the year, in which we commemorated the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, so allow this reflection, very personal reflection. Old churches amaze me. I realize that I am in a number of hundreds of faithful who before me, and I trust that they will kneel before Jesus, who is present in these churches in the tabernacle. The old churches smell, creak, and the others once again roam from polychromia, discovering their naked walls. Everyone has been sighing at them with a deep prayer that has been associated with them for years. How to listen well, to pray without memory, to hear intents spoken loudly or in secret spirit, and to warm up their insistentness, deep hope and faith. When I kneel down or settle down in the shadows of old balconies, I sink into the sounds of these temples, I will look carefully at the bales at the altar, inquiringly judge the deep-broken kneelings and think of those who were here before me. Sometimes I ask myself, " Am I worthy enough to be here in their shadow? ' Are my faith and her testimony fervent enough and present among my loved ones or my associates to feel that I am properly fulfilling the heritage of my ancestors? These are not easy questions, for we usually need to answer them ourselves, in full awareness of Jesus'presence. A pure, subjective truth about itself and its testimony, abandoning it and/or filling it in any way or half-witness is necessary. We roam in faith in the aftermath of many generations. Our parents aroused in us the zeal of faith, lifting it out of their homes, and those far away antennaes from earlier generations. That's the duty of a parent. That's the duty of a parent. We're adults. At times, it is worth to pray in behalf of those who were before us in the church visited by us. It is worth rocking them with our heartfelt prayer and memory, thanking them also for this church, and for the great heritage of faith and love of the country. I assume from the faded images the faces of the saints will look upon us. Above us will be dominated by dusty figures, figures enclosed in sculptures, with carved corridors by barkstones, imagined or transmitted in the authentic history of their lives and gestures. How many pairs of human eyes looked at them, how many of the words of the litany were whispered to them, how many candles and bouquets of flowers were given to them? It all comes to us as soon as we want to open our soul to subtle blows from the past. Is it ballast? Am I supposed to accept this as an unwanted legacy? Or should we find ourselves convinced that we are continuing to go to God together, as our fathers and their families were going years ago? Yes, I assume it's better that it's my duty and my joy and my happiness. Of course it doesn't wake up right away. It is achieved through various own experiences of reading traces from years ago. When I look at young people standing in front of the church during Mass, I assume they haven't grown to it yet. Temples of human hearts, just as we present as they came here years ago to fade these places through the hardships of life. It is as if they, those before us, gave us their hands and invited us to the benches, sat next to us, and in one-sounding words they repeated: I believe and I stand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u926	That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u927	Statement on the 123rd anniversary of Mieczysław Smorawinski's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 December this year. is the 123rd anniversary of the birth of the Polish Army Brigadier General Mieczysław Smorawinski who was murdered in Katyn. I'd like to take this opportunity to say a few words about this patriot's life. Mieczysław Makary Smorawinski was born on December 25, 1893 in Kalisz. He graduated from general school and Polish School of Commerce. When he was 18 years old, he was sentenced to six months in prison for independence and sent into Russia. After being punished, he began his studies in Lviv, during which he received military training and completed an officer's course. Smorawinski stopped his studies due to the outbreak of World War I. He went to Cracow and joined the Polish Legions, where he served as commander of the platoon, company and then battalion. After the oath crisis, Smorawinski stayed in 2. The Infantry Regiment of the Polish Food Corps and then served in the Polish Armed Forces. In 1918 he joined the Polish Army, where he became commander of Battalion II 8. The Legion Infantry regiment. He led it on the Polish-Ukrainian front, in Lithuania and Belarus. Before the end of the war, he was Commander 4. Legion Infantry Regiment and Commander of the IV Legion Infantry Brigade, which fought in the Warsaw and Hrubieszow area. After the end of the Polish-Bolshevik war he completed the course of commanders of infantry regiments and division infantry. During the May coup, he took the side of Józef Piłsudski. At the age of 35, he was promoted to brigade general with seniority and was then the youngest general in the Polish Army. When World War II broke out, Smorawinski was the commander of Corpus No. 2 District in Lublin, where he organized the mobilization of troops and supplies bases for fighting troops. Then he went to Kowl and later to Włodzimierz Wołyński. After the Red Army entered the territory of Eastern Poland gen. Smorawinski forbade his subordinate troops from attacking the enemy and started negotiations. According to the agreement, he was to go with his unit towards Bug, but after leaving on 20 September 1939 he was detained as a prisoner of war. Then he stayed in POW camps for several months and was placed in a camp in Kozielsk. A year later, in April, he was murdered along with the rest of the victims declared enemies of Soviet power in Katyn. He was one of two identified generals during the exhumation of a corpse in the Katyn Forest in 1943. For his service to the country he was awarded, among others. The Silver Cross of the Order of War of Virtuti Militari, the Commander's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, the Cross of Independence, four times the Cross of Valiant and the Golden Cross of Merit. In 2007, he was posthumously promoted to the rank of Maj-Gen by the deceased. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u928	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Celebrated on 13 December this year. The 35th anniversary of the martial law reminds us of the dramatic events of December 1981. The introduction of martial law in Poland was an absolute attempt to overcome the hopes raised in Polish society in August 1980. I'm gonna get ours is this day, and tomorrow is unknown, So let's do it like it's our age. Underneath the free country, lay the foundation quietly, And if someone of our Polish house turns on, We all have to be ready. 'Cause we'd better just stand there and die, than we have, kneeling, on our knees to live. Solidarni, ours is this day. Let us unite because one is our goal. How today, on the next anniversary of the declaration of martial law, the words of the anthem of the NSZZ.Solidarity take on real shape, recalling those who courageously said: not the regime, the ruthless oppressor whose purpose was to conquer the world, the victory of ideology, and the method - crime, violence, and lying. The heroes of those days were not afraid to stand firm and say: We want to be free! If it hadn't been for that victim, there wouldn't have been this freedom, our freedom," said President Andrzej Duda. A tribute fighting for freedom and independence is our national and personal duty. We owe them memory and respect. The anniversary also prompts us to reflect on what needs to be done so that no more innocently shed blood can write down the pages of our nation's history so painfully. The strength of Poland lies in the limitless need of freedom and unity, and as Blessed One said. Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko: Solidarity is the unity of human hearts, minds and hands rooted in ideals that are able to transform the world for the better. Today, after 35 years, those who were then on the side of the regime are trying to convince Poles that martial law was a time of complete culture. We must not allow lies to be planted in the minds of our fellow countrymen in the minds of the young generation. The memory of the dramatic events of December 1981 be a thank you for your faithfulness to ideals, for democracy, for free Poland!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u929	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the coming days we will celebrate the next anniversary of the memorable events of December 1970. On 17 December there was bloody street clashes of the inhabitants of the city with militia and army. In these tragic circumstances, 16 people lost their lives and over 100 were injured. On the streets of the capital of the then Szczecin Voivodeship came mainly workers - shipyards from Szczecin Shipyard. Adolf Warski. It's right there after hours. So 10 a.m. began under the building of the plant management. The workers demanded explanations about expensive food, but above all they wanted an answer about the events in the Tricity. About an hour. 11, an hour after the start of the rally, the yard was headed towards the seat of the city's national council, with more than half a thousand people who were gradually joined by young people. At one point, however, there was a dispersal of protestors under the pressure of the militia using tear gas and sticks. After an hour, another, almost three-fold larger lineage, consisting of about 1,500 people, which included, apart from the shipbuilders from the shipyard of Warska, also workers from other Szczecin factories. On the street. Dubois won a fight with militia troops. Manifesting, whose number has increased to 20,000. people, reached the seat of the PZPR Voivodeship Committee. Several bottles of gasoline were thrown in from a crowd gathered under KW PZPR's building, which started a fire. The balance of the first day of December events in Szczecin is 13 hours of protests, assaults, fights and demonstrations, from hours. 9 a.m. at Szczecin Shipyard until 9 a.m. 22. 13 people died in the riots. The next day, on December 18th, a general occupation strike began at the Szczecin plant. At the gate of Szczecin Shipyard there was a military which, as a result of bilateral provocations, opened fire to demonstrators and killed two people and injured several others. On 19 December, the city was taken over by a strike committee of more than 110 different workplaces, headed by Mirosław Dopierała. Demonstrators demanded that the authorities comply with 21 demands, among others. the establishment of independent trade unions, the punishment of the guilty massacre, the increase in earnings by 30% and the abolition of the increase in food prices. The strike ended December 22. During the December revolt, the PZPR Provincial Committee was seized and set on fire, attempts were made to take over the command of the voivodship MO and the seat of the voivodship commission of trade unions, the office of the prosecutor's office, the arrest of the investigators, the military unit and the municipal building of the national council. The events led to the resignation of Władysław Gomulka from the position of First Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u930	Declaration by Members on the amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices (prints Nos 985 and 1080) The draft law amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices extends its scope. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 paragraph 3 by clarifying the concept of another totalitarian system, it extends it to such categories as: Prussian, Russian and German militarism, Ukrainian and Lithuanian nationalism, which is incompatible with scientific definitions. One of the professors at the University of Warsaw said in this regard: "The law contains nonsense: most nationalisms were not totalitarian, just as totalitarian was not Prussian or Russian militarism. I am concerned about the possibility of interpreting regulations and, consequently, any qualification of commemorative objects for liquidation. I fear that the introduction of such records could cause mass destruction of monuments and commemorative plaques, particularly concerning the environments of national and ethnic minorities, for which these sites are an important element of culture, history and identity. The proposed amendment to the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism may also result in action against commemorations which have been restored at the initiative of persons belonging to national and ethnic minorities since 1990. To a large extent, it can refer to monuments and commemorations related to the history and national-cultural identity of minorities, especially German, Ukrainian, Lithuanian, Belarusian and Slovak. It should be remembered that the vast majority of commemorations have been restored as a result of long-term arrangements by local authorities, voivodships, the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom and minority representatives. The Seym Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities was also involved in the negotiations. As a result of these arrangements, a compromise has been reached that has allowed the majority of such monuments and other objects to be organized. This process was particularly evident in Opole, where for several years there was a committee in charge of the voivodeship. monuments. It consisted of representatives of local government, voivodeship, the Church and German minority. The effect of the committee is to regulate the issue of commemoration and end the so-called. A monumental war. Today, in the face of the proposed provisions of the amendment of the law, one should be aware of the risk of creating another monumental war, which can also cause retorts in neighbouring countries, where Polish monuments are located. I therefore appeal to the Law and Justice Club to take into account my concerns - confirmed by the opinions of many authorities, among others. Prof. Grzegorz Janusz, Prof. Piotr Madajczyk and Prof. Krzysztof Ruchniewicz - and decided to withdraw from the legislative work the draft amendment to the Act on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system (prints Nos 985 and 1080) or to leave the existing definition of totalitarianism recognised by the scientific community and in force in the current legal state.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u931	Statement on air quality in Poland in connection with the latest report of the European Environment Agency. On the website of the European Environment Agency we can find the latest edition of the air status report. It is worrying for us that Poland, together with other Central European countries, is once again at the forefront of this report. According to this latest report, we are still in the forefront of countries that have a problem especially with suspended dust arising mainly from the combustion of solid fuels. In the case of PM10, the most days exceeding the standard are recorded in Bulgaria. Then there is Poland and then Croatia and Greece. Among European countries where there is virtually no PM10 dust problem are Ireland, Estonia, Finland and the United Kingdom. Central European countries are also at the forefront of PM2.5 dust pollution. In our part Europe is also experiencing the highest exceedance for benzo (a) pyrene, which is a very strong carcinogen resulting, inter alia. when burning mainly plastic in unsuitable installations. Unfortunately, Poland is the leader in this category. Poor air quality in Poland is mainly responsible for low emissions, i.e. burning poor fuel quality and garbage in domestic furnaces. The latest report shows that air quality in Europe has improved significantly. However, many inhabitants of cities, especially in Poland and the whole of Central Europe, are still exposed to higher levels of pollution. Contaminants are both directly harmful to man and to the environment. In its report, the European Environment Agency points out the need for a thorough analysis of the causes of pollutant emissions and changes not only in the economy but also in the way of life. I am deeply aware that improving this situation is a very difficult task. However, I would like to ask the High House and all ministers and representatives of the ministries to take action to reduce air pollution in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u932	Statement on plans to change the name of three Tarnów streets to Lech Kaczyńskiego Avenue. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Some time ago, members of the Tarnów Law Association proposed to change the name of the streets of Elektra, Spokojna and Błona to Lech Kaczyńskiego Avenue. Of course, the idea gained fierce groups of both opponents and supporters. This initiative immediately divided Tarnów. Almost 2,000. Tarnow's inhabitants signed a petition against changing the name of the streets. Neither party should be criticised, because the essence of democracy is precisely that everyone can take a specific position on a given matter. However, such a change will cause a lot of normative problems, as well as financial problems for entrepreneurs who are based on this network of streets. There are over 70 such facilities. Company owners estimate costs at even several thousand zlotys. A copy of the documents that will have to be mentioned are, among others. registration of cars, documents from tax offices or ZUS and documents related to KRS. Entrepreneurs will also be forced to update their promotional and information materials, such as: commercials on cars. This problem also applies to natural persons living on this street. The exchange will be subject to driver's license or passports and other personal documents. To sum up, it will certainly not be a small cost. It is worth noting at this point that in no case do we oppose the name proposed, but changes that bring very high costs and administrative burdens. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this matter divided the Tarnów society. However, it turns out that it is possible to take a completely different path in this respect, without having to bear the administrative costs of the proposed changes, and this solution is absolutely unacceptable in the name of the sleepers. Lech Kaczyński, but on the contrary. Well, it's a great place to name a sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński, there is a roundabout located next to Tarnów nitrogen plants. This place is also representative and could properly serve as a memorial of the memory of the dead. The president. Interestingly, it was this route - at that time there was still a crossroad - that President Lech Kaczyński moved towards Wierzchosławic after visiting Tarnów. In this case, it would also take an extremely transcendent and symbolic dimension to follow our proposal. In our view, consideration should be given seriously to abandoning the original shape of the planned changes. Citizens will avoid many problems of a formal and financial nature, and the name of the dead. Lech Kaczyński will be commemorated with dignity.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u933	Declaration on the ceremony in Lubartów celebrating the 35th anniversary of the martial law. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 13 December 1981 is one of the most tragic dates in the recent history of Poland. Communist authorities declared war on the nation resulting in many victims, repressions and dramatic consequences for the country. We do not forget about this date, which is reflected in the celebrations organized throughout Poland. On Sunday 11 December, the 35th anniversary of the martial law was celebrated in Lubartów. The celebrations began with Holy Mass. for the homeland in the Basilica of St. Anna, attended by representatives of the municipal authorities, headed by Mayor Janusz Bodziacki and his deputy Radosław Szumcem. The celebrations began with Holy Mass. for the homeland in the Basilica of St. Anna, sent away by Fr. Andrzej Jóźka. It was attended by banner mails, veterans, representatives of municipal authorities headed by Mayor Janusz Bodziacki and his deputy Radosław Szumcem, as well as councillors, scouts, regionalists, school heads, teachers and students. The musical theme was provided by the band Psallite Deo under the supervision of Zbigniew Skrzypka. After Mass. The main celebrations took place at the Lubartów Cultural Centre. The performances of the Lubartowska choir under the direction of Alfred Kędzior and young people from the 2nd High School of General Education. Peter Firley. The performances were elevated and patriotic. After the artistic performances, the mayor Janusz Bodziacki, Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of the Central Eastern Region of the NSZZ.Solidarity, Marek Wątorski, presented this statement by a Member of the Law and Justice of Krzysztof Szulowski. Mayor Janusz Bodziacki on behalf of Lubartov's society on the 35th anniversary of the introduction of martial law handed over representing the management board of the region, Mark Wątorski and the chairman of the NSZZ field branch, Solidarity in Lubartów, Mariaoli Gąsior symbolic statuettes. After the academy in the Lubartowski Gallery, the Cultural Centre was also able to see the exhibition "Solidarity" from the materials of the Institute of National Remembrance. I would like to thank Lubartovski for inviting me to this ceremony. This whole day has been special to me, lived in a patriotic and national spirit since this morning. In Puławy this morning, we finished preparing Christmas packages as part of helping Poles in the East. Later, also in Puławy, in the church of St. Alberta held a similar ceremony as in Lubartów, organized by the Puławy Solidarity. The presence in Lubartów was especially important to me, as for the first time I was able to pay tribute to the heroes of Lubartow's land from the time of creation of the Solidarity and martial law. People of Solidarity, accept the highest respect and appreciation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-14-sejm-32-2.u934	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9 today, 15 December 2016 [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 51]]
