ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I am calling on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Kinga Gajewska. In the first part of the session, Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Małgorzata Golińska will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Małgorzata Golińska and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 8th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to move from the agenda of the current meeting of the point: Information of the Foreign Minister on the tasks of Polish foreign policy in 2016. This point will be considered at the 10th meeting of the Sejm on 29 January this year, i.e. Friday. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has submitted a report on the government draft law on the re-use of public sector information. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the Government's draft budget law for 2016. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted reports on Parliament's draft laws Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as provisions introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The reports shall be printed in No 197 and 198 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate on the committee's report on the government draft budget law for 2016. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in a joint discussion of the committee's reports on draft laws Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the provisions introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider the current information on the financial situation of Polish local governments, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. The formal application is submitted by Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I would like to make a formal request for a break and a call to the Convention of Seniors [[Applause]] in order to decide to supplement the agenda for the report by the European Union Commission on the parliamentary draft resolution on the immigration policy of the Polish state within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft resolution, which obliges the government to change the decision on immigration policy of the Polish state - to ensure that it is the High Chamber that obliges the government - to finally take decisions in accordance with the Polish national interest, is waiting for the High House to consider from 26 November. From that moment on, the Marshal of the Sejm did not find the time to include this important point - important from the point of view of the interests of Poland, the Polish nation - under the proceedings of the Sejm. Therefore, I ask that this draft resolution finally become the subject of the proceedings of the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u3	There you go. I would like to ask you to make such a request... Actually, you should have called him in by an hour. On the 21st day preceding the beginning of the session... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: And how were we supposed to know what Mr. Marshal...]] ...because formal requests, the High Sejm, may relate to the proceedings and the agenda. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u4	I kindly inform you that on 27 and 28 January this year. at 3 p.m. In the lower smoking shop, ZUS employees run a consultation point on changes in social insurance related, among others. with a contract-of-order membership. We cordially invite Members of the House to consult experts from the Social Security Office. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.15, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11.30, - Legal notice - hour. 11.30, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Culture and Media - hour 13.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 16.45. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 14, - Dolnośląskie Parliamentary Team - h.m. 15. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u5	With a formal application? [[Yes.]] Mrs Siarkowska again with a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u6	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! A formal request was made for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention to complete the agenda on a fundamental issue for state security and for the Polish national interest. I would very much ask that this formal motion be put to the vote by your marshal, so that you simply do not pass the marshal, so to speak, on the agenda of the formal proposal which has been tabled by the Member. I ask you to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u7	Madam President, I kindly explain to you that your statements cannot be included in the formal proposals, because in accordance with Article. Paragraph 184. 2 formal applications may relate only to matters on the agenda. [[There's a little bit of it over there.]] High Seym! Today's agenda was established, approved by the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2016 (prints 146 and 194). I ask Mr Andrzej Jaworski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! On 22 December 2015, the Government of the Republic of Poland submitted a draft budget law to the Sejm for 2016. The first reading of this project took place on 29 December. After the Sejm has failed to accept the motion to reject the draft law at first reading, the draft law in accordance with Article. Article 106 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and its individual parts were sent to the relevant Sejm committees to submit to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments, together with justification. The draft budget law has been examined by the Committee on Public Finances in accordance with the agreed timetable, and the result of this work is a report in print No 194, to which 214 minority proposals have been added. Before discussing the work of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget, the most important information on the macroeconomic assumptions adopted for the budget consultation and the basic size of the state budget should be recalled. Macroeconomic assumptions. As far as macroeconomic assumptions are concerned, they are realistic. The government plans to increase real GDP by 3.8% in 2016, i.e. by 0.4 percentage points more than expected implementation in 2015 At the same time, the dynamics of the components of gross domestic product will differ slightly from the dynamics of 2015, which will partly result from the reforms being implemented, including the planned support programme for families with children, the improvement of the labour market situation and the increase in purchasing power as a result of inter alia. a fall in fuel prices. In 2016, exports are expected to increase by 6%, imports by 6.5%. , while investment expenditures - 7%. At the same time, domestic demand is expected to increase by 4%, i.e. more than 0.3 per cent in 2015 The inflation is to be 1.7%. against low deflation in 2015 A secure current account deficit of 1.5% will persist GDP. However, it is worth noting that the macroeconomic assumptions underlying the budget were prepared a few months ago on the basis of available national and international data at that time. Moreover, these assumptions do not differ from those of the previous government when drawing up the draft budget law for 2016. However, these assumptions will be reviewed over time, and particularly in the circumstances of changing the international situation. Economic development forecasts drawn up by national and foreign institutions, including in particular the European Commission, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, will also be reviewed, whose forecasts differ relatively slightly due to their different timing and methodological assumptions. The International Monetary Fund forecast published in October 2015 and the European Commission's forecast published at the beginning of 2015 assumed GDP growth for Poland in 2016 at 3.5% , while the OECD forecast at the beginning of November 2015 assumed 3,4% GDP growth for Poland. On the other hand, the World Bank's forecast published in January 2016 identified this increase at 3,7%. , i.e. only 0.1 percentage points. below the forecast adopted by the Polish government. The median recent national projections also indicate that GDP growth in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the fourth quarter of 2015 is expected to be 3.7%. The European Commission's autumn forecast also shows that growth rates in the European Union will increase to 2% in 2016 and 1.8% in the euro area. This means that in 2016 Poland will continue to have a higher rate of growth than average growth in the European Union. Investment in the European Union will increase by 3.5% in 2016 , and in the euro area by 3%. In Poland this increase will be much higher, estimated by the Commission at 5.5%. Poland was among the six countries of the European Union with the highest growth in investment. This is, as you can see, an increase of 1.5 percentage points lower. from the Polish government and reduced by 0.8 percentage points. from forecasted recently by Polish analysts. However, this does not mean that such an increase in investment corresponds to our expectations, therefore the dynamics of investment should be further strengthened so that it can support Poland's economic development in the coming years. The general government budget deficit will amount to 2% in 2016 in the European Union. GDP and 1.8% in the euro area GDP. In Poland it is expected to reach 2.8% GDP, which means it will be above the EU average. This is therefore also in the light of the Council of Europe's recommendations, the challenge for Poland to adopt a budget allowing further reduction of the planned deficit level, including in particular the achievement of a 0.5% fiscal adjustment. GDP, bringing the medium-term budgetary objective closer together. This challenge is also highlighted by the Monetary Policy Council in its opinion on the draft budget of this year. For the general government sector, this will be 87.1% in 2016. GDP in the European Union and 92.9% GDP in euro area countries. In Poland it will be 52.4% GDP, so it's going to be relatively low. This level will not interfere with the sustainability of public finances. The European Commission recalled that the economic recovery in the euro area and across the European Union has been taking place for 3 years and should continue to grow slowly in 2016, despite the increasingly difficult conditions in the global economy. The outlook for global growth and global trade has deteriorated significantly since spring 2015, mainly due to the slowdown of emerging markets economies, mainly China. It could have consequences. also for the Polish economy, which will continue to operate in a difficult external environment and which, like other European economies, should be further prepared to absorb the consequences of the expected dangerous scenario, the third phase of the crisis resulting from the risky debts of companies from countries such as China, Brazil, Turkey and Russia. Finally, the European Commission has indicated that inflation in Poland will be 1.4% this year. The International Monetary Fund and the OECD have estimated this inflation at 1%. This is inflation lower than accepted by the Polish government - 1.7%. The National Bank of Poland also points out that inflation may develop at a level lower than that adopted in the draft budget law, but it is not able to indicate its estimated size. On the other hand, national analysts estimate this inflation at a median of 1.1%. In the explanatory memorandum of the draft budget law, the government points out that the expected increase in inflation will consist of the gradual expiry of supply shocks in the markets for energy raw materials and the acceleration of food price dynamics due to adverse agrometeorological conditions in 2015. Moreover, speeding up inflation will foster the emergence of demand pressures resulting from further growth in domestic demand, as well as the expected increase in inflation in the surroundings of the Polish economy. Returning to the assumptions adopted by the Polish government in the construction of this year's budget, it should be added that it is assumed that the situation on the labour market will improve in 2016. Average employment in the national economy is to be 9824 000. people and the unemployment rate recorded at the end of the period is expected to fall to 9.7%. According to recent forecasts, national analysts may even drop to 9%, according to the median. It is estimated that both salaries and pensions in the national economy and in the business sector will increase this year. The average gross wage in the national economy will increase by 3.6% and it will amount to PLN 4055. The expected valorisation of pensions should result in an increase in the average monthly pension amount by 2.2% in relation to the expected implementation of 2015, i.e. up to the level of almost PLN 2017 and the average agricultural pension up to PLN 1081 and the pension up to PLN 998. In the draft 2016 budget submitted to the Sejm, the government adopted revenue of nearly PLN 313.8 billion, i.e. 9.4% higher in relation to the expected implementation of 2015 At the same time, the forecast assumes a 7.2% increase in tax revenues. The increase in budget revenue will mainly be influenced by the macroeconomic factors previously identified and the effects resulting from systemic changes. The most important tax changes affecting the revenue of the state budget in 2016 will be among others.: introduction of a tax on certain financial institutions and a large-area store tax, amendment of the rules on the deduction of VAT on fuels purchased for passenger cars and other motor vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of 3.5 t, amendment of the exemption from registration by registering banks, change of the place of supply of services in respect of telecommunications, radio and television broadcasting services and electronically supplied to non-taxable persons, changes in the creation and conduct of pre-school work and pre-school work by employers, the introduction of regulations relating to the acquisition and marketing of pre-emptive letters, and a change in the possibility of access to the Polish gambling market to EU entities. In addition, the level of revenue of the state budget in 2016 will be positively affected by one-off payments resulting from the revenues declared by the auction participants for the frequency reservations in the range of 800 and 2600 MHz of PLN 9.2 billion and the dividend payments of almost PLN 4.8 billion and the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland of PLN 3.2 billion, as well as the proceeds from other non-tax revenues of almost PLN 23 billion. The revenue stream in 2016 will also be determined by the results of carrying out tasks aimed at increasing compliance with tax rules and improving the efficiency of the tax administration. In 2016, the share of municipalities in PIT tax revenues will be increased again compared to the previous year. This share will increase from 49.52% to 49.64%. State budget expenditure for 2016 was determined by the government on the basis of the so-called "state budget expenditure'. the expenditure rule contained in Article. 112aa Public Finance Act. According to it, an expenditure limit of PLN 368.5 billion was planned, i.e. an increase of PLN 31.8 billion. by 9,5% Compared to the level adopted in the revised 2015 Budget Act, the share of expenditure in GDP will be 19,5%. versus 18.7% in 2015 The draft budget law for 2016 provided for, among others,: funding of the 500+ family programme, which aims primarily at helping families raising children and combating demographic decline in Poland; introducing free medicines for people aged 75 years and over PLN 2 billion in salaries for workers groups that were covered by the so-called. freezing wages; one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensatory benefits; funding for restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector; raising national defence expenditure up to 2% GDP, i.e. about PLN 3 billion more than in 2015 (in comparable terms); funds for implementing the Family Benefits Act, the Law on Assistance to Persons with Child Support Rights, the Law on the fixing and payment of welfare benefits and the payment of pension and social security contributions, as well as the payment of health insurance contributions for persons receiving certain family benefits and welfare benefits; the financing of the development activities of local government units in their area of the Senior-WIGOR daily housing network; the implementation of the Government's study programme for outstanding students, aimed at supporting outstanding students in taking up training in foreign universities; the implementation of the "Safe+" programme, which includes among others. actions on cybersecurity and dissemination of fire safety knowledge; financing of regulations under the Law on Free Legal Aid; measures for subsidies to agricultural fuels. In addition, the draft budget provides funding for the continuation of tasks undertaken in previous years, including: Such as: increasing the availability of pre-school education, securing payments from the Fund Payments in connection with the implementation of the programme, family on its own and support for buyers of residential or single-family homes, living for young people, protecting the recipient of sensitive electricity, modernising infrastructure, including in particular road transport, financing the own tasks of local government units in the field of nutrition, securing funds for implementing the national programme against cancer for the years 2016-2024. In conclusion, it can also be added that the introduction of new sources of tax revenue in 2016 should be considered as part of the diversification of budgetary revenue, which, in view of the growing dependence of the state budget revenue on VAT revenue in recent years, allows for greater income stability under changing economic environment, and the planning of resources in special reserves for certain new expenditure is also a reasonable action in the context of unfinished legislative work. It gives the government time to adapt this expenditure to the real possibilities of the budget. In 2016, the deficit of the state budget is to be PLN 54,7 billion, to be 4.8 billion higher than in the revised 2015 budget law. Therefore, and in view of other circumstances related to the planned deficit of the European budget for PLN 9.2 billion and other loan needs of PLN 10.7 billion, the net lending needs of the State budget will amount to PLN 74.7 billion, i.e. will be 15,9 larger than after the planned implementation of 2015. According to the national methodology, public debt in 2015 is expected to amount to nearly PLN 925 billion, representing 49% GDP vs 49.1% GDP in 2015. Government assumes maintaining 49% Public debt-to-GDP ratio in 2017 and then reduced in the following years to 48.1% GDP in 2018 and 47,5% GDP in 2019. Public debt calculated according to EU methodology will amount to PLN 974.6 billion in 2016, i.e. will increase by around 46.4 million compared to last year and represent 51.6% GDP. In 2017, this relationship will deteriorate to 52.1% GDP, however, will be improved. In 2018, public debt is expected to amount to 51.6% GDP and 50.9% in 2019 GDP. To conclude this general introduction, it is worth noting that the 2016 draft budget is based on macroeconomic assumptions which do not raise any objections, although the forecasts of the various institutions regarding GDP growth, inflation, investment or public debt differ slightly. This is not a new phenomenon that should be particularly surprising, but it is always part of the analysis of the risk of good budget preparation and implementation. The 2016 budget will reflect the implementation of government priorities. It will provide funding for the basic functions of the state and will also be a fairer budget. The draft 2016 state budget submitted by the government will serve to maintain the sustainability of public finances and improve Poland's economic condition, as well as to promote Poland's external security and implementation of other priorities than those mentioned. It can testify to this, among others. that national defence expenditure exceeds 2% GDP projected this year and Poland will be one of the few countries, alongside the United States, Great Britain, France, Greece and Turkey, with high defence expenditure. There will continue to be large funding for other important expenditure, including infrastructure and science development. Thus, expenditure from various sources, including non-budgets, for financing of transport, which was planned for 2016, is to amount to PLN 34.6 billion, while expenditure on science, included with expenditure from the European budget and with the funds of the Polish Science and Technology Fund, is to reach the level of PLN 7.4 billion. The work of the Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget took place from 5 to 15 January this year. in accordance with the agreed timetable. At its meetings, the Commission considered its own budgetary parts and the opinions of other parliamentary committees in general terms, by order of the Marshal of the Sejm of 29 December. During the meetings of the committee, the opinions of the representatives of the budget committees, industry committees and members of the Committee on Public Finances on the sections of the budget considered were presented. Discussions were held, questions were asked, answers were given by a government representative and budget managers. In some cases, it was necessary to reply in writing. Members also received opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office. The Sejm committees submitted a total of 26 opinions to the Committee on Public Finance, with the vast majority of which did not raise any objections to the draft budget law by accepting government submissions. Two committees, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on National Defence made comments, while the amendments were tabled in nine opinions of the committee. At the same time, three separate opinions were attached to the opinion of the two committees. The National Defence Commission, in a positive assessment of the national defence budget of nearly PLN 35.9 billion, indicated, among other things, that the limit on defence expenditure was set in accordance with the statutory formula of these expenditures, i.e. 2% from the expected implementation of GDP of 2015, with a share of assets in defence expenditure of 28,7%. guarantees the implementation of the laws. As a result, the expenditure planned in the draft budget of the MON allows to increase the operational capacity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, the planned modernisation of military weapons and equipment, the fulfilment of declared commitments to NATO and the European Union, the carrying out of increases in salaries and salaries for soldiers and workers, the completion of the first stage of the formation of territorial defence units and the preparation and organisation of the NATO Summit in Warsaw. The Committee on Culture and Media, in a positive opinion on the part of the budget allocated to it, has negatively assessed the budget of the National Radio and Television Council. In order to justify this negative assessment at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the issue of the non-solving of late subscription fees was highlighted in particular. A total of 273 amendments were tabled to the Draft Budget Law for 2016, including two on text content. 92 amendments related to the revenue of the State budget and 177 related to the expenditure of the State budget. Two amendments concerned changes to the financial plan of the executive agencies. 16 amendments and three separate sentences were tabled by the committees and 254 amendments were tabled by Members of the Parliamentary Club PO. Of the 273 amendments tabled, seven amendments were accepted by the Committee on Public Finance. Three amendments were withdrawn on the day of voting on the committee. General characteristics of the amendments adopted. In the context of the amendments adopted, it should be pointed out that the Committee on Public Finance has adopted a parliamentary amendment on the increase of corporate income income by PLN 20 million in order to finance expenditure in the newly created reserve under heading 84. The Commission accepted the parliamentary amendment on the reduction of the expenditure of the Constitutional Tribunal for the amount of PLN 3.3 million intended for salary increases with employee income from universal courts. The acceptance of the Committee on Public Finance was subject to an amendment concerning the transfer of expenditure in the budget of 220 000. PLN from foreign missions for international activities and national missions. This was the amendment proposed by the Commission for State Control. The Commission accepted the Parliamentary amendment on the reduction in part 42: Internal affairs of the current expenditure of the police voivodship headquarters by PLN 3.5 million and increase by this amount the expenditure of voluntary firefighters in the field of special-purpose subsidies for financing or financing tasks commissioned for the implementation of associations. The Committee on Public Finance has adopted a Commission amendment to change the name of the special-purpose reserve under heading 77 for measures to implement the Law on State aid for the raising of children and funds for the financing of the parental allowance referred to in the Act on support for family and foster care. The Commission also accepted the parliamentary amendment concerning the transfer in the budget of the Małopolska voivodship of budget expenditure from the voivodship offices for the purpose of increasing the current expenditure of the various institutions. The Commission accepted the parliamentary amendment to the text section, to Article. 40, indicating that the budget law shall enter into force on the date of its publication, with effect from 1 January 2016. In short, the amendments adopted by the Committee on Public Finance, first of all, should be pointed out that these are not amendments which would significantly alter the draft budget submitted by the government. Overall, the revenue and expenditure of the state budget increased by PLN 20 million, i.e. by 0.01% , leaving the budgetary deficit unchanged. The Commission did not accept 263 amendments, the vast majority of which, as 214, were once again tabled as minority proposals. These were mainly parliamentary amendments aimed at financing investments of different nature, e.g. construction of roads, bypasses, hospitals, by increasing revenue or reducing expenditure provided for, inter alia, to support the Treasury's debt and to co-finance projects carried out with European funds. The Commission did not accept these amendments and separate sentences which did not indicate the source of coverage for the proposed increases in expenditure, nor the amendments which raised doubts about the representative of the Government and the Legislative Office, nor amendments which were not sufficiently precise, nor amendments which the members of the Committee on Public Finance were not convinced of, given the previous explanations of the budget managers and the representative of the Government. The Committee on Public Finances, after considering the draft budget law for 2016, together with the positions forwarded by the competent committees and having received an opinion on compliance with European Union law, requests the adoption of the attached draft law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u9	Thank you, sir. The Sejm established in the discussion on this item the allocation of time between clubs, depending on their size, between 117 and 12 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Jaworski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Maurice Hubert Stans, a high-ranking American official, trade secretary and accountant, was to say that the development of the state budget was an art of even disappointing. Part of him was right. Always someone will be more or less dissatisfied, there will always be someone who is able to identify other, according to him better solutions, and there will always be lack of means to meet the expectations of everyone. In the case of this budget, this saying fortunately does not apply. As I said in my previous speech just now, the 2016 budget will provide funding for all the basic functions of the state. However, this is an exceptional budget for the last eight years. It will be a budget based on the principle of solidarity and justice, as its aim is to protect the poorest social groups not only through the valorisation of pensions or the increase of pre-frozen wages, but above all through the extensive funding of family policies. The draft budget law for 2016 provided for, among others,: funding of the 500+ family programme, which aims primarily at helping families raising children and combating demographic decline in Poland - more than PLN 17 billion; introducing free medicines for people aged 75 years and over PLN 2 billion in salaries for workers groups that were covered by the so-called. freezing wages; one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and persons receiving pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensatory benefits - almost PLN 1.5 billion; funding for restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector in the amount of almost PLN 1 billion; raising national defence expenditure to 2% GDP, i.e. about PLN 3 billion more than in 2015; means for implementing the Family Benefits Act - more than PLN 10 billion; funding for the development activities of local government units on their territory networks of daily Senior-WIGOR houses; implementation of the government programme for outstanding students in education at foreign universities; implementation of the "Safe+" programme, including the "Safe+" programme. actions relating to cybersecurity and the dissemination of knowledge on fire safety; the financing of legislation on free legal aid and measures for subsidies on agricultural fuels. Ladies and gentlemen, I have started with a quote and I would like to conclude with a quote. Walter Bagehot, British economist, political scientist, editor of the Economist and influential journalist, said that the greatest pleasure in life is to do something that people say is impossible. The Prime Minister has proved that the electoral promises can and must be fulfilled, no matter how the opposition, that the unfavorable media then screamed that this was impossible. These promises are written in this budget. These promises will be fulfilled. Prime Minister, we can do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u11	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Sławomir Neumann, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing the budget law today, but we really should discuss the whole economy. This budget is also part of the strength of the Polish economy, the revenue that then flows into this budget from this economy. The Civic Platform, as I said at the first reading of the budget law, left the budget and the economy in very good condition. You described this yourself in your draft budget bill, in the explanatory memorandum. This good economy left by us has also been appreciated by the Deputy Prime Minister of your government, Mr Morawiecki, who in response to the downgrade of the rating by Standard & Poor.s spoke in one of the programs: I think low unemployment is a very strong factor. A stable economy, a very low current account deficit, which we have - this year may not be at all or will be at a minimum - very strong Polish exports, growing investments, waiting around the corner tens of billions of euros to be spent from the perspective of the EU and our investments from various projects is a really good prospect for a few years. This is another proof that the Platform has left you the economy and the budget in good condition. You're confirming it. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, you've started to spoil the country. You started ruining the country because you don't understand the economy. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] You don't understand the rules that govern the world economy today. [[Applause]] You thought that you could break the foundations of a democratic state, that you could break the fundamentals of the rule of law and the credibility of the state as such, and that would not affect the economy. You don't know the economy, you don't know the economy, and today we have the first results. These first effects are the loss of credibility by Poland, not only as a country where the constitution is respected, where the fundamental principles of the democratic state are respected, but also as a country where money can be invested safely. We are losing this credibility, we are losing it and this proof of the loss of Polish credibility are opinions or ratings given by credit rating agencies. I know that you do not trust any agencies, you believe that either any agency is being sponsored, or that the agency has bad intentions for Poland, and that is a sufficient argument not to take this into account. But today the lack of this credibility as a country that cares about the stability of the law - about the stability of the law - affects foreign investments in Poland, reflects the costs that we bear in connection with the crisis at the Polish currency courses. The weak zloty results in an absolute increase in the cost of servicing foreign debt. I will not mention that the rating introduced by Standard & Poor.s hit Polish zloty - a rating that you don't respect, because it is a credit rating agency that had a certain history, and that is your main argument that it is not worth talking about... But this rating caused the borrowers who have loans in francs to pay or have larger loans by PLN 3 billion, because the Polish zloty was weakened. This is the real cost of your actions in the pockets of borrowers who took loans in francs. And all the help you want to give together to people who have loans in francs will have nothing to do with it if you continue to spoil the state, because this credibility will continue to be undermined. Unfortunately, this is something that can't be stopped if you act like this. Today you are not hitting the economy with any laws. You hit the foundations of the rule of law and that's already affected the economy. I know you don't understand, I know these are separate worlds for you... [[Don't insult me, sir.]] ...but today in the world, the combination of politics and the economy is on a short chain. That's how it works, and you've got to figure it out. We cannot fail to care about Polish credibility at every level. You are introducing a new spending rule that reduces the credibility of public finances. Another credit rating agency, Moodys, talks about this, which has not yet lowered our rating, but says that there is a negative perspective for him because you hit the spending rule that kept budget spending. These are important things for the future. As long as you can close this budget, next year's budget will be a budget with a deficit of more than 5%. GDP. This will put us on the censored European Commission. In a country that has a good economy left behind, in Poland, which has a growth rate of 3% , over 3.8% GDP, instead of reducing the deficit, you're increasing it. You're increasing it when there's no crisis, when there's growth, you're increasing the deficit. It's illogical, it's contrary to basic principles, to the art of economics. What happened will have implications next year. A budget of less than 3% cannot be created GDP. It can't be done. We will be blacklisted by the European Commission, we will be in an excessive deficit procedure and we will pay more for our debt. More than 1% The costs have increased in terms of our bonds and tax papers, in your governments, thanks to your actions, by 1%. This is the cost set aside for the future, about 10 billion extra costs per year. You don't have funding for this, you don't have it in your income. You are charging future budgets with additional costs for your unreasonable policies. That's something worth talking about. And it's worth remembering today that we're warning you. The platform wants to help you, it wants to improve this budget, Minister. We want to help you because we know you can't do it alone. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] That is why we want to make amendments and we will make amendments to reduce the deficit above all. We know from information already actually widely reported that the profit of the National Bank of Poland will be higher than the assumed PLN 3.2 billion and this will be a profit exceeding PLN 8 billion. We will make an amendment which will reduce the budget deficit by PLN 5 billion. We want you to support this amendment. Increased influences from NBP cannot be eaten, cannot be eaten. It must be a reduction in the deficit. [[Applause]] This is an investment next year for you and Poland. We want to help you with that. We also want to restore an in vitro programme deleted in the budget of the Ministry of Health. As a club, we'll make an amendment to this. We will also make an amendment related to the continuation of the programme, the residence for young people, which has been accepted and gives many young families a chance to live, and which you want to close, to eliminate. We will also make this amendment. We will also make an amendment related to the support of medical rescuers regarding the increase in their salaries. It was the money they were promised - PLN 100 million in the budget planned by the Civic Platform. The nurses got raises, and this year we were supposed to give raises to the paramedics. This 100 million PLN, we want to restore this 100 million PLN to the budget. This amendment will also be tabled by the Civic Platform. The details of our next comments to this budget will be told by my fellow Members in the following speeches. Mr. Marshal, I'm handing these amendments over on behalf of the Platform Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz Poselski Club15 will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u14	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! The Prime Minister isn't here. Dear Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I would like to present our position on the budget law. At the beginning of my speech as a Polish industrialist, I want to say that I feel - unfortunately I must emphasize it with all my power - betrayed, simply betrayed by you. [[Something like that...]] One of the pillars of the Polish state is hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs, who practically create the budget in its entirety. Only a crowd of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs contribute more than 70% to the state budget GDP. It would be expected that economic thinking should be based on the fact that, since there is no money in the budget, Polish entrepreneurship needs to be improved through the maximum simplification of economic law, while we are dealing with a situation in which, in fact, this situation is irrational. I want to ask: Where are the promised reductions in CIT and VAT? Where is the treatment of entrepreneurs as partners? There's not a word in the budget. Tax pressure always has the same effect: less tax revenue. This was the case every time the excise duty was raised when taxes were raised. There's just a limit, a deadline that can't be crossed. Instead of lowering, you increase. Meanwhile, the budget introduces new tax burdens by employing thousands of new officials. Now we know why, when you created new ministries to answer our questions evasively, the rapporteur acted as if he did not know the answer. The answer was one: thousands of new officials, i.e. - it must be made clear - tax consumers. From January 1st, ladies and gentlemen, quietly, you're raising ZUS charges. As if that were not enough, you are announcing thorough and effective checks, checks of entrepreneurship, not offices. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that Kukiz15 seeks to reform economic law by abolishing CIT and introducing income tax for all. But what I'm trying to say here is, in return, let it sound out loud. In return, it means that not a new tax, but another tax, a fairer, more mandatory, not involving thousands of officials, offices, declarations, checks and ensuring, what is most important today, the peaceful dreams of entrepreneurs. Kukiz.15 disagrees with the country, which is incredibly expensive, generating more than PLN 55 billion in deficit. That's not what we're authorized to do. The budget is to be a balanced budget. There's no consent to our country's debt. The absolute ban on debt of Poles should be enshrined in the Constitution. We should have a guarantee that any authority will rule, that the sovereign debt is prohibited, because a trillion zlotys left behind by the Civic Platform, we will pay for generations, and that will be enough. How, in your simple sense, do you want to help your own family that is in debt? By taking new loans? Since when is it that simple? It's just crazy. You have to come to your senses. Enough debt to the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Petru, the Modern Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to know who of you is the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Are they even like that? They're here. Thank you very much, because we would like to be aware that someone is listening to us. [[Voice from the hall: All of Poland.]] Mr Jakubiak finally said that he had been betrayed. Mr President, I agree with what you have said, both in terms of a balanced budget, about the fact that taxes should not be added and about the fact that, instead of facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs, they are being made more difficult for them, just draw the consequences. You'll be betrayed every moment. I welcome your speech today, Mr President, but I urge you not to make any more mistakes because you will be betrayed by them every time. This is very important because the opposition must be unambiguous in these matters and cannot be deceived by various kinds of mirages. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget plan is a government action plan, as Mr Jaworski said, which is not in the Chamber either. This is a demonstration of how you want to manage the Polish economy. And unfortunately I am sorry to say that you prove every day that you cannot manage the Polish economy, you do not understand how it works. The finance minister who isn't here promised that if he introduced a bank customer tax, the margins wouldn't increase, so the interest wouldn't increase. What's the effect? Ladies and gentlemen, today, whoever takes a new loan, thanks to the tax that introduces the PiS, will pay an average of PLN 1500 more interest. Is this a good change? [[Voice from the room: For Poland.]] Is it a good change that Polish entrepreneurs and Polish borrowers pay PLN 1,500 a year more? Who doesn't pay more? International corporations because they're borrowing loans from foreign banks. Thank you for such a good change. You want to tax those who shop - those who shop. You will force Polish farmers to sell their products to shops even cheaper. [[Voice from the hall: These are still Polish shops.]] You will force Polish farmers to sell even cheaper, because someone has to pay for this tax. Customers will pay, usually those who shop most often, which is often the poorest people. The government doesn't shop in stores, President Kaczyński doesn't shop in stores either. Poles will pay for your taxes, for your ideas, Polish farmers. You have to understand how this works. You don't understand. Is this the good change? Ladies and gentlemen! Not only are you putting new taxes on Poland and Poles, you are also increasing the deficit. Mr Neumann was kind to say that the Platform had left the budget in good condition. No, because she left the budgetary situation with the greatest possible deficit and the debt close to the thresholds, but you are still increasing this deficit. After all, this is extremely irresponsible, this is extremely irresponsible. What's more, you know you don't have any money for any more shows. You don't have money to cut CIT to 15%. Which we will report shortly, because we want to remind you that there are things we can support. You don't want to report it, we'll report it. You don't have any money for a higher tax-free amount. You're cheating on Poles, talking about a good change, and this is a lying change. Ladies and gentlemen! I have a proposal for you that may cause Poland not to fall into debt spirals. This is the 5-point plan I've put forward. Its main axis is the Sustainable Budget Act. I am counting on Kukiz to support it, in line with the statement by Mr Jakubiak. We filed that bill last week. She's just saying that the deficit has to be balanced. I'll explain. During periods of economic slowdown there may be a deficit, in periods of prosperity there must be a surplus so that the average deficit is balanced so that the budget is balanced. Support this law, it is safe for you and for future generations. That's the foundation so you don't let us go with the bags so we don't fall into the debt spiral. Point two. These are my advice to the government. Unfortunately, there is no Prime Minister. It would really help to bring this in, because it's for our common security, for our common security. Propose and show the revenue plan for 4 years and the expenditure plan for 4 years, the expenditure plan and the revenue plan, so that we know when you want to make specific changes. Show me that you have income. [[You know it's impossible.]] Mr Jaworski reminded us that this will be financed, the 500+ programme, from auction to mobile frequency, but this is one-off money. [[Only this year.]] You don't have the money for this show for 2017 and you're cheating that you have the money. [[We know where they are.]] You don't have them. Show revenue, expenditure plan and revenue plan for the next four years. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Relax, Mr.]] [[You're full of shit.]] What's more, I have a request for you to hold off on making any laws you don't have any cover for. In this way, communism led to the fact that in 1981. Poland went bankrupt. Don't go that way. Fourthly, I call on you to guarantee, declare, and expect the declaration from the President that the National Bank of Poland will be independent and you will not use it to finance the Polish economy that you will not print money. I ask for such a declaration, it does not cost anything as long as you really intend to do so, and I have serious concerns that if you want to implement all these ideas, you will jump to NBP, jump to NBP and finance with printed money, for which we will all pay as Poles in the form of higher inflation or bankrupt enterprises. And the last thing is such an appeal to reason. Listen, if you have any ideas, count them first, then report them. There's nothing worse than throwing brilliant ideas at the wind without counting the cost, because then others count it and it turns out it's not 50 billion a year, that's 100 billion a year of all your ideas. I know you're not gonna make it all happen. You also know that, but you are creating signals to Poles that it might be a good idea, and this opposition is blocking. The opposition isn't blocking anything, we just want you to restore constitutional order so that the President can appoint three elected judges under the law. I'm glad the president... [[You have nothing else to offer, just a tribunal.]] I am glad that the steadfast President Andrzej Duda is beginning to break. That's very good, because he's aware of what a constitution is. Take these advices into account. I know you're not listening. I saw the minister... I told you the bank tax would put this on customers. You didn't believe it, it happened. Listen to the others, we don't always have to agree... [[What's wrong?]] Instead of yelling, listen. I'm talking now, and then, when I'm done, you're gonna talk. You have an hour and a half talking, and I only have 17 minutes and someone else is gonna perform. [[There's nothing to listen to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u17	Mr President, please do not disturb the presenter. [[Voice from the room: Do not provoke.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u18	I'm done. God bless you. You can count on Marshal Terletki's reasonableness, and thank you very much. [[But only on him.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't know anything about this, let us make a change of watch instead of a good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u19	Thank you. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft budget law according to prints No 146 and No 194. The draft 2016 budget submitted by the Commission is based on the good foundations of public finances and the economy that the current government received after the elections last autumn. The descriptive part of the budget contains many statements stressing that Poland is, was positively perceived by foreign investors, positively assessed by rating agencies, and the economic development of Poland significantly accelerated and amounted to 1,7% in 2013. GDP in 2014 3.4%. The same was planned for the autumn of this year. Turns out it was better, it was 3.6%. The 2016 plan is 3.8% GDP. A few months was enough to make this assessment obsolete and inadequate with regard to the budget submitted. The most often adopted at night by the governing party of numerous laws, without the necessary opinions, assessments or calculations, contrary to the principles of the Constitution, democracy and freedom, decided that the 2016 budget assessment could not be positive, but on the contrary: this budget is controversial and extremely risky. We just stopped being credible as a country. The loose spending rule, the manipulated 2015 budget increasing the budget deficit last year by 3.6 billion and the planned increase in the deficit for the current year by another 4.76 billion result in an increase in public debt, which is very badly perceived by investors, financial markets and credit rating agencies. By increasing the deficit by 31 December 2016 to PLN 54 740 million, the public debt increases to PLN 924 billion, and the cost of handling this debt increases more than proportionally and the overall financial risk increases. Many analyzes today that this period of several months of PiS government costs us, Poles, even several hundred million zlotys. With regard to the numerous pre-election promises of the PiS, the budget of the current year includes a total of 17 billion for the financing of the 500+ family programme and the introduction of free medicines for people aged 75 years and over. However, the draft budget does not take into account the promised increase in the tax-free amount. This is quite important, and not because of the promises of the PiS, but because this concerns the issue raised in the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Court points out that the tax-free amount set below the cost of existence is unlawful. Quite a characteristic feature of the budget is relatively high expenditure on the social sphere. In addition to the already mentioned free medicines for people aged 75 or over, the 500+ family programme is secured by the resources for the tasks adopted by the previous government. These tasks include: an increase of more than 2 billion wages frozen since 2010, 1.4 billion as a means of one-off cash allowances for pensioners and family benefits, including a mechanism for goldsmiths and so-called "golden" schemes. mowers, that is parental benefit paid to mothers who gave birth to children who are unemployed, students, farmers, paid for a period of 12 months in the amount of PLN 1000, program concerning the Large Family Card, measures for kindergartens and nursery, funds for the Senior-WIGOR programme. The nature of the draft state budget is that these increased social expenditures are assumed to be covered by new taxes and one-off non-tax revenues. Total non-tax revenue is an important budget item and amounts to PLN 35 930 million, which means more than a 30% increase compared to the projected implementation in 2015. This amount includes one-off payments artificially transferred from the previous year from the sales of the frequency in the amount of PLN 9233 million, as well as payments from the profit of the National Bank of Poland at the amount of PLN 3200 million currently planned and announced by the President of the National Bank of Poland in the amount much higher. These are payments which have not been made in previous years' budgets, and it should also be anticipated that they will not be repeated in the following years. Hence the very disturbing question: What will be the coverage of fixed social expenses in the coming years? Tax revenue in 2016 will amount to PLN 276 120 million, i.e. 7.2% nominally more than expected performance in 2015 The biggest position of tax revenue is the tax on goods and services, because as much as 128 683 million PLN, and is higher than the planned execution of last year by more than 7300 million PLN. This is a large amount and we estimate that VAT receipts have simply been overestimated despite ambitious plans to increase its collection. Large controversy in the public opinion raises new taxes, including the tax already adopted by the High House on certain financial institutions, called short-term banking tax, planned at the amount of PLN 5500 million, and the tax, let's call it a store whose rules of detailed operation are not yet known, at the level of PLN 2 billion. There is a high risk that these taxes will increase the cost of banking and other financial institutions and generally increase prices. So it's going to be a transfer of citizens' money from one pocket to another. The Club of the Polish People's Party makes several amendments to the budget to cover the necessary expenses. I would like to draw attention to some of them. One amendment concerns an increase in the income from the profit of the NBP by PLN 300 million for the municipal and district road infrastructure development programme. The demand of local authorities for these measures is very high. In my voivodship, Lublin voivodship, local governments have submitted more than 100 applications for PLN 121 million and the voivodship has a total of PLN 30 million, so four times the demand than the available funds, and it is important to remember that local authorities have already incurred the costs of preparing documentation and building permits or developing road infrastructure. We also ask for an increase in the income item from the NBP's profit by PLN 300 million in order to increase the resources of the Material Reserve Agency. We would like to request an increase in the provisions for pig live, milk and its products. The long-standing embargo on these products has already caused a dangerous fall in prices, which has already lasted for several months and threatens the departments of this agricultural production. Other amendments concern the strengthening of border crossing points, today so important at the moment of the refugee and emigrants problem, the strengthening of voluntary firefighters, the increase in funds even for the increase in VAT. These are the first units to be rescued and aided to the population. We also make an amendment on the elimination of the effects of natural disasters, because the values contained in the budget are very small. Several amendments concern regional investment, including inter alia. a very important investment - completing the construction of the Lublin Land Oncology Centre for the amount of PLN 20 million, an investment which is so much needed in a time when practically cancer has become an epidemic. I am submitting all these amendments to the Marshal and the High House today and I would like to ask for them to be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u21	Thank you very much, Member. Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! When I hear about people who know about the economy here, they just drop their hands, and I couldn't turn those pages over right now. [[Cell phone sound]] Excuse me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: The President is on the phone.]] [[They say you didn't really speak professor.]] [[Because they don't really know what to say.]] [[Voice from the room: The President is on the phone.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, We have to turn them off so they don't bother us. [[The voice from the room: The president so tossed...]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[The economy's ringing.]] Yes, I'm sure, ladies and gentlemen, it's... [[Fear.]] ...those who are terrified of what they hear from the state. Those who know about the economy, I would like to ask you whether you know that Poland's place according to such statistics, the share of employment costs in gross domestic product, i.e. the number that tells how much society, how many citizens get from what is produced, how much is the share of employment costs in gross domestic product in Poland. Well, on such a long list of countries Poland is sixth from the end, followed by Cyprus, Romania, India and Mexico. This indicator is 37.4, while in 2010 it was 37.9, so it fell. Those who know about the economy have led to such a state. Of course, in the first place is Switzerland, there are the United States, France and have an indicator about... Switzerland has almost 60% as far as this indicator is concerned, most countries have about 50% Poland is 37.9. So you leave so little to people, and that's what this social element and support for 500+ families is for, to improve the situation of families that get very little money. The economy grew a little, grew a little, but what was left to people was less and less, which could also promote development through a demand-driven stimulus to economic development. The second such interesting number: gross domestic product according to purchasing power parity per head, per capita - we are in a distant place. [[And in 2007? Which place?]] In 2014, we are in a distant place, behind Russia, Minister, behind Russia. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And in 2007, where were we?]] For Russia - from 24 872, and Russia has 25 thousand. On your head, per capita. [[And in 2007?]] [[Now that's gonna change.]] We are in favour of Greece, and of course we are in favour of Greece too, followed by Croatia, Romania, Turkey, Belarus, etc. But it has to be said that it is still in 2005. Russia was behind Poland, and now we are behind Russia. These are the effects of the work of those who know about the economy. Relation of exports of goods and services to GDP. Minister, you know the economy, tell me, it is Poland and, let's say, a country like Germany, which has a higher share of GDP exports, Germany or Poland. I will not torment you, Poland has a higher export rate compared to GDP than Germany, so that this is clear. And it's 47,4 and Germany is 45,7. [[What does that mean?]] [[We do not produce Polish cars.]] So we, with a relatively high rate of export share in GDP, unfortunately, have poor growth and a very low standard of living. I'm not even talking about what's even in today's press... [[Voice from the room: 70%.]] ...that Polish pensioners are the poorest in Europe, the poorest in Europe. I'm still looking, I'm sorry, but I can't see China here. As far as China is concerned, what is the export share rate in China? Everyone thinks that very big, no, smaller than in Poland - 26,2 , and Poland has 47,4. Which country is growing faster? We should develop quickly thanks to export stimulus. [[There's no ZUS, there's no pension insurance. What are you saying?]] No, we are not developing because the fruits of these export revenues are being transferred from Poland. That's what those who know about the economy have led to. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Those who know the economy. We have heard about this debt, deficit, here the opinions are divided, but in any case Poland is also here, ladies and gentlemen, in a relatively distant, further place in fact: 50,4 in terms of the share of debt in gross domestic product. Previously, the share of debt was 46,7 in 2005, this share of debt in GDP has increased, we all know that, so I will not develop this topic very much. But you also need to know that Spain has 99.3 , France has 88,2 , UK 85.1 etc. So the claim that this rating of Poland is something that reflects anything is simply not serious, because this rating is, as you know, everyone knows it, provoked for political purposes and secret is who drove there to this Standard & Poor.s and this, ladies and gentlemen, has been filming this business. [[The voice from the hall: It is not true, it is a lie.]] [[Shame.]] That's what the people who know about the economy say. [[Is it that good or that bad? What's it like?]] [[He's gone.]] Ladies and gentlemen, those who do not know the economy - it is a pity that Mr Petru has left - they say that not deficit, but surplus, which means that the state is to take more from citizens than to give it back to them, because I remind you that deficit means... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Pay your debts, Mr Hennig-Kloska. Pay your debts.]] ...that the state, through its budget, gives its expenditures to the public and, by means of revenue, takes the public to finance, of course, not its own needs, the state, but the needs of society in the budgetary sphere, in the budgetary sphere, so that this is clear. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But if you ever...]] Well, the surplus, ma'am, we'll talk about it at the seminar, we can do it for ourselves, and I'll teach you something.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u23	Please do not discuss this during Members' speeches. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u24	You just don't know the economy, just like Mr. Petru doesn't know the economy very well. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Ha, ha, ha...]] The surplus, ladies and gentlemen, to mean that the state takes more than it gives to society. Nonsense complete. [[That means you don't know the fundamental economic rights.]] He takes more in the form of taxes than he pays in the form of his expenses. You want that kind of economic nonsense? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You have to pay your debts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u25	Members of the jury, please do not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u26	You want economic nonsense? But if you want to balance the budget, I wanted to ask. The deficit-to-GDP ratio is 2.9% It is in line with the Maastricht Treaty standards below 3%, so please do not tell us that the Law and Justice in this budget somehow specifically indebted to us. But if you want Mr. Petru to balance it, some have said so, then I ask you: the budget deficit is 17.4%. Budget revenue and 14,9% budgetary expenditure. So I'm asking if you want almost 15%. reduce budget spending to balance it out? You want 15%. reduce budget expenditure, right? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Not to pay his debts.]] No, don't tell me anything stupid, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u27	Please do not discuss this with the Members in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u28	The state's debt to its own citizens is also the income of these citizens, the property of these citizens. Well, you can't not know such basic things.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u29	Mr. Professor...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u30	The problem is different. The problem is that you've been in debt abroad. That's the problem. Just as the franchise in some sense owed themselves abroad, those who were drawn into franchise loans. This is debt abroad, which is the dependence of your debt on the exchange rate, strictly speaking - franc. Similarly, sovereign debt abroad is dependent on the exchange rate. And that's the problem, not the debt itself as such. Debt to its own citizens is not a problem. Many countries know this, such as Japan. Debt is at the same time the property of those who have government bonds, and it is collapsing, and it can normally function within the country. The problem is debt abroad. That is the problem, and that is that you, unfortunately, have perverted too much. [[Member Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Let's pay off foreign debts.]] Minister Rostowski was very lenient with those who took... At the same time, about 100 billion were transferred from Poland last year. Anyone can read the balance of payments of the State. There are also some problems with balance of payments statistics, but I will not develop this topic. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a problem with spending. These expenses - as much as possible by the Civic Platform - are well-designed. Mr Jaworski spoke about this, and I will not develop this subject, but I would remind you that the budget has two sides: expenditure and revenue. The error of the expenditure rule, Mr President - and that is why it is economic nonsense - is that it is forgotten that the budget has two sides: revenue and expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, an interesting conference was held at the University of Warsaw last Friday. The creation and application of the law on goods and services tax and excise duty in order to combat mass fraud and organised tax crime. What happens in Poland on an extraordinary scale: tax crime, extortion of refunds, non-payment of VAT, empty invoices, fictitious entities - one citizen can have 300 fictional entities in order to create some chain of fraud - not paying tax, etc., is estimated at up to PLN 40.60 billion. Here I will quote one of the testimonials who said this: Specific tax laws - created with the participation of lobbyists - are designed to put certain groups of taxpayers in a privileged position compared to others. This is a very harmful measure, in particular due to a significant reduction in the authority of tax law among taxpayers and of course to a reduction in tax revenue. There's a lot of interesting stuff here. Of course, there is no time, nor is it the right place to refer this subject at this point, but that is the problem. We need to improve the income side, and I hope the government is working on it now, because it's not that simple. In the economy it is easy to spoil, e.g. in the field of tax law, and repairs take time. [[Applause]] [[Oh, it's true.]] This requires time, specific actions. [[You're ruining it now.]] As a professor of economics, unfortunately, I have to address certain things. Here it was said, we still hear about it: eliminate CIT, PIT and introduce income tax. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, With all the sympathy, because Mr. Jakubiak is producing an excellent beer... As soon as they spilled it out there, I went to buy it and try it. And I praise them very much, I say it in public. I mean, it's not, of course, an advertisement... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[What do you mean? What do you mean?]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's just a desire... It's not advertising, it's wanting to give a man some justice. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is such a thing as the profitability of turnover. We always pay taxes on income. Some people don't realize it. We give away part of the revenue because the budget is distribution of revenue. We take income from citizens and give it away in the form of expenditure, and the state gives it away in the form of expenditure, implementing public goods. And what's the problem? Don't talk about taxing revenue. The profitability rate of gross turnover is very different in the economy, both in periods and in branches. For example, in retail trade, ladies and gentlemen, between January and December 2014, on average, 1.5%. [[Exactly.]] On average, there were those who had fewer, and there were those who had more. This concept assumes a certain progression: for the little ones - little, and for the larger ones there will be more. Progression. It kind of breaks down over time, because it's an average of 1.5%. , but, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. From January to March it was 0.2%, right, because it was a bit worse. There are economic sectors where the profitability of this turnover is e.g. 8,5% , and there are also those that have 6% the profitability of turnover. This is a very diverse indicator, but the profitability of turnover... I mean, it's turnover, it's sales revenue, but there's also the costs that you bear because the goods are sold, but you have to buy it from a wholesaler or a producer. And it costs, you have to pay the employees, etc. As a result, this profitability, this income that will be taxed, is often small, right, especially in these small shops. In large companies, it is supposed to be larger. And that's the problem. This needs to be considered and this will be considered. There is a debate, a discussion on how to do this? Because, as we know, stores, multinational companies are doing business, which is that costs are being transferred. No profit is shown and part of the cost is deliberately increased to transfer these costs abroad via foreign entities, etc. That's the whole point. If we do not improve this income side, it will, of course, be a problem, but the government is working precisely to improve the income side of this budget. Finally, I have to say a few words about the amendments, because here one Member spoke about the amendments. Well, there's a problem with the amendments. I even have an idea. Maybe we should discuss it. There's this - 1% the budget e.g. cities for the benefit of the inhabitants. The villagers decide 1%. Perhaps Members should decide on 1% the budget to have on those amendments they'd like to make. [[We'll split it into groups.]] Why am I talking about this? Because some of these amendments were just funny, to say the least. Why were they funny? Because someone put it this way - you have to give the source of funding for this expenditure proposal, right - the increase in VAT revenue, for this reason the increase in VAT revenue will be... You can't do that. As he wants to increase his VAT income, that is, let him spend it himself or a group of several Members spend enough through his consumption expenses to increase this VAT in the income of the State. [[Applause]] [[But you did it on a macro scale.]] Yeah, of course, you're right, yeah, that's the problem, 'cause I'm a little trivial around here, too, but these adjustments are trivial, aren't they? Or somebody out there says, "I'm gonna increase my CIT income." [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u31	Don't bother him, you'll be reading your speech in no time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u32	This means that the Member has a company that will increase his CIT tax and by increasing his CIT it will be possible to finance some proposed expenditure. So maybe it's just a thought to change the method of budgeting and make 1%. a budget for amendments which, in some agreement, Members would contribute to regional objectives in an invitation to tender. Maybe, but it's a matter of the future, because for now, the procedure doesn't make it possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important matter. This budget is simply a good budget within the scope of the possibility, it supports the demand side of the economy and, of course, we are asking, as Mr Jaworski has already said, to adopt this budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Professor, you, an outstanding professor of economics, certainly know that the integrity of a scientist does not want to quote statistics selectively, and you quoted them selectively. As far as public debt is concerned, I will repeat why you continue to deny: Poland belongs to those European countries that have the lowest public debt in relation to GDP. [[Applause]] But there are also countries that have a budget surplus, and it's not that nonsense. It happens to Germany, it happens in Sweden. It would be wonderful if it happened in Poland, because we could pay our debts, but it is simply unrealistic, so the discussion about the surplus budget in Poland is a theoretical discussion so far. When I first read the budget, I said I was calm about the 2016 budget, because this is our budget, safe, stable. You added 9 billion from 2015. We were all convinced that 2016 was a very safe year, but it was too optimistic, because it turns out that Minister Shamacha, who... I even understand why he's not here. I guess if I were the finance minister, I wouldn't want to sit at the second reading of the budget either, because Minister Shamacha behaves like he's fighting for the world championship in the spoils of public finances. And I'm afraid he's gonna win this competition. [[Applause]] Between the first and second reading of the budget, four weeks, the finance minister, the PiS government, the majority of the Sejm, you made so many bad decisions that today we are discussing in completely different economic realities. We have a reduced rating of Poland and whatever the professor or other representatives of Law and Justice would say about ratings, these are their consequences. A reduced rating, in addition with a negative perspective, means that another may be even lower, and if it is even lower, then there will be investors who will not buy Polish bonds at all. The consequence of this lower rating, ignored by your professor, is that the zloty is weak, the profitability of Polish ten-year bonds is higher, and more needs to be paid for insurance of Polish debt in the event of the insolvency of the Polish government. What does that mean? That the Polish taxpayer for service of public debt in 2016 will pay more. And it's not like you're saying that only one agency lowered its rating because yesterday we read the announcement of another agency, Moodys, which says this: The Agency raised the forecast of the deficit of the Polish public finance sector in 2015 from 2,7% up to 3.2% , and in 2016 - up to 3,1% against the assumed 2,3%. And that was an assumed real deficit, provided you continued our financial policy. This is one sentence for Mr Richard Petru. Everyone from this lecturer is teaching, you are a professor of economics constantly teaching us something, Richard Petru as an outstanding economic guru still teaches us something. I would also like to teach Mr Richard Petru a few things, which, of course, is on TV, but if he comes, he might read a transcript. [[We'll pass it on.]] Well, Mr Petru, there is no need for an orthodox bill on a balanced budget, which is a harmful act or would be harmful to the economy of Poland, because it is enough to continue the financial policy of the Civic Platform. [[There's not much left at OFE.]] Enough to reach the medium-term objective of 1% GDP. [[The ownership of OFE was orthodox.]] And what I would like to teach Mr Petru - who is a young parliamentarian and may not know some things - is that your 5-point plan for Poland's recovery would be a good plan and we would agree on it, with one exception, which I am talking about, because you do not understand that the deficit is not only a budget deficit, but it is a deficit of the entire public finance sector, while your four points, which Mr Petru announced with the face of the Polish saviors, are points that are already in the Constitution and are in the laws adopted by the Government of the Civic Platform. [[You didn't have to take OFE out.]] We have the Multiannual Financial Plan of the State, it covers four years, exactly as you wish. Finally, we have a duty, a constitutional obligation, to estimate the costs of each bill brought to the Sejm. The fact that PiS is breaking the constitution is no longer the fault of the shortcomings in the law, it is the fault of the government, which is breaking the law established here in the Polish Parliament. Finally, there is the independence of the National Bank of Poland enshrined in the Constitution and in the Act on the NBP, it is impossible to write it more strongly, there is no need for that. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We are simply asking PiS to say that he will stick to it.]] Yeah, but who's Jarosław Kaczyński to declare that he won't break the constitution? What is the responsibility of Jarosław Kaczyński if he says break the constitution or break the constitution? None. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: This is what happens.]] So he's a bad recipient. [[But what does that have to do with anything, Mrs. Izo, really...]] On returning to the rating, Mr President, the Minister of Finance's rating was a little concerned, however, because with Prime Minister Morawiecki they probably visited all possible TV and radio stations, where they had to eat their own language and say that they lied in the election campaign, because the Polish economy is a strong economy, Mr Neumann quoted it. [[Applause]] But it didn't even help. Why? You are mistaken - and I think you are also saying that Standard & Poor is wrong - the rating with the assessment of the Polish economy from the time when you managed the Civic Platform for 8 years. However, the rating is a risk assessment carried out by the investor by buying Polish debt papers tomorrow, in a year and in two years' time - this is what the rating is used for. That is why, unfortunately, with the actions you are taking, this rating is just fair, talking about the danger you are putting Poland in. High Seym! Turns out the PiS is the spokesperson for the wrong change. You've moved us within two months to a basket of countries where it's better not to invest. These are the two agencies that I mentioned, and these are the headlines of European economic newspapers, from which the image of the Polish government emerges as a driver who drives the car and then closes his eyes so that he does not see the catastrophe. That's what you want to do to Poland, and that's what you want to put Poland at risk. In fact, your decisions are actually just bad changes. Poland becomes unpredictable - and this is a bad change, Poland becomes reluctant to foreign investors - and this is a bad change. Poland is offended by its largest trading partner, Germany - and this is also a bad change. And Poland is in debt over the time of economic prosperity - this is another bad change. But good change, no sight, no hearing. Where's 500+? [[In the woods.]] In the woods, I think. Not only does Kukiz15 feel betrayed, Poles also feel betrayed by the Law and Justice because you betrayed them. This bill was supposed to come in January, then April, and today we heard that maybe it wasn't until June. Few of this, according to its assumptions, is evidently that it is not 500 PLN per child, and that is what you told Poles in the election campaign and the Poles believed it. But there isn't. We have left you Poland strong and safe, and this is very important, especially when the world is uncertain and the world is dangerous. Of course it's not Minister Shamacha's fault that China's stock market is uncertain that we have a crisis in the Middle East, but when the world is dangerous, no additional internal threat is allowed, while you are one big threat to Poland, disregard the constitution and international law, you have a mouth full of phrases about the national economy, and you are breaking fundamental economic rights, and you are finally turning away from the European Union, the largest market. Yesterday, President Grzegorz Schetyna told us about your turning away from the European Union: you spoke about Budapest, you are leading us towards Athens, turning back to Europe, and if you turn back to Europe, you will face Moscow. Are you sure this is what you want for Poland? [[No.]] You are a threat because Poland is not Hungary and the difference lies not only in the fact that we are almost four times the size of the economy, but also in the fact that in Poland there is no consent either to authoritarian governments, nor to the reduction of democracy, nor to 27 percent VAT. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the beginning, I will refer briefly to the statements of my predecessors. Mrs Leszczyna said that the biggest threat is the PiS. Nevertheless, I dare say that the greater threat than the Platform has so far been in the history of the Third Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[That's a good one.]] I am speaking quite objectively, because from this speaker today I would like to talk to the PiS a little bit more in a man's way, because this budget, which represents the PiS, is not the happiest budget from the point of view of the Kukiz15 movement. Mrs Leszczyna has yet to say that there is no one to buy Polish bonds. [[That it could happen.]] This over-liquidity of the banking sector, which is characteristic of our banking sector, is certainly enough and enough for the multiple roll-out of Polish bonds, especially because - as you know - government bonds are exempt from banking tax and have become very attractive in terms of the subject of investment, for Polish commercial banks. So here I wouldn't be afraid that there will be a sudden increase in profitability because some political turmoil around the rating agency's Standard & Poors index will cause our debt to increase avalanchely. Foreign investors also want to make money, not politics, and I think they know very well how attractive Polish bonds are in terms of profitability with this economic situation, which is in Poland. [[They're still here. They're still here.]] Now I'm going to refer to Professor Żyżyński, who... I very much liked the idea that the citizens' budget should also be in the Sejm and that each of the 460 Members should be able to relate this to 1%. budgetary revenue. If he splits up, it'll be $7.5 million per head. So we could - just like the councillors in the municipalities can boast that the pavement was built - we could also boast that we built something in Poland for this 7.5 million. [[And that's not bad at all.]] From the point of view of some Members, I am sure. As regards the employment cost-to-GDP ratio mentioned by Prof. Żyżyński, he is very low. But if it's so low, why is the PiS blocking the indicative amounts that could be raised for the budgetary sphere when it comes to remuneration? The base amount is blocked by 9 or 10 years in a row. I asked this speaker at the first budget reading why we keep blocking base amounts, we don't make increases. The budgetary sphere would be a transmission belt for further increases on the scale of the private economy. If 9 or 10 years in a row are blocking the base amount for budget increases, then let's not be surprised that we have such an indicator. So that we need to start with ourselves here, and we need to see that if we want wages to be an increasing share of GDP, we need to start if there is no impetus in the private economy, in the budgetary economy, and there we need to give impetus to wage increases. This impulse in this budget, unfortunately, does not exist. If the national debt, Professor, is not a problem, because it can be rolled up, and if there is no one - I understand, by default: if there is no one to pay it - then inflation will be done and somehow the man will settle the budget, then where did the ZUS bankruptcy come from? The US is really a sovereign debt, not a foreign debt, but a domestic debt. So? And the failure of the ZUS is, however, a problem for all of us. But this 500+ comes not from the air, but from the problems of the ZUS. Many of the reforms that await us in the near future are based on the failure of the social security system and the collapse of the social security system. This is a problem with national debt. So it is not that too much domestic debt is not a problem. She's a problem. A compounding, growing national debt is a problem, especially for future generations, and in extreme form it can lead to this generation simply disappearing - either not born or completely emigrated. That is why we must deal with this and bend over the national debt, stop its avalanche growth, because the absence of this detention will make us a society of old people in 20 years, we will not be attractive to our own citizens enough to grow and live here. So 3 million migrants plus 1.33 children is a very clear signal that national debt is a problem. I will now refer to the budget, if you don't mind. There is a great deal of argument here that we have unrealistic economic growth, GDP growth. I believe that GDP growth is very real because 500+ will be a demand boost. In addition, this can be seen after the results for the fourth quarter, where GDP, in terms of annual take-up, has risen to 3.6%. And what was the growth in the fourth quarter alone? Well, it's 4%. So I think 3.8% in 2016 is to be maintained since in the fourth quarter alone the increase is 4% year to year. Consumer demand is growing, exports are growing. The only problem could be inflation. Here, the PiS government should cooperate more with the National Bank of Poland, perhaps even in terms of quantitative relaxation, because we are still threatened with deflation. Dramatic falling raw material prices will continue to contribute to deflation pressures. If there are still international embargoes from Russia on food, then our food market, our food production will continue to feel the pressure of lack of demand and there will still be deflation pressure on food, on raw materials, which, with moderate growth in demand and still high production potential, will not translate into an increase in inflation in the Polish economy. In my opinion, in 2016, we can still deal with deflation pressures and something should be done here. The forecasts for the euro, the USD, have already verified life itself, ladies and gentlemen. Euros today at PLN 4.5 and in forecast - at PLN 4.03. I'd like us to see the appreciation of the gold by 12%. But I think it's unlikely, too, with the situation that it is. Ladies and gentlemen, the revenue of the state budget is rising by as much as 9% and GDP is only rising by 3%. They're getting dangerous scissors. However, sustainable development is that budgetary revenues should grow at about the same rate if they are to grow as GDP. If they grow at a rate of three times faster, it is dangerous in the long term. If we want certain expenditures to increase, it is not by increasing budget revenue, but by reducing spending on administration, because there is no bureaucracy in this budget, there is no restriction of administration, and this is the most important issue when it comes to healing the Polish economy, healing Polish finances. Let's start cutting these years of funding, these agencies, these agendas, let's start cutting red tape in the administration, starting a rational public finance economy. If we don't do this, there's no money that bureaucracy won't eat, and it'll eat us with that money, too, if we don't start controlling it. Unfortunately, there is no such step in this budget, and that is what we are most concerned about when it comes to the draft of this budget, that you are not fighting bureaucracy, you are not fighting over-government, you are not fighting against a thousand unnecessary expenditures. I don't know why, maybe we're running out of time. But very carefully at you, the state, we will look at you in 2017, or you will also take the same approach to administration and savings as you have come to the 2016 budget. The NBP's profit will be much higher, 8.5 billion. I do not see any amendment on the part of the Law and Justice in this regard. We have more than 4.5 billion higher profits of NBP, mainly due to higher exchange rates. If this continues... [[Voice from the room: Let's hope not.]] ...that this year will be a high profit for NBP and I expect, our club expects you to do something about this 4.5 billion. If you have no idea, at least lower your budget deficit, it will look nice on paper and we will be more pleased to look at this budget. And if you don't mind, I'd suggest a suspension... The arguments are this: we can't spend this money because it's a one-off profit, it won't happen again next year, so it would be rational not to spend one-off profits on things that come up several times. Then let's suspend the capital gains tax for one year and finance it more profit from the NBP. The stock market -26%, the stock market is plowed, the capital market is lying and screaming, when the OFE can't get up in practice and if you don't help it, it won't rise for years, because, as someone said, something can easily be destroyed and it takes years to rebuild. So let's try to help President Zaleska and rebuild the stock market, rebuild the capital market, suspend the tax on capital gains for one year. It won't cost much, because if the stock market had losses, where would the profits be, and perhaps it would allow Mrs. Zaleska to reactivate, resuscitate and sanitize the stock exchange. There's money here, and it could be used successfully, the more that the capital market will be needed for the investment programme, it will certainly help you. I could use it right now... I'm not saying we abolish the capital gains tax. Let's suspend him for a year. Let's see if this helps us. My second amendment - a radio-television subscription. Let's give people a break from the radio-television subscription. People don't want to pay a radio-television subscription, mostly they don't pay it in practice, they have some sanctions over them, pay for possession of a TV, from some PRL Gomula for apology, a tax on possession of a TV. Just if we don't have the money to keep the TV going, let's introduce a sector tax on radio and television advertising. Private commercial television stations are like doughnuts in butter. Just as the doughnuts in the butter had banks. We introduced a bank tax and nothing happened. What, the Platform will also claim that TVs will pass tax on advertising issuers, and advertising issuers will raise prices in stores? Oh, come on. That's not gonna happen. So let's introduce a tax on radio and television advertising, and since July 1st, let's abolish the subscription. I'm sure the citizens will welcome it and admit it. As for the 500+ program, very briefly, because I still wanted to save time for my colleagues. There's no show for the first kid. I figured that, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to sanate ourselves in terms of demographics and fertility rates, then from the 500+ program as it is at the moment, they won't benefit from singles and we won't encourage them to get married and get married, they won't benefit from a family with zero children, and these are 29.5%. on the scale of all families, will not benefit from the first child, 67% families with first child will not benefit from the program, 58% families with two children will benefit only for one child, that is, most families with two children will benefit only for one child, and 30% of 3+ families will not benefit fully from this scheme. So this isn't a pro-family program, it's a pro-social program, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, by making life easier for the PiS, let's call it a VAT refund, because we can de facto treat it as an unwritten VAT refund that families spend on raising their children, and then it'll be okay, and then we won't call it social. But unfortunately, if the program doesn't include the first children, it's a social program, even if you call it family, not family. Ladies and gentlemen, I've examined the countries in which the programme is as well as ours. Only in France is it not paid for the first child, but in France, while in Ireland, Germany, Sweden, Hungary the funding of the first child is the majority of the programme, not the minority. We cannot cause such a situation that there will be many families in Poland, which will be even more numerous, and families who do not have children will not have children even more. We need to integrate society, so we need to encourage those who have no children or have little children to expand, not encourage families of many children to have even more children. This is not a family policy - it is not a social policy encouraging more children, it is an incentive to start families and have children, because there are shortcomings here. To conclude my speech, I still wanted to refer to the tax that has ignited your imagination in recent days, i.e. the tax on income from commercial activities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not what we agreed. I mean, we didn't date in the election campaign. [[Applause]] That's what we agreed on. That's not what we agreed on in the election campaign. The tax was to include corporations, mainly foreign ones, and was to be a tax that supports Polish entrepreneurship. And what will cause the tax to come first? Raising the price of petrol because all goods which are excise goods which are goods related to a natural monopoly will immediately react to price increases. I don't want the citizens, my constituents asking me later why you voted for a 2% increase or 3% increase. prices of petrol from the vending machine. Therefore, if we want to introduce this tax, it cannot cover goods already subject to excise duty, because excise duty plus VAT, plus other taxes, makes goods subject to excise duty already subject to a gigantic tax. Of course, it's not about defending alcohol producers, it's about fuel. We can no longer tax fuel more, and unfortunately this will be the result of the introduction of this form of tax. So I am appealing here from the speaker to you that we should consider that we cannot tax petrol with this tax. Last sentence. I am worried about what will happen to the effects of excise duties and the effects of VAT and of minerals due to the fall in raw materials prices. Here you should lean forward - I'm talking to the PiS - and check whether your forecasts regarding the proceeds of the fossil tax in the light of the drop in copper prices and excise duties in the light of the fall in oil prices are to be implemented. We can discuss VAT because we hope that 500+ and the introduction of this central register will improve the situation with regard to VAT, while with regard to excise duty and fossils, I do not think that these revenues are to be maintained, which are presented. The Kukiz Club15 would support the budget if we had a change in the Public Finance Act, guaranteed a balance between revenue and expenditure, starting in 2018. If such a provision were found, there would be such a change in the Public Finance Act, we would consider budget support. Otherwise, we cannot put our children and grandchildren at risk of a massive public debt linked to such a budget deficit, and at this point we cannot support the draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u37	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the future is concerned, things are actually different for us. I'll start with what my predecessors started with, that maybe the devil is in the details, but today we have a reality very different from the one you preached during the election campaign. New power, new quality - said the Prime Minister - there will be a good change, we want to give people money, we know how to raise this money to the budget. And so: there was to be a tax pulling money out of those bad, bad foreign banks, there was a tax actually destroying small, weaker, less profitable banks whose assets work worse. There was supposed to be a tax on large-scale shops, there was a trade tax on a much wider group of traders, which we believe will also be passed on to citizens. What's the most important thing? These taxes were not to be touched by Poles, it was not Poles who were to pay for all this. And yet we know very well today that it is in the pockets of Poles that is looking for money to cover these taxes. But first things first. We've been working on the bank tax. We called for the costs of this tax to be passed on to customers. Minister Szalamach assured every step of the way, repeatedly stressing that banks would not raise the prices of their loans and other operations, because we have Polish banks that would force competition to stop the increases. Today we know: the costs of banks have been increased, regardless of whether these are costs of Polish banks or foreign banks. We don't just have more expensive loans, we have more expensive cost of card operations, we have more expensive cost of handling ATMs. Second thing. We have translated: the sector generates different revenues and cannot under any circumstances generalise the situation in the banking sector. Today we have seven banks that generate profits at the level of banking tax. Of course, the Law and Justice did not pay attention to these voices of the opposition at all. What amazement do I hear today? That the Members of the Law and Justice say, well, if the small, weak banks fall, we're going to redeem them for half the money, for half their value. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't run an economy like that. The Poles will pay too much for it again. [[Applause]] [[How much were they bought for?]] The first revenge of the PiS is already coming out to Poles sideways. It's more expensive, more risky. Who's really gonna benefit from this? I'll tell you who's gonna benefit from this: big and strong banks. And not necessarily Polish. [[Well, I guess you should be happy then.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen, big banks are just gonna rip themselves off and come out of all this fuss with their defenses, because we know that the big one always comes out of the crisis stronger, because he's gonna lose some of the competition on the way. I wonder who today in the Government of Law and Justice really wants strong and large banks in Poland, not necessarily Polish, to be strengthened. [[It's perverse.]] Now it's time for the second revenge, this time on the big trading networks. [[That's a change of pace.]] Strangely, the tax will not only pay large networks today, but all operators generating monthly trade at a level exceeding PLN 1.5 million. And they're gonna pay, as we hear them, gas stations, they're gonna pay, as we hear them, car dealers, developers are gonna pay, because I heard that tax... I didn't get a chance to read the bill because there was something else we were working on last night, but I heard it was going to be about developers, apartments. This is support for young marriages? Now we're gonna have taxes on trade, housing? Congratulations, I really congratulate you on your raise. Of course, Law and Justice continue to claim that these taxes will not be converted into residents. And I say to you, miss! Once again you will explain to taxpayers, once again you will explain to Poles why you lied to them, and you will do so soon. So here's the thing: it's supposed to be A, it's B, it's supposed to be cheap, it's expensive, it's supposed to be safe, it's risky. Now it's time for 500+, 17 billion closer to uncounted revenues to cover 17 billion more indeterminate costs. A huge long-term burden, as we have already mentioned many times here, for which PiS wants to allocate funds from one-off influences, just a question of what will be next year, what will be in 2 years. PiS says: somehow we will collect, we have a year to find this money, we will pull it out of Poles' pockets again, sealing tax systems so that taxes are better paid. I hope that you will actually pursue tax criminals this time, not suffocate this money from Poles, so to speak. We support catching those who break the law, but really today there are no tools or ideas on how to do it. However, many problems remain unresolved. Administration is growing in the budget for the following year. Almost every step of the way, I heard in the Committee on Public Finance that jobs are rising. Surprisingly, bureaucracy is growing, tasks are growing, tax system structure is growing, new tasks are coming. Unfortunately, I have the impression that after the campaign no one in PiS thinks about how to fight bureaucracy and overgrown administration. The hole in the insurance fund, as I said earlier, is almost 63 billion, we know that it will grow further. No one in the government thinks today how strategically to prepare for a war with demographic problems on this side, i.e. holes in the insurance fund. The PiS government not only does not want to carry out further reforms in this respect, which could stop this problem, but rather as if to reverse what has already been done. However, public debt is already 920 billion PLN and is growing further. No one thinks who and when is really going to start paying for it, on the contrary: government policy is still directed towards debt to the country. Mr Żyżyński here explained to us that we do not know economics, because the state is not here to reduce its debt. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard that Mr. Żyżyński is an educated statistician, that he may have missed a lesson in economics. I was taught whether it was in practice or in theory that debt paid off, and, yes, to borrow, because he is within certain limits cheaper than investing his own capital, but only within reasonable limits, because if we owe ourselves too much, then the debt will simply be too expensive. On what Mrs Leszczyn said, I will also answer. If your fiscal policy were sufficient and responsible, you wouldn't have to own the money of Poles from OFE. [[Applause]] As a result of these different changes and decisions, we have what we have today. One international agency has already lowered Poland's rating. Of course, we warned as an opposition, but PiS knew better. That's not the end of it. The second agency threatened us with a finger last night. Again, the PiS says, "And there, it's just some kind of bullshit on paper." Ladies and gentlemen, it so happens that the result is an increase in the cost of handling public debt. The Poles will actually pay for it again, because additional costs to the budget are systematically affected, because investors have already asked for an additional risk premium. So the effects of these decisions will be felt, in fact, regardless of the views of the PiS, whether this movement had any justification or not, whether it should or not, as if we would feel it at the price of our 10-year-old bonds. [[What would we do without you? Really.]] But if you also have to consider that foreign investors can have 20 other, more interesting positions that will seem safer, and they will simply take their money, and that will be the end of the discussion on the rating. I will not mention that it is not really possible to host our entrepreneurs under such conditions, ladies and gentlemen, because if we have such a volatility on the dollar, if we have such a volatile stock exchange, if entrepreneurs are unable to plan ahead of their contracts, for example export, they are unable to calculate the profitability of their orders, then their hands are a little down and they don't really want to think about the development of their company. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have one more moment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] for quick and concise training. A credit rating agency, for your knowledge, has the right to take into account not only quantitative values...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u39	Thank you very much, Member, for running out of time for your club. Politely finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u40	...but also qualitative, which take into account different changes. I'm finishing, of course, Mr. Marshal, the last sentence. In view of all these issues, of course, there are much more problems as a club that is firmly stepping on the ground and counting every dollar, and we find this budget shortsighted and we are unable to support it. Thank you very much. Oh, one amendment, also regarding higher profits from the NBP. [[All you had to do was say the last sentence.]] [[Rysiek, I got it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u41	Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u42	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, she didn't understand my words, and the state-of-the-art, with stubbornness worthy of a better case, promotes the false thesis that the Civic Platform owed the State the same debt as the PiS does. Well, Commissioner, the best assessment of the government's fiscal policy of the Civic Platform was that we kept the rating at a high level for the entire eight years, although the time was very different, there was a recession around the world, economic slowdown in Poland, so do not compare, because, speaking of your economic education, you are still comparing apples to oranges.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u43	It's not a discussion, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u44	You can't do that. Final corrigendum. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a look at the judgment of the Constitutional Court. In open pension funds there were no savings of private Poles... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u45	Thank you very much, Commissioner, you have run out of time for correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u46	...because it's social security and it's public money, so learn it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u47	Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Club Law and Justice. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: And I would also like to be corrected.]] You've already run out of time for your club. Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But one Member of the marshal allows correction and the other does not.]] That's because they still have time. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It was not within the time frame, it was as a correction, Mr. Marshal.]] But you weren't mentioned by name. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: No, she obviously spoke to me.]] I'm so sorry. Please don't interfere with the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that the Member representing the Civic Platform Club - I will deliberately not mention the name so as not to give an opportunity to rectify - my previous speaker reminded us of the feeling of government suggesting, the majority of the parliamentary texts quoted here in Europe, and referred to an evaluation from newspapers in western Europe, which often tied and paralyzed the government's actions, kept our country in a tight state without reform, without the courage to create tax policy, state development policy. It took eight years. It was the cooling of the economy, it was slowing down the possible growth rate under dictation, under the aegis of strong states, without any idea, without any innovation, such sturdy governance, maintaining the state found by successive finance ministers who had no idea to repair public finances in Poland... [[We missed 25% of the time then, sir.]] ...and they didn't use any one mechanism, any one mechanism that would cover a few billion. They used only such thinking: they gave themselves e.g. the right to delete half of the pension system, OFE, they planned to privatize the forests in Poland, where they had this kind of position... [[But that's not true, you're lying, sir.]] ... 250 billion PLN once to take. But when it was about repairing public finances, for example. through better management of the liquidity of the whole public finance sector, better distribution of resources to local governments or restructuring of this debt in local government units... [[That's what we did.]] ...and in the around budget units of the state, they didn't realize any idea. You had no initiative and led the country to an increasing debt. Mr Kukiz, who performed at the Kukiz club15, generously declared here that he would support a budget that would not have a deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, I submit to him and to those who have repeatedly spoken and expressed such opinions, sympathy, and I regret that they had not done this before, because four years ago, the Civic Platform had to be taken away from power, because with great complacency it regularly generated a deficit of such a high level, enjoying itself. I would also like to vote and raise my hand behind a budget that does not contain a deficit. I hope that this will be given to us as soon as possible, hopefully next year, but today we have a situation as possible, and we have no other situation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the second reading of the Budget Act. What can we do to revive the debate on the state budget at second reading after a very comprehensive debate in the Committee on Public Finance, the debate in the Sejm at first reading? There aren't many ways to do that. There was no sensation between the first and second readings and today it is difficult to give this document the freshness that the draft has at the time of publication, when it leaves the Ministry of Finance, the government forum or when it is given a number of Parliamentary printing, especially when the amendments adopted during the proceedings of the finance committee do not have any significant change in the position of revenue and expenditure. I have to say this: I've always heard here for eight years that the opposition, when they tabled amendments, wanted to ruin the budget. We're not gonna use that phrase. I believe that the opposition should have the right to make amendments, and I would always like these amendments to be accepted, but that will only happen when ideas are given here on how to increase budgetary revenue. And, ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate on that. I believe that there will be a handful of people in the parliament hall and a lot of people in our government who will focus mainly on this, and then we will meet the right claims, the right ideas in many social spheres, where there is really no money for basic purposes. The draft budget was not particularly criticised during the process. He received positive opinions from all committees examining the various parts of the committee properly attributed to the substance and the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance. In the meantime, attempts have been made to destroy a relatively stable economic environment since first reading. It is impossible not to see what is happening on the Warsaw Stock Exchange market, where investors lost really much money on cheap shares of companies listed on the dance floor as a consequence of the decision of the PO to correct the OFE system. Let's not kid ourselves, that's the basic reason. Such desperate attempts to destroy the economic environment in which we operate could include, above all, the debate about Poland, which was served in the European Parliament as a result of a joint initiative taken abroad against Poland by the opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You're breaking the constitution. We have to protect her.]] This attempt failed because of the excellent argument that Prime Minister Beata Szydło used in Strasbourg. Nevertheless, there were no compelling circumstances which would justify a significant transformation of this budget document. Nor should an attempt to undermine the security and assessment of Polish finances be considered to be such in the opinion issued by Standard & Poors, which lowered its previously issued rating. This opinion has remained isolated until now and is clearly speculative and not objective, mainly expressing a lack of kindness. Other ratings for Poland were maintained by Moodys Corporation and Fitch Ratings. One could say that the draft budget law in the Sejm at first reading was defended. At the time of the first reading of the budget in the Parliament's Chamber, there has been a significant assurance of budgetary revenue, I ask you, by carrying out and completing work on the tax on certain financial institutions. This new form of taxation of banking, insurance and loan institutions, which, according to the revenue plan set out in this document, is intended to secure the proceeds to the state's bank of 5.5 billion, has obtained its shape and final framework. Today it is already signed by the President, and the entities obliged under this law can read the exact wording and prepare to be implemented. This law, in the course of parliamentary work, has been given a really good, decent shape in order to achieve the influence and preserve the competitive conditions of the industry. It is appropriate to thank once again those who have brought their knowledge and experience to its final shape, in particular Members, and have formed this document courageously, including even loan companies to pay this tribute. Companies that, as we remember, have often acted in an aggressive marketing and price manner towards customers pushed outside the supervised area of the banking sector. It has to be acknowledged here that the opposition did nothing to legitimise the revenue from this to the budget, but, on the contrary, it has permanently tabled a number of amendments which would have been destructive, to relieve the largest financial institutions, to call into question the scale of the planned revenue from this tribute, which we announced in the elections and which had a very high rate of social consent to make such a change in the tax system. It is also important that it has been prepared and consulted socially, especially among those representing the retail industry and large-scale shops, the draft law on the tax on hypermarkets, and the Minister of Finance has presented its final parameters. Markets will pay three turnover tax rates. The base rate will be 0.7% , and the others - 1,3 And 1.9. The tax will also include a free amount of PLN 1.5 million of monthly turnover and an additional rate for trade on Sundays. It's his initial projection. I think the Sejm will work out here, taking into account further environmental voices, this document, but there will be no disruption of revenue projections to the state budget. Let us remind you that the revenue from this tax was estimated at PLN 2 billion. The voice of the merchant and commercial environment has been taken into account to a maximum, as shown in the application of tax progression, which means that the more capital-intensive entities, with a larger scale of commercial activity, will pay more. In this case, the trading tax simulation function will be used and should improve the competitive conditions in the commercial services market for smaller operators, such as: housing stores, which will not pay at all on the planned assumptions of this tax. In addition, we will respond to the voices about reducing trade on Sundays, because an additional tribute has been offered, as I said, to stimulate trade within a week. It is worth mentioning that opposition parties did not present in Parliament any project to document their concerns and efforts for public finances in Poland and the wealth of pockets of our fellow citizens. They have literally not submitted any idea or assumptions to the law that would improve the state budget's revenue situation. These are facts. That's not what they do. Of course, many activists and leaders of opposition groups, fortunately not all, put in a lot of energy to undermine Poland's position on the international stage. It's pathetic. [[That is not true, sir.]] They are irresponsiblely trying to dispel the boat that we all sail together and which should be a superior value. [[You guys are doing this.]] High Seym! Money is needed for the 500+ programme, a flagship programme that is expected socially. However, it would be unfair today if we did not say that efforts are still ongoing to increase budget revenue on a larger scale, while maintaining the existing corporate and physical tax rates. Yeah, that's a huge achievement. The declaration not to raise these taxes is maintained... [[You're gonna pick up that PIT, too?]] ...and there are assurances that we will try to reduce them. We see huge possibilities for public finances to be repaired by sealing the VAT collection system. Over the years, we have issued a warning from this tribune and called for more effective enforcement of this tax. The carousel frauds, the setting up of companies for poles, VAT fraud have reached an incredible scale. The helplessness of the tax and control system of the state in this area has reached a specific apogee. Analysts and experts agree that a fair tax on commercial transactions may have the most significant dimension overestimated the scale of the revenue of the State budget. We need better ways to collect this tax. The fear of entering with control into large foreign entities and corporate entities must end, and this was in force under the previous team. The procedures for targeting VAT offenders must be improved in such a way that they can react quickly to fraud, the use of the current knowledge of the banking sector, which is already being collected for the purposes of the Chief Financial Information Inspector, to immediately diagnose fraudulent intentions and activities consisting in registering new entities, most often foreign ones, which do the most damage to the system of collecting this tax in the first few weeks of their existence. Using the current method, they are sought at a time when there is no longer a trace of running a business, preferably 2 years from the moment of extortion. We must give transparent, generally accessible knowledge of dishonest and uncertain entities. The state must stop being afraid of economic criminals and such entities. Even the publication of newly registered entities itself, their list on government websites could be a clue to the prudent conclusion of transactions in the high technology sector, electronics, fuel market, construction services market. Similarly, maintaining formal requirements, such as accurate confirmation of the registration person's place of residence in Poland, including shares in the company, can make it much easier to diagnose the condition of these entities. Access to the knowledge of the entity's own capital and its adequacy to carry out with the scale of the business carried out may and must be the first indication for the tax authorities to include a warning lamp on the possibility of placing an unfair entity on the market, which is intended for tax fraud, and its activities are hit by our domestic entities, which often bear the cost of processing with the tax payer for payment of VAT as counterparties. The state must finally stop being helpless and incompetent towards criminals who operate not only in Poland, but the state must show the will to seal the system and protect Polish capital and Polish companies. So far, the state has not done enough of this. Let's say it loudly, let it fall out of the Seymour's bleacher: it doesn't steal most, it steals a small group. You cannot allow a small and medium-sized entrepreneur to be harassed for this group of endless checks over the years. The state is to be citizen-friendly. And this budget is an illustration of the formation of a country that is citizen-friendly and family-friendly. Ladies and gentlemen, we're looking for 70 billion dollars of income. It takes 70 billion dollars of income to get Poland back on its feet to make people proud of their homeland. And we know that this can be done without raising taxes, and we all know it. That's what serious analysts, big and medium-sized entrepreneurs say at meetings - they believe it's possible, they give us strength and they enjoy change, and they don't mind that the Sejm is working day and night. We're gonna go get the 70 billion in VAT, let's go. Does that seem unrealistic to you? Who believes it's possible? So far, no one. We have one vote, thanks to Bogdan. Ladies and gentlemen, John Kennedy, when he took office, once said, "Don't ask what your country can do for you, but what you can do for your country." But he said other words that inspire even more, and at this point I will quote them, because it is a matter of being either not being - or our country will be stronger, strong, because it can increase budget revenue, or it will be a weak country at the mercy of the stronger. John Kennedy said: We have chosen a flight to the Moon and other difficult projects to carry out, because it will help us to learn and get what is best in us. [[Applause]] This is a serious task, this is a very difficult task. This is a very difficult task ahead of us, but I believe that the Minister of Finance... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Who is not...]] ...his colleagues, the Ministry and us here, in the Parliament hall, and the people who work in the various committees - and in the finance committee, and in the subcommittee of the Permanent Finance Commission for the tax system - and the Supreme Audit Chamber, and other committees will create the conditions for our country not to be deceived, assuming short-term actors, acting within the framework of organised global and European crime. Because this is not an accusation cast against small and medium-sized companies, it is a universal problem within Europe, but one that can and must be dealt with. It remains to raise the problem of regulating the gambling market, left since the gambling scandal almost completely without regulation. About 120 grand. machines, single-handed bandits to play work today, as they say, without tax. It's scandalous, it's scandalous, it's a real legacy of the governments of the PO, and consequently it's a loss of state revenue comparable to what's expected from the market tax, which is at least 2 billion. There is also another problem that needs to be solved, it is about cleaning up the PO-PSL team and showing the way for a dozen thousand entities that have been wiped out from the market during the construction of highways, roads and stadiums. This is a great problem to solve, how to unlock the activity of thousands of economic operators of my generation, who had outstanding energy and will to work to build a country, and were deceived on public robots and pushed to the margins of economic turnover, into the grey zone. They don't pay taxes today, they're bankrupt, they're employed in black. They trusted you, okay, sometimes naively, it's true, but they believed that robots in the public sector wouldn't be deceived, they believed in the honesty of the state. This country has a duty to go back to their problems, to their legal situation and to solve problems in order to restore them to the sphere of economic activity, to business activity. [[Applause]] We must not lose the energy and power of this generation to the end. This action is possible, such action must be and will be taken. The budget shall have revenue and expenditure headings. There are so many people who want to tell who else needs money, and they're irrevocable, right now, and they're right -- they're short of money on a lot of good things. In the government, but also here in the High House, there must be at least a handful of people who will show how to increase the power of the state by increasing its income. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, an independent Member, now has a voice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I also wanted to say, Minister and Prime Minister, but so far they are absent. My previous speaker talked about how to increase the power of the state by increasing revenue. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the strength of the state must be increased by reducing expenditure, and this is drastic. This budget, of course, is in some sense an inherited budget and I do not resent the government or the Prime Minister - I support this government, as most Poles look forward to the necessary changes - but, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, is absolutely standing before us all, and those from the government, and those from the opposition, the question of how to rationalise the administrative structure of the state, the structure of the state, because it generates debt. If I open the budget and see there, for example. such institutions kept from the budget as the Polish Horse Racing Club, dear country, it calls for vengeance to heaven. If I see one, for example. Some Central Sports Centre held up with budget money, borrowed, because we're holding it all up for deficit, for loans... Answer me, what are these institutions for? We're holding the National Election Office. Which nation can afford to maintain the electoral administration all the time, even though the elections are once every four years, and we still give them 90 million? The National Judicial Council gets $35 million to buy a luxury seat. Are these the expenditures of a wise, rationally governed state in a situation where 74 billion loans need to be borrowed? I can't agree with that kind of approach to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is necessary to review the structure of the state from top to bottom, through local administration. The county labour office in my county city has 80 people, 90 people, and some of them have gone to the city office because the manager has won the election. After all, this is an institution that converts only the resources for training, from which not a single place of work has arrived. But this is the county office. And what does he do at the time? Voivodship labour office? What do marshals do, what do they do? What does 3/4 people work in powiats? In my county town, while there were no counties, the district office had 46 employees. Today the old town employs 160, and this is what the county labour office and so on happens. 3/4 of this administration is a special administration which should be a government administration. This needs to be addressed, the whole administration, the whole state structure needs to be reviewed, because it is the state structure that generates the deficit and generates the need for continuous debt. And if you really need to increase spending, then any rational and reasonable, responsible company manager, home, household budget or state must also think about reducing expenditure. I'm making that motion. I understand that the budget has its inertia, it is a budget prepared by the previous team, the Prime Minister and the Government are unable to make a radical return, because it is like a car - you can't turn too quickly, but I make such a conclusion that a committee, I don't know, a parliament, a government that would look at the structure of the state from top to bottom. I cannot accept the structure of the state that I see today. We judge different institutions in the justice committee. The general inspection of personal data protection convinces us that basically in the age of the Internet, Facebook, everything is not possible to protect these personal data, and then concludes that he needs more money, more cars, more jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a courageous and rational review of the state structure and I believe that the draft budget should be accompanied by the promise of the Prime Minister that such action will be taken. Then, with a clear conscience, I will be able to raise my hand behind this budget, hoping that one day we will reach a point where we will simply make a wise reform of our country, because... Oh, there's the minister. I'm very happy for you. Well, then I'm leaving my memorial that I've prepared for this, right here at the office. I understand that this will be passed on to the Minister or to the Prime Minister. And please, I ask you to set up such a committee by the Prime Minister, who would review it, would make such an audit of the whole state structure, from the central administration, through all the institutions of the Polish horse racing club type, the National Election Office - completely unnecessary in my opinion. Voivodship administration can handle elections at any time of day and night. And so that our actions towards increased fiscalism - because unfortunately, what much to say here is increasing revenue is increasing fiscalism - is also accompanied by action to rationalise and reduce spending. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u51	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u52	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today I am more fortunate because Minister Shamacha is taking part in this debate. I am very happy about this because during the first reading, the Minister must have fulfilled other important duties. So I'd like to start with 500+, which is your flag, and you're bragging about it. If that were the case, Minister, why not the first day? Why didn't you introduce 500+ into this House instead of the Constitutional Court? There was a blue file, but there were all the designs in that blue file. [[Consulting, consulting.]] And another, another thing. We are under an excessive deficit procedure, which took place in June. You planned, shifted taxes, so you could do some things and start with what you have on your banners. And the Poles lied. The promise wasn't true because you didn't talk about the grandstand, and you did it at night, and you talked about 500+, you talked about it, you talked about it, and you talked about it. And we don't know - the voices are critical about whether it's a social program and how much it's going to help families. And that's what we want to talk about, and that's what we want to talk about, because it's another stiff expense. However, as my previous speaker said, you do not take off any other rigid expenses. So you're expanding the rigid expenditure pool, and there's nothing you can do about it in this budget in the future. I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Aren't you afraid that the announced increase for uniformed services, which we have provided in this budget of PLN 2 billion, is in breach of the law related to public finances violations? After all, we don't really have a budget passed, and this country is not the same expense as last year, you are introducing and letting go... We have provided remuneration for these people and we say: let us give them, let us give these 200 zlotys uniforms, they deserve it. That's how we prepared the budget. But you have to do it at some point with the Public Finance Discipline Act, and you don't do it. So I would like to address the Minister: please have special protection for publishing or matters related to the discipline of public finances. And that's what we're gonna talk about. And now the rapporteur. Firstly, I noticed that in this report, as he said, a year ago I was rapporteur for the draft state budget for 2015, he repeated everything. That's all that's good. Therefore, as I refer to all your actions, the point of view depends on the point of the seat. Here today, Mr Żyżyński tried to teach everyone economics lessons, saying that it is nothing to do with the fact that you are in debt. For seventy-seven billion zlotys we owe, 74 billion zlotys additionally, the debt will amount to 974 billion. It's okay. Then why didn't Prime Minister Szydło say that she shouldn't say so last year, because this is the right thing to do? Today he admitted it, and therefore the lesson, if Mr Żyżyński wants, please start with the Prime Minister, because in this regard you are trying to say today that everything is fine. A year ago, two years ago, three years ago, you should have swallowed your tongues today, there was a completely different narrative. What's changed? PLN 9 billion only from frequency emissions to mobile phones shifted from last year to this year. This is just annual revenue, state budget revenue, and what about financing the 500+ project in the following years? That's what we're talking about. In the speeches of your fellow Members from the PiS... We're talking about a tax gap, it's like we can't control the mechanism in the past. I would like to say, my fellow Members, after all... Do you have a short memory? After all, we've made an expenditure rule, reverse VAT. We started with scrap metal, and we ended up with an extension of the reverse VAT directory, that security. [[Electronics.]] Have there been crimes in this area? And you, Mr Szalamach, in the Committee on Public Finances in the previous term, said: audit. Today, Minister, you already have this control and all the instruments in your hand. We'll be rooting for you to make it work. [[Honestly?]] But of course, I always sincerely support the Polish team, too. And what we want to say is this: you have to do it where you have to do it. But there's one more promise. If we are talking about the VAT that you promised, there are no announcements. There isn't. You said we're gonna win, we're gonna cut VAT by 1% to shorten this transition period. Not in 2017, now, right away. There is no such thing, and therefore the state, if you are to be accounted for by your constituents, we too, like your voters, will watch what you promised and what you did not do. So we have... You say that budget revenue is rising by 9%, this has been noted, and GDP is only increased by 3.8%. So will there be an opportunity in this case to implement this budget? You have spoken many times, I am speaking here to the Minister, about reducing administrative expenditure. Ministry of the family - increase by two jobs, two positions in management positions, KPRM - four. In many cases, if we look at all the resorts, how many in management positions, I will not talk about the offices, how many people were additionally employed, including the President of the Republic, whose spending is planned for 2016, when there is no end to the term of office, the President's office, at the same level as in 2015. The previous president must have... If there is a change of employees, it is related to checks, it is a natural consequence, and here there is no savings. You guys picked it up so hard. We still have, we say, you said so much, it rained from different lips, that I ruined something, among others. you pointed out to open pension funds and changes in this area. There was an article in the press, and it wasn't the expertise ordered for the budget, and I wanted to quote it, one of the experts: The allegations against the OFE Platform were false. About PLN 200 billion of debt during her reign resulted from the necessary transfer of money to open pension funds. The OFE mechanism was everyone's fault. It was introduced in 1999 together with a pension reform. The platform deleted it, I think, rightly. As a result, the State does not need to issue bonds to transfer billions more to open pension funds. [[Applause]] That's one thing. The second part. The choice was left to all those who had their resources in open pension funds. Two million people have decided... [[2.5.]] 2.5 million people have decided: we stay in open pension funds. But if we were to count how much money we were transferring to the OFE... I'm not gonna talk about high commissions in the past because that's not the subject. So let's weigh the words. In this room. Anyone with an open fund account, an account, could have decided that. [[He's got ZUS.]] He now has an individual account in ZUS for which funds are gradually transferred from year to year. And now I'm moving on to the amendments because everyone was talking about the amendments. I have a set of amendments for my fellow Members to the 2015 budget. Mrs Zuba is sitting, who has requested, among others, It's about the ice rink. We're not asking for ice rinks. There are more of these amendments, because last year there were 129, today we have 271. We tried to change, these are the amendments to the 2016 budget. I will talk about the most important amendments of the Civic Platform. So we propose 800 million PLN - and the law - to increase the support under the scheme of living for young people. This PLN 730 million can be exhausted very quickly due to the introduction by the Civic Platform of the secondary market, for the next 3 years we propose. There are no other announcements, let's give young people a chance to get an apartment with the support of the state budget. What I'm trying to say is that we're hoping for a deposit from the National Bank of Poland. And as the forecasts say, to reduce the deficit by PLN 5 billion, PLN 100 million for medical rescue. We improve, we give different sources of funding than the proposed amendments, because there is no increase in this respect compared to last year. Division into voivodships according to the ratio of these funds - at the disposal of the voivodship. We also point out, and I think a colleague will discuss this, PLN 55 million for the in vitro health prevention programme. And now what the Prime Minister was talking about, and Mr Janczyk spoke so much, that it is Strasbourg, assigning to the wrong, what happened. So fight your own breasts because of what you've done, that's what happened. This concern, therefore, has started a debate in the European Parliament, and there is a discussion in the European forum about what is the case of breaches of democratic constitutional principles in Poland. And in this respect, Prime Minister, once again, the President in his sworn-in exposé said that in Poland we probably needed additional resources, so we understood that children walk hungry, malnourished despite a support programme of PLN 550 million each year, prepared by the Civic Platform, long-term, that funds in the voivodeships' budgets, etc. And as the Prime Minister said, she said the same thing in Strasbourg, and nothing in this budget has changed. We conducted the entire query, the local authorities did not indicate that they needed more money. But if you know, we are showing you: you should increase your resources so that the Prime Minister will never speak abroad again... [[And she wasn't lying.]] ...and to achieve it in this respect, if there are such needs. We are talking to you about a lot of things, we are pointing out your point of view and today's orientations. You used to criticize things, and today you're taking advantage of the success you've achieved in previous years. And you say it's okay. Therefore, we ask you: rigid expenditure, this relationship, how it is to look in the future, whatever you do, do prudently so that we do not get increased ratings so that it does not cost us any more and that the Minister can implement the President's announcement of the draft franc bill, I am not talking about the tax-free bill, after a course of some kind. We also submitted a draft law on the restructuring of franc loans. But, Minister, as you do, you're going to devastate the entire financial system because no one knows you're adding and burdening citizens every day. Do it wisely. And if anything, under the cover of the night, let's do good things, not the ones that devastate you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u53	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski of the Kukiz Poselski Club is now speaking15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of us knows what is the main source of revenue for the state budget. You know, there are taxes, VAT, excise duty, PIT. In theory, considering the entire 2016 budget, taxes have not changed substantially. The remaining tax-free amount remains unchanged. And here's information for a friend who isn't in the O.R. because she didn't know about it in the media recently -- that's PLN 3091. So taxes remain the same, but the government is optimistic that revenue will increase by 7%. So, considering this, I think the government is planning an increase in fiscalism. So I expect greater control of entrepreneurs and, unfortunately, making life difficult for them. On the other hand, with much greater dynamics than taxes, spending is increasing and this causes my greatest concern, because the budget deficit has actually reached an astronomical level at the moment. It is not our agreement, our Kukiz club15, for such a low-cost budget, because it is not a cost-effective budget, it is a wasteful budget. I'm going to give you one example, because I don't have time for more, how our money is easily wasted. This is an example based on an institution called the State Labour Inspection, which using taxes, with our work - nomen omen word work is here and here - is wasting money. The chief inspector who supervises this institution requests an additional PLN 26 million without reforming his institution. I'm asking you why the 26 million zlotys for what. Or what we're seeing when we look at this institution, what's all this money wasted on? Because I'm not going to call it that otherwise. There are organized rauts, parties for which on pretext, because it is a good word, prizes of 20 people are invited to several hundred different guests literally eating our money. They eat them at events organized in very famous rooms of the Royal Castle, and the cost of such an event without service is 130,000. zł. Who does this kind of waste of money serve? I appeal, we're not a rich country to... I don't recommend it to anyone at all, because if we have money to spend that doesn't have to be spent, it just doesn't seem like it, because there's no reason to spend it. You'll say they're small amounts. Unfortunately, in the committee we did not pass our amendment, hence this is a minority request, to reduce the budget of this institution by 21 million. It's a small amount, but out of these small amounts, when we count the entire budget, it's going to make a pretty big sum. And maybe, that's a hypothetical assumption, a deficit wouldn't be nearly 55 billion then, maybe it would be four in the front. Let's save it. Savings is the basis for our action to get out of the state crisis. We need to reorganize this. Where there are ways to save money, let's save money. Maybe that's why Kukiz15 was hoping that the PiS Platform's budget nomen would improve, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and, unfortunately, it has not improved, the unnecessary expenditure has been maintained, and we will find it difficult to support such a budget. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u55	Thank you. The floor is now voiced by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. Therefore, Mrs Bożena Szydłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am paying attention to today's debate on the budget. Mr Richard Petru began his statement from the fact that he was very critical of the draft budget we had prepared. Similarly, Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, who discussed the academic position of Poland in the world here. And how is it, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, to assure the Prime Minister of Beata Szydło in Strasbourg that Poland is doing well? Mr Rafał Wójcikowski of Kukiz, 15, also completely discredited the Civic Platform. Mr Wiesław Janczyk said that it is necessary to clean up after the Platform. And I'm just gonna say one thing... [[So, what's it like?]] ...just a moment ago it was said: what a great initiative the local governments are successfully pursuing is the citizen's budget. And I wanted to tell you that this budget is an initiative of the Civic Platform and the Civic Institute. [[Applause]] You even want to move it to the central market. So this Platform is not so bad, and an example of this is the 29th part of the budget that I leaned over. I must say that the budget that you have presented - I have carefully analysed this part of the budget - this is almost a calculator, almost a 100% estimate of the budget assumptions presented by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in September last year. I wanted to tell you that the MON budget is PLN 35.8 billion and is 3 billion higher than in 2015, 2% GDP, which is us, Poland, is classified in the very top of the NATO-focused countries. Within this amount, property expenditure amounts to 10.2 billion, representing 28.7% defence expenditure, and guarantee implementation of the provisions of the Act of 25 May 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The increase in promotional expenditure of more than PLN 1.8 billion is also valuable. For research and development in the field of defence we have written down, and you have confirmed it, 898,8 million PLN. This amount amounts to 2,5% defence expenditure in accordance with the new provisions of the abovementioned Act applying for the first time to planned defence expenditure for 2016. So, ladies and gentlemen, we, the Civic Platform, are capable of caring about public finances, we can plan rationally, respecting the law. I hope that the PiS will not attack the MON budget in the course of the year and allow the planned modernisation expenses for the Armed Forces to be implemented, that you will allow the declared commitments to NATO, the European Union and the NATO Summit in Warsaw to be honoured, which we have also prepared in advance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u57	Thank you very much. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u58	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate shows your intentions. It's very sad, even embarrassing, it comes down to this conclusion: there's no law, that's wrong, because you made empty promises. And it doesn't help to explain that the bill is prepared, it's in a public consultation that we take very seriously. That's what you're deaf to. [[Especially civilian service, very serious.]] [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Six-year-olds.]] There are complex billings - that's also not good, because then it doesn't suit you for some reason, it's also bad. Even where our budget records are a continuation of the previous government's records, it's also wrong. Because we draw from your wisdom, because we, ladies and gentlemen, take things differently, not politically, as it was in the previous terms of the Sejm, that when we put together projects that were good for the citizens, for, even with budget savings, you were in no way willing to lean on it, for the principle you voted against. You use all the opposition clubs today very often, except maybe one, rating agencies' opinions, which is the latter, Standard & Poor. Did you know that in 2015 this agency, Standard & Poors, paid... [[We know, we know...]] ...$1.38 billion to the United States government? For what? For the fact that she overestimated the assessment of mortgage assets and misled citizens. [[But you can sue.]] [[Then let them pay us.]] Do you know that you have also prepared an evaluation for France, which has lowered the rating for France? At that time, American Nobel Prize winner Krugman made it clear in 2013 that this is revenge on a country that protects citizens' interests from the interests of banks. Yeah, it's an agency that's in the hands of the bank lobby. The representative of this agency at the trial, when in court they claimed compensation for the shareholders of the largest energy group in the United States, Enron, for losing millions of dollars of income through these assessments, said simply: Our statements must only be treated as journalistic statements. That's it, and that's it. So I ask you very much not to fuel the atmosphere, because it will not work out well for anybody, and above all for you, and for the unhappiness, I will tell you directly, abroad not necessarily for our friendly environments in this matter... [[Behave yourselves. Behave yourselves, my fellow Member.]] ...ma'am, Mrs Polonist, a public finance expert. [[Member, congratulations. Congratulations.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to make more specific reference to the part of the agricultural budget, because, as you can see, agricultural issues have been ignored in the previous statements. We have great respect for Polish farmers and Polish villages. We are aware of the entire contribution that agriculture is making to our country's construction, to our economy, to our farmers' work for many years, to their burdens, which were not necessarily evenly distributed in society, rather at the expense of farmers, to our economy's construction, to our economy's modernisation. We are also aware that those who live in the countryside, who live in agriculture, have the lowest income. If we are talking about malnourished children, about poverty, we can say briefly, without quoting indicators, that Polish poverty has a face, unfortunately has a face of the Polish village. We are aware of the tasks ahead of us in this regard. Firstly, agricultural markets must be stabilised. The lack of stability in agriculture is worse than low incomes, because production cycles, known, are linked to living organisms and must be those decisions sooner, in advance of annual or higher, taken by farmers. And they cannot be surprised at the fact that they cannot sell production at all or at prices that do not cover costs. So it is a question of the stability of agricultural markets, and it is also a question of the income situation of farmers, the quality of life in the countryside. We are also aiming to improve the functioning of the agencies in the field of agricultural services. In this respect, the Minister for Agriculture has presented it repeatedly, and we have presented it in the election campaign, his plans. There are preparations in this direction to improve and make cheaper agencies that support agriculture, its surroundings or the lives of rural people. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a great problem of unequal conditions of competition in which our agriculture operates compared to Western European agriculture. In this respect, the previous governments have decided, they have agreed to such inequality. This is extremely harmful and unfair, and that is why I hope that the Government of Law and Justice will take such steps in the near future, in order to safeguard the interests of Polish farmers even more in the context of the evaluation of the common agricultural policy. I am firmly convinced of the determination of our government in this regard. The state budget for 2016, in those parts at the disposal of the Minister of Agriculture, namely 32, 33 and 35, contains the amount of income and expenditure which I believe to be real, gives a real basis for carrying out the tasks of the Minister of Agriculture. This is not the budget of our dreams, of course, so much allows the financial possibilities of the state. Well, spending in these parts has been planned for over PLN 8 billion. Together with the KRUS, which will cost PLN 18 billion, expenditure is planned at the level of PLN 27 billion, i.e. 7.23% the total expenditure of the State budget. In addition, EU funds planned to amount to PLN 27 billion, unfortunately by 6% less than in 2015 due to the fact that lower amounts were negotiated under EU funds for Poland. The funds for loans from BGK are several hundred million zlotys, here we have planned an increase of 28%. In summary, all expenditure related to agriculture and rural development will amount to an amount - this is the way it is planned - about PLN 54 billion. I discussed them in detail during my first reading. Overall, the expenditure on agriculture and agricultural markets, despite budgetary difficulties, is about 3% higher than last year, i.e. above planned inflation, and the reduction in expenditure in Part 33: Rural development is due to the fact that the Rural Development Programme 2015 The revenue of the State budget is planned to amount to PLN 900 million, their small increase is planned, which is the result of a shift of revenue from the sale of land of real estate agencies which, as a surplus of the previous year in accordance with the procedure, can be shifted to the current year for 2016. I should like to make a positive assessment - and I would like to express my satisfaction and a great deal of appreciation here, and also to convey this to the Members and to the public - the effects of the actions of the current Minister for Agriculture, who has already activated the reserve for compensation for pigmeat producers. This amount was planned in the special-purpose reserve for co-financing EU programmes of EUR 28.5 million and was transferred to support the pigmeat market, which we could not ask for in the previous management of the Ministry. The Minister of Agriculture is also drawing up a pact for rural areas, which will constitute a programme and at the same time a legal basis for the use of cohesion policy money for the development of agriculture and rural areas. We very much hope that this pact will significantly improve the situation of Polish agriculture next year. It is not, as I said, the budget of our dreams, it is not the budget we dreamed of, it allows the existing financial opportunities of the state - what is possible in this regard, it has been done. For example, for the benefit of farmers, the current government has increased the aid for agricultural fuel by PLN 60 million to PLN 860 million, which will ensure the refund of excise duty contained in the fuel at a higher level than before. As farmers have minimal use of public roads and such reimbursement of larger amounts, larger subsidies simply belong to them and they have been asking for this for years. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget reflects the state of the institutions in the agricultural environment, which is the administrative structure so far. In this respect, there will be changes which will consist of the creation of a single rural agency as a result of the merger of three agencies and the creation of a single food safety institution as a result of the merger of three previous inspections. These changes will already be included in the future budget. During the work in the finance committee, various doubts arose in the agricultural committee, e.g. about the fact that no money was secured for investments in melioration. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the 2016 budget, money is secured for the maintenance of meliorative equipment, but when it comes to investments in melioration, unfortunately the previous team did not ensure that such money was secured under the RDP. Therefore, there is a decision, there is a position of the Ministry of Agriculture, that during the next revision of the common agricultural policy, which will take place in six months' time, return to this issue and simply enforce it or, I will say otherwise, ensure that, for the purposes of melioration, investment in melioration, the funds are secured. There have also been doubts as to whether there is enough money to pay interest on investment loans, or rather why these funds in the budget are smaller than before. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is because of objective reasons, i.e. the decrease in WIBOR rates and the expiry of certain credit lines. This does not mean that when it comes to interest rate subsidies for loans, the conditions will be worse than before. There were also doubts about too little seed resources. On the part of the Minister for Agriculture, we have to ensure that the maintenance of existing quotas should guarantee the application of these subsidies in accordance with the current Regulation, in other words, these measures should be sufficient. There were also doubts about the increase in income, the income of the Agricultural Property Agency next year against the decision taken by the Minister to suspend the sale of agricultural land. We had an explanation on the part of the Ministry that there was no contradiction here. and that this is due to the fact that the budgetary procedure allows, and so far has been done, these surpluses which were obtained in the previous year to be entered as revenue for the Agency in the current year. There is nothing wrong with that and there is no combination. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that with the determination of the Ministry of Agriculture and our support, and I think that in this House we will also find representatives of the Polish society, which is at the heart of the agricultural issue, care about this, many problems of Polish agriculture will be solved. The decisions I have already made, I repeat, in terms of more subsidies for agricultural fuel, in terms of increased fuel... and others, which I have just mentioned here today, as well as 28 million to save the situation of farms, in terms of the ones that produce pork, where the situation is dramatic, show that this agricultural resort is competent and efficient. Let's hope it brings good fruit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u59	Thank you very much. Now please, Mr Jan Szewczak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u60	Dear Members, Dear Marshal, Dear Poles! Your countrymen! Ladies and gentlemen, the debt management strategy of the public finance sector, as well as the forecast of public debt, the cost of debt service are those issues as important to public finances as the issue of revenue, expenditure or government deficit, only that over the past 26 years Poles have been manipulated, deceived, also in terms of public finances, in particular the state of the country's debt and the consequences of this debt for Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, today, after 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and PSL, after years of bumbling and debting Poland to power, the opposition wants to convince Poles that it leaves a blooming country, a land of milk and honey flowing, in fact, economic power. [[Right.]] So what is the real, real state of our sovereign government debt today, the state of foreign debt, the hidden debt or the annual cost of handling this debt in the state budget, after all clearly visible? After all, the service of this public debt in the state budget generates nearly 60% of the deficit that you are complaining about, and which, as the previous government team, you have planned in the same size. In 2007 the public debt amounted to about PLN 530 billion, today it is almost PLN 900 billion, in 2016 this debt is expected to amount to almost PLN 924 billion and then to exceed PLN 1 trillion in 2017. The same is true with the debt of general government, these sizes are also within the limit of PLN 1 trillion of debt. Ladies and gentlemen, the foreign debt of Poland has been brought to astronomical, you can say, size, it is already an amount of over 1 trillion 300 billion, no, 330 billion, 340 billion dollars. But the problem is that this debt is almost 50% is in the hands of foreign entities, please countries, and 30% of this debt is in foreign currencies, while the annual cost of handling the Treasury debt in the state budget is about PLN 32 billion planned for next year. But it was years ago when it was over PLN 40 billion. It's like counting the $8 billion... I am speaking specifically to Mrs Hennig-Kloski, a Mrs Hennig-Kloski, because she is the only one left in the battle square. Mr. Richard Petru, I understand, cheered on his ruby boy out there, probably for the celebrations of the six kings. [[Voice from the room: On TV.]] There are so many proposals he has made here, and I would like to answer that, and I would like to address this, which is why I am looking towards you. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this hidden debt is already a dramatic story, it's said about it, the calculations of some experts say that it's 3 trillion zlotys, so it's huge in size. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say, where, as far as foreign debt is concerned, there is a ruin here, we have absolutely, ladies and gentlemen, a ruin. These are giant debts, over $300 billion. Let me remind you that Gierek borrowed $30 billion, with interest we paid it back 32 years. Then, at least, something was built there, the truth, which later was sold out by those who paid us over $300 billion in debt today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have this theory, I have my own riders in debt apocalypse. I believe there are four horsemen in debt to the apocalypse. The first is Mephisto since the chilling of the Polish economy, i.e. Professor Leszek Balcerowicz, the second is Dracula of the Polish privatisation, i.e. Advisor to Prime Minister Tusk, Mr Janusz Lewandowski, the third is an artist from London, i.e. the Minister of Finance for 7 years, who gave us almost PLN 400 billion of new debt, Mr.John Vincent-Rostowski, and all this was watched by this Herr Ober-Polizeimeister from warm water and haratania to the branch. In my opinion, these people are responsible for these sizes, these numbers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest - today not only Poland, but also the whole modern world needs a new financial architecture. And it is not only on the Polish market that I would say, these two such bloodthirsty twins are crowded, i.e. speculation and debts that cannot be repaid, debts that are often unauthorised, because despite pumping billions of euros, dollars, yen, etc. Since 2008, global debt has increased by 40%. It didn't decrease - it increased by 40%. Unfortunately, Poland was no exception here due to the operation of our riders of the Apocalypse. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that Mr Petru is not here. It is a real shame. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I will pass it on.]] I know that this is at the moment a man caught up as a new Bible scholar, a specialist in the feast of six kings, an expert in ancient history, etc. Well, I understand they're waiting for him everywhere, but... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But President Kaczyński is not here either.]] Mr Kaczyński did not speak on the budget, as far as I was concerned, and I was present in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the president... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Even the chairman of the committee is not here either.]] Why do I want to talk about it? Mr Ryszard Petru gave us a number of proposals here, even talking about his simple plan to repair Poland. I think this plan is as simple as the construction of the hood. Mr President says that the NBP cannot be or should not be used to support government policy, he calls in this plan in the context of the budget. Well, I think Mr Petru doesn't just read about the May bombing very often, but he doesn't seem to be reading about the NBP either. Which is written in the article. 3 point 1 of the Act on the National Bank of Poland? What is the statutory task of NBP, the central bank? This task is formulated as follows: The primary objective of the NBP's action is to maintain a stable price level while supporting the government's economic policy, unless this limits the NBP's basic objective. [[Applause]] Am I misunderstood? Does Mr Petru want to urge the government not to comply with applicable law, because that is the letter of law, the record of the National Bank of Poland? [[Sabotage.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say frankly, with admiration, but I am also embarrassed to look at the nerves that Mr Petru has given us here in the context of the new budget: you do not understand how the economy works. To be honest, I am astonished by the form of addressing us. After all, we try to address you politely, to speak respectablely to the state, to the State of Members, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, if I remember correctly, Mr Richard Petru was an advisor to Mr Leszek Balcerowicz during the rule of the AWS-Union of Freedom. As I recall, Minister Bauca was probably a budget deficit of up to PLN 90 billion. I didn't hear any of his big protests back then, and right now, today, especially, right, he's attacking hard. Ladies and gentlemen, I think so. I would appeal to the opposition, I would ask that we do not scare Poles too much of these rating agencies, the fact that Standard & Poor.s has lowered our rating to BBB+ and that is why carrots and beets will be more expensive. At the same time as Standard & Poor.s lowered this rating, the same agency increased the rating of Greece. I guess they have a little more of this debt-to-GDP ratio than we do, because they've already gone somewhere, and we have a little bit of a different relationship in terms of unemployment, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, the same with Moodys. Don't worry so much. Poles aren't worried at all about Moodys, really, believe me. Let Moodys worry about what the euro area deficit will look like in 2017, how the euro will look like, whether it will be even better, although it is getting worse, ladies and gentlemen. [[It's for us, too.]] The whole world is entering into a scale of uncertainty, I would say, perhaps even some say, the third phase of the crisis that hangs over us, another crack in speculative bubbles, currency wars, please, the new FED policy on the depreciation of emerging markets currencies. Polish gold is one of these currencies, we are included in emerging markets. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 from emerging markets so-called: short-term investors to the portfolio, I would say so in English: those who are the fastest able to access the wallets of individual nations only withdrew 735 billion dollars from these countries last year. It's been the biggest escape of capital for 15 years. In 2016, it does not look better, it is said that there may be another few hundred billion, 400 to 500 billion withdrawn from these countries. I don't think those currency speculators out of love, out of sympathy for the so-called. Democrats will leave their money here and, truth, they won't withdraw the studs if they want to. Ladies and gentlemen, most countries in these emerging markets want to weaken their currencies today. They don't want to be so-called. currency fools. Here we hear suggestions, friendly suggestions to the new government to raise interest rates, strengthen the currency, because it will make us very credible and help us. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a bite to eat. We have $100 billion in foreign reserves. It's a very sweet bite for many, and so to speak, the game is on a lot of instruments to get into these money. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the raw material market is collapsing. We know that the head of the European Central Bank, once a banker, an employee of Goldman Sachs, does not know exactly, seems to me where this common currency and common monetary policy of the European Union leads, but already knows that banking tax in Poland can cause, so to speak, a drain of capital. It's so versatile, isn't it, man, but let's remind you that a few other problems are hanging over us and they will concern us. This is the case of Brexit, this is the case of Greece, which can, however, become the first country to come out of the euro area, because the Greeks are really starting to get tired of it, and 4 million refugees who are waiting for entry, for a European invasion, and it will also not be meaningless for the economic situation of Poland, Europe, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016, as part of gross lending needs, we need to borrow about PLN 180 billion in order to roll our debts. How come we stepped into this toxic debt trap because it wasn't dwarfs and it wasn't Law and Justice that made this foreign debt so gigantic today? It seems to me that this trap was set already in 1997 in the Polish Constitution, including these famous articles. 216, 220, 227, creating the articles of the NBP Act. It was also the work of Mr. Geremek, Mr. Kwasniewski, Mr. Balcerowicz. That's how they prepared this future for us in the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, today we see the same people who have the audacity to scare Poles with the other Greece in a situation when one Minister of the Government of the Civic Platform, Mr.John Vincent-Rostowski, outstanding - I stress - an absolutely outstanding artist from London, one himself gave us nearly PLN 400 billion in debt, when the previous dozens or dozens of finance ministers were unable to do so for the previous almost 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say yes. It is shameful that the more these scandals sold out our national assets under the so-called. privatization - it was to mislead the opponent that we were called privatisation - including greater debts we fell. It doesn't add up, does it? By selling the goods, we should be swamped, and please, if you follow... I don't want to give you these numbers because they're unbelievable, how much of a given year's assets have been sold and how much of our public debt has increased. Ladies and gentlemen, only in 2016 will the bonds to be repaid fall to EUR 2.3 billion, i.e. over PLN 10 billion. And that's what we're gonna have to afford. But when you have to give 17 billion to the 500+ programme, to these children, everyone says that we can't afford it. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I say so, honourable Members, Members of the Civic Platform and Members of the opposition, that not only do the people and the rich deserve democracy. Not just debts to foreign countries You have to pay up. You also have to pay your debts to your own society... [[But give me that bill.]] ...and there's a lot of them, my fellow Member. You have a big, meaningful part in all this. I ask you, in order to gain economic sovereignty, financial independence, we must finally take up the challenge of changing the philosophy of the development of the Polish state, the Polish economy, so that it does not take place mainly or almost exclusively through the increase of debt, [[Applause]] Because this is the way to nowhere, the way to destruction. Foreign debt must be reduced at all costs. There is a need for intensive action in this direction. We need to domesticate this Polish debt, we need to recolonise the banks, but we hear that Modern says that this is not the way. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But not at the expense of falling them.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need to create Polish financial groups, finally important Polish financial entities. It's possible, that's what the treasure minister has talked about many times. First of all, it is necessary to stop the annual discharge from Poland of nearly PLN 90 billion. Because as long as we don't pour into that jug, if it's all holes, it's all gonna leak out of the country, and there's not gonna be that money. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sovereignty of Polish money needs to be restored. Who do I bring back? The National Bank of Poland. Make the central bank mainly create money and credit in Poland, not only foreign banks in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the strength and opportunities of those investors who want to be on the Polish market, foreign investors also need to be exploited. Today, the five largest banks in the world are Chinese banks. We need to get these banks interested. Let them buy Polish bonds. Then we will not be blackmailed by other banks. We'll have the possibility of certain movements, some freedom. That can be done, we have to go in that direction, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, we need to prepare a comprehensive program of extending the Polish state and Polish families. They're already heavily in debt today. If we don't, we will. We will continue, ladies and gentlemen, as slaves in our own country, to be subjected to pressure and foreign blackmail, to be the pledge of a dress on a table at which international cheaters and speculators play for Polish fate, for our future, and with significant cards. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are a piece of dress from which these tailors, speculating tailors, will cut off as much as they want. This is not just a matter of our goodwill and our efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, today more and more nations of the world say such a financial architecture of the world: enough! They do not want to be slaves to globalisation, speculation, exploitation, over-the-counter debts, unpayable debts, often unauthorised debts. They do not want to be enslaved, and they do not want to be enslaved, for we pay dearly for this slavery. Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time for a good change also in terms of Polish debt, especially our foreign debt, whose authors are not ordinary Polish citizens. It's not the average Kowalski who's responsible for those hundreds of billions of dollars in debt. Let us hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the actions of the new government, the new debt management strategy, will create this rational one, so that I say, perspective and opportunity to become economically independent. Finally, I would just like to recall Napoleon's words: whoever saves the nation does not break this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u62	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We hear from this speaker not for the first time that you can find money without raising taxes, and I can say that in your mouth it sounds like a threat. In fact, when we talk about the tax system, however, it is necessary to maintain a balance between the public interest and the interests of the taxpayer. We wanted this balance, we tried to keep our tax system oriented, the tax administration to act to support the taxpayer in fulfilling its tax obligations, assuming that the taxpayer was honest, but at the same time we introduced into this system solutions that would allow us and allow for more effective tax collection. However, we all know that this is not as simple matter as it might seem at first glance. And that's the formula in which we're chasing a bunny in some way when it comes to tax crime, fiscal crime, which finds increasingly advanced ways and methods. And there is no doubt that intensive action must be taken. On the one hand, declarations that there is no need to raise taxes, and on the other hand, you really start by raising taxes. The first actions you have announced in the area of public finances are actually tax increases. You've told me enough that this is not about Poles, it's about bad, bad banks. Today we already know that when it comes to banking tax, it really affects Polish families, Polish entrepreneurs, because they pay this tax, pay through higher margins and higher interest rates on their loans. The second tax, which you have prepared, also speaking about the fact that Poles will not pay it, only large corporations, is the tax in the original version of large-area shops, today we are talking about turnover tax, and this is a classic example from the economics manuals of tax shiftable, shiftable and forward, and backward. To the front, i.e. to the consumer, and to the back, i.e. to the supplier, usually to the Polish supplier, who, contrary to appearances, is not doing so well. So much for that. My colleague will be more concerned with taxes. However, I will refer to a few more comments. Mr. Professor. Żyżyński has made a very accurate and correct observation showing that we have a lot to do when it comes to wages, that we are on the tail when it comes to wage-to-GDP ratio, but you also need a professor, if we want to treat the issue honestly, to realise that this is largely due to the structure of our economy, which is still in transition, that it largely depends on the degree of technological advancement and also on the innovation of the economy. And you can't do this innovation... I am pleased to hear your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, who talks about clusters, about social capital, about trust, which is really the basis for building this capital and, as a result, also clusters, which today are a source of competitiveness of economies in the national dimension around the world. Yeah, except you can't deactivate a cluster. This cluster must, first working on social capital, actually grow and cannot be done overnight. We are still a country that competes on the basis of resources, although our position in this area is clearly improving and changing. Just look at the global competitiveness index and the position of Poland: in 2007 it was 51st place, in 2015.43. But for example. In the 2007 Doing Business ranking we had 75th place, and in 2015 it was 25th, there was a change of 50 seats. I could multiply such examples, pointing out that we, on this path to competition based on innovation, are starting to move faster and faster, and we should soon be in a group of countries that are no longer competing, no longer competing on the basis of resources, and are competing on the basis of innovation, ideas and ideas of their citizens. With regard to the profitability that the professor was talking about, it seems, in relation to the tax, that today the average in Poland is around 4%. Of course, this depends on what industry it is in, but as far as commercial companies are concerned, this profitability remains low. Indeed, transfer prices are a problem, but a few years ago we prepared a transfer pricing law, and we have a special team of people in the Ministry of Finance who deal with these issues. We talk a lot about debt once again by manipulating it. I can tell you that if you miss the truth, at least bow down to it, as you make such accusations against the Minister, Prime Minister Rostowski. However, it is worth trying to make objective assessments without manipulation or abuse. I repeat repeatedly that if we are talking about debt, we must refer it to GDP, first of all. Poland's debt is today one of the lowest in Europe in relation to GDP. As far as debt growth is concerned, it was also one of the lowest in 2008. I don't remember exactly right now, but about 8%. was the increase in Polish debt during this period in relation to GDP, while in Europe it was about 30%. Debt management costs in Poland are falling even though debt is rising. This is due to the assessment of the condition of the Polish economy, as well as the condition of Polish public finances. And here's a few words about ratings that a lot of people have been talking about today. We can't really ignore it because it translates into debt costs. In the short term, it will not hurt us very much, but if these assessments continue, we will be in pain from month to month, from year to year, because - as President Neumann has already said here today - in the longer term 1% with the kind of debt we have, that's almost 10 billion differences in the cost of debt handling. Indeed, it was 45 billion at one time, today it is 32 billion. We hope it's enough if you don't continue to mess with public finances. And consider the fact that these assessments, which are based on certain facts and data, are not astrology, but are economics in which you operate based on accurate data and accurate facts. Although we are still talking about forecasts, they are supported by some actual account. Unfortunately, we, too, have already done directly in the sphere of public finances... We? It was you who did a lot of damage, starting with an amendment of the budget, to no one's unnecessary trick, which was a signal that you were up to something when it comes to Polish public finances. You've increased your deficit, while it wasn't really necessary. Spending rule, stabilizing public finances. Mr Janczyk spoke on this point, saying that we did nothing about liquidity management in terms of public debt management and that we did not carry out actions that would stabilise Polish public finances. The spending rule is an example of what we have done. A modern, numerical spending rule, which you just threw into the basket, practically changing its parameters so that basically the function that it originally had, it doesn't fulfil today. At the same time, we have a signal that we are verifying expenditure on the basis of an inflation target, and revenue - based on forecast inflation, by the way, very much lowering it as far as the projection is concerned. And it gets revenge, it gets revenge on that kind of assessment. The blown-out 2016 budget on the expenditure side and clearly overestimated revenues are also such a signal to the markets, to credit rating agencies that something bad is happening in Poland. And it's not just one agency anymore, because Moodys has kept up to date, but he changed his perspective, pointing out that it's negative. Greece gained in the assessment of Standard & Poor.s mainly because it is implementing its recovery programme. This is why it gained, not because it is in a better situation than Poland, because it is on a completely different level today. And I hope that to such a state and to such assessments as Greece has today, you will not, although I fear very much today for Poland under your rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u63	Thank you. Maria Zuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to ask Members of the Civic Platform to pay more respect to Poles and Polish society... [[Applause]] [[What's the appeal?]] ...because from the beginning of this important debate - a debate in which Poles want to hear something about the future of our economy - they hear scaring from the beginning, as if the PO Members have forgotten what we are working on today. I will remind you: we are working on a document that entered the Marshal's staff last September. This is a document prepared by PO and PSL... [[But we're talking more widely.]] ...and the Government of Law and Justice, as far as possible, has made cosmetic changes to this project. Poles are tired of scaring. They remember a time when they were scared of foreign capital... [[You're scaring me.]] ...when they were scared abroad and capitalism... [[And you're doing the same thing.]] ...and those who scared them sent their children to foreign scholarships. They also remember those who threatened them with Moscow and then gave them martial law. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us talk honestly about the economy, let us talk honestly about what Poles are waiting for in 2016 because we are discussing the state budget for 2016. [[You're very honest about it, very honest about it.]] This is a budget prepared by the government of PO and PSL... [[And broken by the PiS.]] ...to which the government of Beata Szydło made amendments. Amendments which are the answer to the needs of Poles and which were previously announced in the campaign in the Law and Justice programme. Ladies and gentlemen! These amendments, which have been introduced, few amendments, have also been introduced in Part 46: health protection. The government in this part isolated the amount of PLN 66 million and created a new special-purpose reserve for the completion and maintenance of the project.The Electronic Collection, Analysis and sharing of digital resources about Medical Events and the sharing of digital medical registers. Why was this procedure necessary? Because delays in this area require very efficient action to speed up this process. Under the Law and Justice programme, Prime Minister Beata Szydło resigned from continuing the infertility treatment program by means of in vitro fertilisation. This program will be implemented, as we said earlier, by 30 June and its extinction will take place on 30 June. For this purpose, PLN 45 million was allocated. At the same time, in this part of the budget, the government proposes to transfer to the Minister for Health the funds originally planned in the special reserve for the implementation of the National Programme for the Control of Cancer Diseases of PLN 250 million and to provide for the co-financing of projects involving the European Union of PLN 396 000. zł. In addition, it allocates additional funds for grants to medical institutions of 20 million, for medical institutions of 14 million and for the financing of a program of treatment for patients with haemophilia and related bleeding defects of 150 million PLN. In the special reserves it secures the amount of PLN 14 million for the implementation of the Polish procreational health programme and the amount of PLN 6 million for increases for nurses and midwives, of which PLN 4.5 million is allocated to the Ministry of Health, and the amount of less than 2 million will be the responsibility of the voivodships. A major change introduced by the Government of Law and Justice has been included in the special reserve in item 1. 83 in which funds of PLN 120 million were secured for medicines for people aged 75 years and over. Do these changes meet health needs? Of course not. The state in which the government of Beata Szydło took over health care after 8 years of government of PO and PSL, show the number of amendments tabled, among others. to this part of the budget by Members of the Civic Platform. By the way, for more than 280 total amendments made about 95% the amendments are by the Members of the POs. This shows that they are aware of the state in which they leave our economy. At the same time, they have a kind of judgment as to what needs to be changed in this respect. Prime Minister Kopacz herself has tabled about 13 amendments to her budget for the total amount, ladies and gentlemen, PLN 1230 million. What does that say? It's a budget that her government is responsible for. Let me remind you that the budget for health protection is over PLN 7 billion, and therefore the scale of the needs that the Prime Minister sees is enormous. It's a pity she hasn't seen these needs in eight years of government in this country. To the budget section 46: Health protection of the PO Members submitted 27 amendments for the amount of more than PLN 550 million. They thus show that they know well the areas of their negligence. Minister Arłukowicz himself signed six amendments in this regard. [[Horrible.]] Does this provide a positive opinion for this budget prepared by the Platform and PSL? Today, when making amendments, they want to save the situation in county hospitals through their modernisation, expansion, accessories. They want to redeem their sin of negligence in relation to clinical centers, but is it possible to correct so many years of negligence worth even tens of millions of zlotys? Reading, High Izbo, in these amendments, you can read that Members of the Platform have great remorse for the negligence made in the field of medical rescue. This is demonstrated by the number of amendments tabled in this regard. The question arises as to what made the Platform Members see these needs today. Did the loss of power wash their eyes out, make their hearts sensitive? God forbid it lasts forever. What inheritance did Prime Minister Beata Szydło receive from the Civic Platform and PSL government? This is what we talked about at first reading, when we pointed out that unfortunately, but in terms of health care, the number of negligence is enormous. This is evident, among other things, in this regard. Long-term visits to doctors, low salaries of nurses, poor drug management, and a small number of specialist doctors testify to this. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to one more phenomenon. What do you call a situation when doctors, young doctors, after graduating, really, to stay on the market, take jobs not for starving wages, but for volunteering? It's just slavery. Years of college, and what does it turn out to be? That when they enter the labour market, they get the answer: Do you want a practice? You're welcome, but don't count on your salary. A rich graduate of the medical academy whose parents will continue to fund their living takes up this effort, and those who do not have rich parents pack their bags and leave. This is the answer, ladies and gentlemen, to the question of how well we have health protection in our country. And today we're looking for answers. Why are there no specialist doctors? That they're soulless, that they want their fortunes in the short term? And here it really means that they are in this democratic country, built for eight years by the Civic Platform and the PSL, slaves of the 21st century. And we should talk about these things today, ladies and gentlemen. [[And what's in the budget?]] How do we eliminate it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u65	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I don't know if you're in the O.R. High Izbo! I'll start with Mrs. Zuby. You have called on us to respect Poles, so I would like you to start, as regards this respect, from yourself, because if someone is challenging their political opponents from Communists, thieves, if someone is talking about their political opponents, that they are blubbering, thus comparing them to pigs, it is really difficult to take seriously any appeal for respect. So start with each other. [[Applause]] As for the topic of today's debate... [[Voice from the hall: Who said that?]] Deputy Minister What did he say about it two days ago? So don't be outraged, just start respecting Poles, your political opponents too. As for today's debate, which is about the budget, I am so convinced that you have adopted the method that is really appropriate for a few years old children, that means that if I don't see something, I don't think that there is. The effect is that not only are you not able to respect the facts, but you are not able to respect the people who will later have to implement the decisions you make. So far you are unable to see the facts or the effects of your actions that you have not even noticed that you should make an adjustment in the budget because you have introduced a law very quickly withdrawing the reform of six-year-olds. You're actually pretending that the financial effects... [[Because society didn't want this reform.]] ...there will be no reform. Just because you don't want to see it or you can't see it doesn't mean it's not there. Of course, the effect of reversing the reform on six-year-olds will be and you will see the first results as early as March when there will be a pre-school call. This must be borne in mind - and the Ministry of Finance usually accepts pessimistic scenarios - that the withdrawal of this reform will result in the dismissal of teachers, will result in a situation in which you will require local governments to place themselves in kindergartens, and those places in kindergartens will not be, will have a very serious financial impact, far beyond the 80 million zlotys that the state has written in this correction of the budget. 80 million PLN is a pessimistic scenario, which should be established for the city of Warsaw itself, and Warsaw is not the only city in Poland. The consequences of this will be far-reaching. And I would very much like you to finally decide to respect the facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u67	Thank you. Mr Jacek Sasin, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When analysing the draft budget submitted to the High House, budget expenditure which is extremely important from the point of view of the functioning of the state, including our security, national defence and public administration expenditure, must be leaned on. Let me start with a few comments on budget expenditure on public administration. This budget is another budget which provides for an increase in expenditure on public administration. This is a trend that has persisted for many years, which is somewhat disturbing and which makes questions about the purpose of these expenses. The dynamics of this growth are increasing, i.e. from year to year the amount of funds allocated to public administration is increasing. This increase in 2014 compared to 2013 was less than 1.5%. As early as the following year, in 2015, compared to 2014 it was over 2%, exactly 2.25%. This year it is an increase of 4,45% So we see this dynamic. Of course, we are aware that this budget is the budget that the Government of Law and Justice inherited from the previous government. Public administration is an area where it is difficult to expect rapid changes, rapid measures to reduce these expenditures within such a short period of time as has passed since the parliamentary elections which led to the new government, until that date when the budget for the next year had to be submitted to the High House. This increase in the current year is mainly conditional on the need to freeze wages in the budgetary sphere and what was also written in the law adopted in the previous term, i.e. the creation of also new institutions, such as the Polish Space Agency, a further institution which, however, requires additional funds, also financial. We know this from the statements of the members of the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, that the intention of the Government of Law and Justice is to stop this growth in the coming years, I am convinced that this will happen. What needs to be emphasised as an important argument at the moment is that this level of expenditure on public administration, which has been planned in the budget by the previous government, is not increasing in this budget, despite the serious changes in public administration with the adoption of an amendment to the Civil Service Act and the associated possibility of personal changes in administration, those personal changes which are necessary due to the need to professionalise public administration, to open it to new staff, to young people, often very well educated, who in this existing system have not been able to find their place in public administration. These are the circumstances that, I think, will very well affect the quality of this administration, and finally these changes make the public administration more open, less closed - the public administration, especially in this steering layer, will not become, as before, a closed almost corporation, but will be a professional area open to recruitment of new, professional personnel. Despite such a fundamental change in the administration's operation, this does not entail a change in additional budgetary costs, i.e. a change in the budgetary resources planned so far. I must say to speak because when I listened to this debate, I was particularly struck by the accusation that was made by President Skowronska on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. She said that there was no savings, that the government did not introduce savings in the administration, especially the President of the Republic of Poland's office was stigmatized, whose expenses were saved at the same level as last year. Well, I wanted to say that the fact that there are no savings in this area, that is, among others. the outcome of the previous presidential administration, which has allocated this increased funding actually far from the standards we could expect. Many of these necessary changes which had to take place in the President's Office of the Republic of Poland due to the change of the main person in this office, that is, the President... [[Nasty attitude, nasty.]] ...must have been postponed to the new financial year, which is what Mrs Skowrońska said... [[It's just disgusting what you're doing.]] ...which justified the increase in expenditure last year, it could not have been due to the various irregularities that occurred at the office of President Bronisław Komorowski, which describes the audit carried out by the new administration... [[Unsubstantiated, disgusting, untrue, lying charge. It's disgusting.]] ...after the election, which among others. pointed out cases such as the case of one of the clerks who was fired just before the presidential election, just before the presidential campaign, received a briefing in order to be able to work in the electoral staff of President Bronisław Komorowski, and immediately after the election she was rehired in a high position in the clerk's office and received a very high salary. Such activities include: it has caused that it is not possible to reduce funds for the President's Office this year, in so far as this outrage is concerned about the lack of savings in this area. As regards national defence, it is worth noting that this defence budget is the first budget to implement the principle of a 2% share of national defence resources compared to GDP in the budget. This causes us to see a very clear increase in resources for defence, this is growth. at almost 9%, slightly over 8%, 8.28% In absolute figures, this is almost PLN 3 billion extra money for national defence. I don't think anyone needs to be convinced that this increase in spending is actually something very desirable and positive. We live in a world that is far from being able to call it a safe world, and our security, the security of our citizens, our country is invaluable, and here, as far as possible, our budget should ensure that these defence funds are as high as possible and at the same time that they are best spent. Ladies and gentlemen! I very much welcome the fact that this budget implemented by the Ministry of National Defence, the defence budget, is not only higher by the amount I was just talking about, but also by the structure of this budget is significantly different from the structure of the existing budgets. This means much more money has been spent on pro-development activities, and not just on maintaining the current state of the Armed Forces, which means much less money is consumed, on maintaining the current state, which is often a state far from our expectations, for example in terms of structure. We have indeed an entirely unstoppable amount of these highest general charges in relation to the overall quantitative state of the Armed Forces, so here this structure must be gradually changed and of course it is necessary to modernise the Armed Forces. As far as the latter issue is concerned, the increase here is very clear and this increase over the previous year exceeds 20% budgetary expenditure. In absolute figures it is over 1.5 billion new zlotys. It is important - and we will, as I think, not only be interested, but we will also look at the defense department - that otherwise than in the previous year, and I am convinced that this will happen, than in previous years, these funds were actually spent on the modernisation of the Armed Forces, because in previous years, between 2008 and 2015, almost PLN 12 billion, which were intended for the modernisation of the Armed Forces, were not actually spent on this modernisation. This is very bad, because it really reduces the level of security of Poland and this trend must change in the near future. So, to sum up, as far as the defence budget is concerned, it is a good budget, a development budget, a budget which guarantees us finally the level of expenditure and the structure of expenditure that will make Poland much safer than before. This budget also guarantees the quantitative expansion of the Armed Forces. If you pay attention to the increase in personal resources, it is not just the money for increases for professional soldiers, it is necessary, because they must happen, but it is also an increase in professional soldiers by 1500 soldiers. Finally, I will say that these are actions related to the creation of new military units that will be located in the eastern areas of our country - precisely three new brigades, which will be formed in the eastern areas of our country - and an increase of 100 personnel officers of the Military Intelligence Service. This is also extremely important in the situation of particular threats facing our country, and also in view of the need to form a special unit to protect the base of the US ballistic missile defence system in Redzikow. Additional funding for training, including professional soldiers, is also something worth noting. All of this will result in our Armed Forces as a result of the implementation of this budget being forces that will be able to better protect Poland's security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u69	Thank you. Mr Paweł Olszewski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The draft of this budget is appalling. You spend money you don't have yet. It can't hold. I will speak briefly because many more speakers from my club will be present, and I will focus on infrastructure issues. The programme of construction of national roads, which the previous government, Ewa Kopacz, approved on 8 September, with a record value of PLN 107 billion, fortunately for the time being, in terms of formal decisions has not been changed by the governments currently. However, both Minister Adamczyk and Szmita's public statements are a source of concern, to say the least, because it is clear from these statements that there is a desire to limit the real investment that has been included in the National Road Construction Programme. Many times I have asked questions to the Ministry, which the government of Beata Szydło plans to delete from the investment. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. I hope that perhaps today, during your reply, you are willing to give this answer. But there are also concepts that are extremely disturbing to change the principles of road building, namely to move away from what we have built, i.e. expressways, highways, two lanes in two directions, for 8 years. The state is trying to make two plus one. In any European civilized country, you don't do anything like that. I would therefore like you to refer to this and to make it clear that the investments you want to stop and which investments you want to make qualitatively worse by building two plus one as standard. Another extremely important thread is the issue of rolling stock. We still announced in September and October, and the State has the resources to do so through the privatisation funds of PKP Energy, that ultimately these funds are intended to be used for the recapitalisation of the PKP group in order to continue the purchase of new rolling stock. You have signed contracts where you can order a new rolling stock without tendering procedures. The question is, are you going to do this? If so, when? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u71	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! An important task of the state, sanctioned in the 2016 budget, is the co-financing of Polish education and educational care. The funds for these tasks are mainly included in the educational subsidy. A general subsidy of PLN 53 billion is planned for JST, which represents 14.4% State budget expenditure. The increase in this subsidy compared to 2015 is 3.3%. This is an increase above planned inflation. This is good information for Polish local governments. The largest part of the general subsidy is the educational part, which is planned to amount to PLN 41.5 billion, i.e. 1120 million more than in 2015. In addition, funding for educational and educational tasks was planned in part of the 30th budget of PLN 411 million, of which over PLN 352 million was earmarked for education and education, including for Polish education abroad - 39 million PLN. Further funding for education and education is planned in part 85: voivodeships' budgets, a total of PLN 185 million, of which PLN 164 million is allocated to education curatoria, and for colonies, camps, other forms of recreation for children and young people - PLN 27 million. Further funding for educational and educational tasks has been planned in the special reserve, the largest of which is 52nd reserve of 1670 million - to increase the availability of pre-school education. In section 801, PLN 862 million is planned for artistic schools, auxiliary education units, teacher education, school and preschool canteens. Ladies and gentlemen, the high position in the state budget is part 38: Higher education. In this part expenditures of over PLN 12.5 billion were planned, of which nearly PLN 10.4 billion were planned for teaching activities and 1.6 billion were planned for material aid to students and PhD students. In heading 29: National defence also planned funds for higher education, for military universities of PLN 246 million, and in section 46: Health was secured the amount of PLN 1785 million also for higher education. The special expenditure on higher education is PLN 18 million in Part 39: Transport for the training of civil aviation pilots. At this point, I am asking the authorising officer of this part of the budget to increase this subsidy because another university has been given the authority to train pilots without securing additional resources. An important item in the State budget shall be the special provisions. The total amount of the special-purpose reserve shall be in the 2016 budget. 22 225 million PLN and is higher than the reserves in the revised 2015 budget law by more than 18%. Of the 83 special-purpose reserves, 14 new ones were created. Among these new reserves, PLN 100 million is planned in item 69. as a supplement to the police, Border Guard, State Fire and Government Protection Office's expenses in connection with the visit of the Holy Father during World Youth Days. In item 70, 800 million are planned for the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure for the years 2016 and 2019. This reserve was planned due to the demand of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. In heading 73, provision for systemic changes and certain organisational changes are planned, inter alia. in view of the demand of 549 620 thousand. zł reported by the Ministry of Health and voivodships. The largest reserve is planned among the new reserves in item 77 of the total amount of 1.7 billion for the implementation of the Law on State Aid in Child Education. The reserve was planned due to the needs of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. These funds will be transferred to voivodships for the implementation of the state aid law prepared by the government in raising children, among others. for the payment of an educational allowance of PLN 500 per child per month. In item 78. a reserve of PLN 21.5 million is planned for compensation by voivods for property acquired under pipelines which are investments associated with the construction of the gasport in Świnoujście. This reserve was notified by the Ministry of the Treasury. In item 79, a new reserve of PLN 8 million was entered for the maritime authorities to carry out the drawing-up work at the request of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. On the initiative of the Minister of Finance, provision 80 was created: Supplementing funds for the payment of pension benefits and 1410 million for one-off monetary expenditure for certain pensioners, pensioners and other persons entitled to these allowances. A total of nearly PLN 2 billion was planned for this reserve, namely PLN 1848 million. The funds secured in this reserve will be used for one-off cash allowances for certain pensioners, pensioners and beneficiaries of pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits and to supplement the funds for the payment of pension benefits. In order to safeguard flexible funding possibilities in this area, a reserve under heading 85 was also established: the National Programme for the Development of Reading, priority 3, of PLN 30 million, reserve 82: Provision of seats with adaptation to the needs of the prosecutor's office units in the amount of PLN 31 million and finally reserve 83: Medication appropriations for persons aged 75 years and over PLN 125 million. [[3 zł.]] This reserve was entered in the State budget by the Minister for Health. Financial resources from this reserve are planned for tasks related to the implementation of the planned new regulation aimed in particular at introducing free medicines for people aged 75 years or over. These reserves give rise to the great concern of the government for those with the weakest economic position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of my speech, I appeal to the Minister of Finance for the urgent resumption of work on a new bill on the income of local government units. The previous law, which is from 2003, does not take into account new circumstances, does not take into account new tasks carried out by the local government in Poland, for example that since 2004 we are beneficiaries of European aid, the local government is implementing 2/3 of public investment in Poland. New tasks are still being transferred to the local government, often without funding, which is unprotected by financial means. Work on this law was started in the first half of last year. A team was formed at the Ministry of Finance, in which among others. representatives of all local authorities worked. I call for this work to be resumed, because only the new law on the income of local government units can properly secure the tasks that this public sector is carrying out. Returning to the draft budget, I find that the funding allocated to subsidies to local government is too low in securing its needs. Ladies and gentlemen, state spending is rising by 9.5%. in the budget of this year, while subsidies for local government units - only 3.3%. The local government does not contribute in a proportionate way to the increase in revenue and expenditure of the State budget. And so on. the compensatory part for local governments of voivodships increases only by 2,5% and regional declines by almost 2%. Grants for tasks contracted by local government units are too low to be planned. The costs of amending the Education Act are too low in education subsidies. That's what we've been talking about today. There is no valuation of the costs that local government units will have to bear when implementing law 500+. It is also a huge effort for local government, not only organizational but also financial. The draft law does not take into account the loss of income of local government units in the event of an increase in the tax-free amount. Work on this law has been started, while nothing is said about compensation for local governments for this, and this loss can reach almost PLN 8 billion per year. In conclusion, I ask the Minister of Finance once again to urgently start working on a new bill on the income of local government units. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u75	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Dear Government! Girls! Hey, guys! I have 10 minutes, very little, and the subject is so wide and multilateral. I have to choose something. I think the closest one is, however, a little bit referring to the predecessor, the topic 500+. It's no surprise to anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, sleep. President Lech Kaczyński once said before the election in his campaign - this was what he said to me, which is the banner, is such a motto, one can say, and probably for all of us, which should at least be strange - just commenting on the situation in our country and judging the transformation, he said that progress and great positive change are obvious, not subject to discussion. It can be seen with the naked eye, there is another country, another world, otherwise Poland and Poles live, [[Applause]] But... [[We're not in the Union?]] I didn't finish. It was just a comma. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But at the same time the entire social, professional and territorial groups - he said - did not participate, feel marginalized, feel often injured, alienated in the transformation process. And he pinned it all down with a declaration that he would do everything to ensure that these professional, social, territorial groups - we are talking about Poland A and Poland B - participate to a greater extent in the fruits of growth. [[Applause]] It's such a beautiful word, such diplomatic. And that's what it's all about, and it's going to be a fight in Poland. And this is a real and real dispute. This is where you asked for local governments. I've been in government for eight years. Indeed, this is a very serious problem, who gets caught up in it and who doesn't get caught up in it. GDP growth is, average growth. This is the dictatorship of statistics and averages. It's worth talking about. We need to rehabilitate the median, not the average, the average, and the average. Poles who went to school know. Medium, middle-- ladies, who's got an average? However, a situation where 3/4 of the working population earns less than the average is a concrete fact. Median - 3.1 thousand, average - 4,000. And on this background, in this context You need to see this case 500+. Listening carefully to criticism, to the words of a very strong criticism, and I do not know whether it is always kind, but certainly very often wrong, ladies and gentlemen, I would really appeal to the opposition: do not rush us, do not... we hurry slowly, because this is a very important subject, he has many aspects. The consultation that is currently taking place is not painted. I took part in this in the offices of the voivodship offices, for example in Gdańsk. However, in all municipalities employees of social assistance centres are people who know life best, they are living on a daily basis. This 500+ issue - let us be honest and we must say it clearly - it is not only a great hope and a great opportunity, it is also a lot of concerns, doubts and threats. We can't eliminate pathology, but we have to do everything we can to limit this pathology. I'm talking about the situation of families who will be able to take this aid as a distraction. That's why some records... We're working on it, we're doing it fast, we're calling for good ideas to be shared. One of the big problems, I don't hide... I myself am in favour of this, although in the original version of this project it was not found, but the subject is open. Minister Rafalska, in an interview with the Polish Republic, said clearly: We do not change the options and assumptions, we consult. If the majority of the population were clearly in favour of making a profit threshold... We're talking about the threshold of a few thousand per person, not the family... [[Thousands, I think.]] ...so about very wealthy people for the Polish reality. [[But $1,000. Evil is the threshold I think...]] 800 PLN for the first child. And today's threshold for family benefits, we know very well, here are colleagues from the social policy committee, that's a very low threshold. But there are children, and there are not so few, who live in families with more than 2,000 or 3,000 income. per person. They're what we're talking about right now. And if it could only be up to 5% Children, this already gives us the number of over PLN 300,000, 2 billion. Why am I saying this? Because there is another aspect. The original assumption is to be 18 years old. But my dear ones, where, as where, but in the Seym we know well - always the Polish Sejm leaned over education - that there is a dramatic situation, if someone turns 18, parents have no means, no money, there is a barrier to access to knowledge and to learning. Today's system for family allowances clearly states: up to 18 years, unless the young man continues his education. And then we have... [[It's not there.]] There's no more... It's even longer, right? Up to 24 years old... [[No, no, no, it's not, definitely not.]] There's no benefit if he continues his studies, right? So right now, he's coming in... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Magda, you're not talking right. Because the Member says there isn't one in your project.]] It's not on our project. I say, in the current system of family benefits. Very precise. Everything's listed and written, and all I'm missing is time for this argument. [[And there's family benefits.]] Okay. But let's be precise. There is a postulate, among others. on the part of trade unions, however, to extend the 500+ programme to those who are over 18 years old, to young people who want to continue learning. There's something to discuss. I also hope very much from this point of view that not only thousands of local governments will take the floor in this discussion, because they consult, we talk to them about how to do it, to reduce the risk of pathology, but at the same time to make it the most effective. The problem whether or not to be a threshold is also a very big problem of nature not only financial, not only political, but also an ethical problem. As long as there are areas in our country, and they are, very embarrassing... I am talking here about the fact that almost half a million pensioners - we have recently had a discussion about this one-off modest amount - these are people who receive retirement at the minimum threshold. This is, ladies and gentlemen, PLN 880 gross, PLN 750 per hand, for everything, for an apartment, for medicine, for life and for entertainment. As far as this problem is concerned, we have tried to make a number of changes, at the very least, through quota advantages, in different ways. But it is also mentioned by the tax-free amount that in Poland people who live below the social threshold pay income tax. This is an abnormal situation. We're saying 16%. , according to various studies from 11 to 16% patients don't buy drugs because they can't afford it. We're talking about young marriages. Here's the program. The platform wants 800 million, interesting, but that's the problem, actually. We are talking about young people who are not creditworthy and who cannot afford credit - own resources, stable work. So you have to turn to the weakest ones. It's easy to be good, it's hard to be fair. You know, no one can set the line of justice on this topic we're talking about, but it's very easy to say what's unfair. I am appealing in this ongoing discussion, however, to the fact that Poland is not yet such a country, we are not yet at the stage of such development and prosperity, so that we can afford to make significant, very large, let's say, relatively resources to the rich and very rich people. I'm not talking about middle-income people. The great majority, unfortunately, is under the threshold. We are a country of huge social differences, and that is a fact. At the same time, many other problems await us just not to speak. I therefore appeal and encourage discussion on the 500+ programme and ask not to indulge, but to be understanding for our efforts, because the discussion is very, very important and important. I think that in this discussion there will also be social, scientific and religious authorities, because the problem has many aspects, and we also remember the principle that 100 times it is easier not to give than to take away. Today, when we look behind us, when we can see good and bad things, we remember how decisions once made are difficult to undo later, so it is better to think three times and do once. I think the Poles understand that, and that's why it's not a delay. They just waited twenty years, we have now, on 12 February there will be three months of the new government, so I would ask very much to get involved in this discussion and that it not become the subject of a primitive political struggle, because it is indeed a matter, a subject which is very, very important. If we are talking about other subjects, please, Mr Kukiz has also mentioned here the subject of the subscription. This is a topic for the media, finance and legislative committee, because this pate is cutting. The issue we are talking about is not only political, that the media, that there are changes. We are also talking about the financial collapse of public media, and this has its roots far, far back. Unfortunately, it is not worth reminding yourself, but tragic and scandalous was the statement of the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who used the phrase: we have to end it - he said - with this shameful tribute. It's an opportunity for the Prime Minister of a democratic state to say so. Many citizens have taken it to heart, stopped disgrace and stopped paying their subscription. Now, after years, the bailiffs are pulling off those people who acted in good faith, because as a disgrace, they stopped. And we have a very complicated situation, because the bailiff is charging 800 million, because there were more television influences, 400 million are drawn from the past with interest. How do you feel - and what do you do with them - who paid? These are the most reliable citizens who have paid consistently, and now they are often called losers. Time's up. Anyway, this is an example. A little from another story, another theme, but it also shows what is common - the consequences of mistakes. We want to avoid these mistakes, so we appeal, we ask you to join this [[♪ The bell ♪]] a very expected discussion, and so that it is not only good, but also fair. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u77	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget is actually an opportunity for a cross-cutting analysis of the functioning and programming of the whole country. I would like to focus on the income side, in fact on taxes, on some aspects of the functioning of taxes. The most important conditions for collecting appropriate tax revenues, which will serve to finance budget expenditure, are good tax rules relating to individual taxes, good general tax law, i.e. what we have in the Tax Office, and the constant improvement of tax legal solutions, because on the one hand, practice checks the functioning of the rules, while on the other hand, tax offences, fraud, which also require the legislator's response, occur, as we know. These are the three terms of the law itself. Of course, an efficient tax administration is also needed. Today's countries face huge problems concerning the collection of both direct taxes, including primarily income and indirect taxes, i.e. value added tax, the Polish version of which is tax on goods and services, and excise duties. These problems have not been missed by Poland. Their solution requires not only the particular efforts of the state authorities, but also their cooperation with the scientific community, the environment of widely understood practices and finally taxpayers themselves. There is no doubt that our tax law requires improvement and sometimes even profound changes, profound changes. Its functioning also requires constant monitoring. Actions in this area should be taken further this financial year, in the course of the implementation of this budget. Perfection requires regulation relating to income taxes, significant changes require tax on goods and services, and rewriting requires Tax Ordination. These provisions, their projects, should be prepared with the utmost care and adopted with full respect for the principles of legislation and legislative procedures, unlike the last tax. There is no doubt that the acquis should be used in this respect, firstly, by the General Tax Law Codification Commission, secondly, by the Tax Law Consultative Council at the Minister of Finance. The membership of the codification committee included representatives of science, judges, administrations and practitioners, and the membership of the consultative board was somewhat narrower. It should be stressed that both the committee and the board have a great deal of work to do. The Commission has prepared the orientations of the Tax Order. It is a comprehensive document, 160 pages, these are already concrete solutions, there are no general assumptions. It's for use. The creators of directional assumptions have adopted two objectives: to improve the efficiency of tax collection and to improve the protection of taxpayers' rights. The consultative board also has a rich track record, which has adopted 11 resolutions on specific legal solutions. In addition to the opinion, the resolution contains proposals for solutions, including e.g. proposals for solutions to limit the possibility of VAT fraud. They are. This is a resolution from August 20th last year. The Ministry of Finance reached the committee's achievements only as regards the anti-tax avoidance clause. That's all the minister was interested in. Briefly, the request is to reach out to the achievements of the committee and the council, to use both. Moreover, the committee and the council should continue to function because they are now in such a suspension. Question to the Minister of Finance: Does the Minister of Finance intend to use this work? And secondly, will the committee and the council continue to function? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u79	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Unfortunately, I only have a minute. I would like to comment on many of the topics that have been raised here today in such a rich discussion, but there is no time for this. So it's a question that's been bothering me for a long time. I used to speak more extensively in this room. Let's give it up for these starving children, because it's really not a mass phenomenon, and we're still making fun of each other. The Prime Minister talked about it again a few days ago. You haven't made any improvements in the state budget on this subject, so that it doesn't really exist, and you repeat it like a mantra, like a litany. Similarly with regard to the State Forests. I thought that this topic - at least this one - wouldn't sound, because it's a crazy lie, you made it up for the election campaign, and you're still changing it by chance. Nobody privatized the woods. The greatest dislike for legal approval of this subject was from you, not elsewhere. And even after this elevated speech by Mrs Masłowska on agriculture, I would simply like to ask PiS, knowing the very difficult situation in terms of pig feed, milk and milk products, if you would support this, I would like to ask you, the amendment we want to make, we have brought - 300 million to increase the material reserves just for pig feed, milk [[♪ The bell ♪]] and dairy products - because there is a catastrophic price that has persisted for a long time. If we don't help farmers in this assortment, it's gonna be really bad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u81	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I am very pleased about Mr Tadeusz Cymanski's speech, who said: Let us think, I ask for criticism - benevolent, honest. Mr President, I heard in the election campaign: 500 PLN per child. If today's Prime Minister, and recently the Vice-President of the Committee on Public Finance, made this declaration, so universal and so public, she had to make it on the basis of reliable calculations. If she didn't do it, it's a lack of professionalism. If she did, and yet she said: 500 PLN per child, she was missing the truth. That's the first thing. Second thing. You were talking about justice. I was caught up by my mom standing in line with me at the store: 'What is it like, Member? I have three children. Two's in college, three's 12. My husband and I have 5,000 zlotys of income. We'll get nothing. Neighbors next door have an income of PLN 8000, two children under the age of 18 and will receive PLN 500. It's neither good nor fair. The direction you have chosen on this issue is right: it is certainly necessary to help Polish families raise their children. But shouldn't the password "500 PLN for each child" be withdrawn today? Shouldn't you consider today how to do this to make things right and fair and to really support those who need it the most? In this respect, you can count on the friendly criticism and cooperation of the Civic Platform. I have even better news for all of you: there is no word in this budget, not a penny in terms of withdrawing pension reform. This is good news for pensioners and pensioners. Your pensions and pensions are safe as far as they are concerned. Last sentence. I am pleased that all the good things introduced by the Platform and PSL into family policy have been maintained in this budget. That's good news. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u83	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Cymanski said: 100 times it is easier not to give than once to take away. But there's a social group you don't have any scruples from. You're taking money in vitro today. From 1 July 1.5 million Poles struggling with the problem of infertility will be left to themselves only because you do not understand them, you do not want to understand them, you are afraid of modernity, you are afraid of what science has achieved. You're based only on ideology. On 15 January this year, 4200 children - 4200 children - were born from the in vitro program we created - and you brutally say: Enough! Stop! We do not want this in Poland. I want to tell you - Mrs Zuba has already said this - that I have tabled amendments. I'm gonna keep it up to date because you don't have the right to discriminate against these people, point the finger at them as the worse ones. These people had state aid, and you brutally take it only because you don't understand them, respect them, and you don't want to understand them. The amount of PLN 125 million for medicines for patients 75+. A lot, and anyone who understands that knows that it's really a drop, it's a symbol. We have 3 million people over the age of 75. If we divide this 125 million PLN into 3 million patients you want to give drugs for free - you say you give them drugs for free - it turns out that you give them 3.47 PLN per patient per month. If you hadn't introduced this program at all, because it just doesn't exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u85	Thank you. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform. [[Add one minute of kindness, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Neither did we.]] [[Voice from the hall: What, today is promotion day?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to fit in those tens of seconds. I am the last one to speak in the budget debate and I would like to say that I believe that this debate should not be at all. It is not enough, in my opinion, that the Committee on Public Finance should not accept the report on the draft budget, because every income, every expenditure in the budget should have a legal basis, while the budget contains revenue and expenditure that does not have a legal basis. Revenue issues have already been mentioned here on several occasions with regard to the tax on large-scale shops. There was a bank tax that was bad because it was bad, but it worked, but when it comes to spending, unfortunately we have some kind of disaster at all. Program 500+. The Prime Minister assured me that she had the designs in her briefcase. There's no sign of that yet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are a number of other expenditures that are also not reflected in existing legislation, and we should not adopt this budget now. We should wait for all these laws to be drawn up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u87	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the second question. Time - one and a half minutes. I'm asking you not to step in. Mrs Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. The floor is voiced by Mrs Alicia Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to talk to you about an undertaking that should be completed in Lower Silesia, specifically in Wroclaw. Namely, it is the extension of the University Clinical Hospital, or actually the completion of this construction which was started 30 years ago. Last year, the construction of the oncology and paediatric hematology clinic was completed and the construction was closed... It is the building of building C, where there will be a cross-regional center of pediatrics, a cross-regional center of oncology. This is really very necessary, really needed by the three voivodships: Dolnośląskie voivodship, Lubuskie voivodship and Opole voivodship, where such a multi-specialist institution connected to the hospital, to the teeth equipped with modern apparatus, where high-class specialists work, where there are plenty of professors, because it is a university... This hospital belongs to the Medical University of Wroclaw. And I wanted to ask the government if there was money for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u89	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor. There's no envoy. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the costs of operating the 500+ program. This scheme has been secured in the state budget with bank tax, bank taxation, while you also provide such information on the website that, in connection with the operation of this scheme, there will be a need for employment of around 7000 officials. Local governments are raising the alarm at this point because they don't know what form you want to implement this program. From my preliminary calculations it appears that with the number of employees who would serve this programme, on average, assuming that the minimum national salary is PLN 1850 gross, it gives the total cost of the employer approx. 2200 PLN, i.e. on a monthly basis it is about 15 million PLN. And now, of course, we do not yet know when this programme will be implemented. Has this money for these new employees been included in the budget? That's my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The planned expenditure for the National Election Office deserves to be taken into account in the 2016 State budget. I want to remind you here that they are in two positions. In Part 11 the amount of over PLN 90 million is planned for the National Election Office. In Part 83: Purpose reserves in item 17 for the National Election Office is the amount of over PLN 137 million. In total, how easy to summarize, there is a reserved amount of more than PLN 227 million. I know that, within this amount, electoral committees are to be equipped with these colourless ballot boxes, for which we have decided that there is an up-to-date record of voters, that there may be additional elections there, but I still think that this amount of almost PLN 230 million is a lot of money. I dare ask you for what specific purposes, for which tasks these funds will be used. Isn't PiS planning on making the local elections? On what grounds? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For all we know, the cadence of no self-government this year doesn't end. So my question is: What will the funds be used for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u93	Thank you. Mr Richard Galla, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the first reading of the 2016 draft budget, I asked a question, among others. on the budgets of voivodships with particular regard to heading 921: Culture and the protection of national heritage - voivodship conservationists of monuments. In this regard, I received a response from the Ministry, for which I thank you very sincerely, but the content of this reply is not entirely consistent with a certain reality or procedure that occurs in the construction of the budgets of monument conservationists. However, I would like to remind you that this takes place between three ministries: the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The Voivodeship is building this budget, but, as you know, it is very limited in terms of the amount of resources, and in fact, it is actually calculated in an indicative manner. And as far as the budgets of monument conservators are concerned, I have already said many times here from the speaker that there is a very large discrepancy between the lowest budget - about 2.5 million PLN - and the highest - over 13 million PLN. Therefore, my question, Minister: Do you foresee, it does not have to be the Ministry of Finance, it can be the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, work to achieve [[♪ The bell ♪]] to make these budgets fairer and fairer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u95	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Bielecki, the Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Every year practically most of us sitting here, in the hall and here, in government benches, attend the anniversary celebrations of August 1980. Let's see how this story has been written down by us, established. Agreements were signed in Gdansk, Szczecin and Jastrzębie-Zdrój. In Gdansk and Szczecin appropriate museums, houses of dialogue were built. In Jastrzębie in Silesia, the inhabitants of Silesia, the miners were strongly involved in making Poland a free, democratic country. Many have also dedicated their lives. There's no such place here today. This city is visited by the former presidents present, the Prime Minister today, then by a Member. I call on the High House to accept the amendment that I have tabled to build a house of solidarity. This house of solidarity is to be such a place of remembrance, such a historical and educational center that connects many generations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u97	Thank you. Mr Blażej Parda, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I have this cognitive dissonance, because when you look at budgets every year, it turns out that every time we increase spending on officials, we hire more and more people, we spend hundreds of millions of dollars to make IT systems, computers, phones work faster and faster. Technology is moving forward. I ask you, where is the technological progress in the offices? If part of the work can be done by machines, why do the number of officials increase every year? Is there a problem in the machines? Is there a problem in training people? I would like to remind you that there are fewer and fewer inhabitants in Poland, which means that there is also no need to hire a few more people, so I would urge you to make good use of these information systems. Because today it's starting to look like someone bought a bus that can ride alone, and they actually hired three drivers who drive at that time, and soon it turns out that they won't need a bus, just a self-propelled bus. So I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u100	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In sejm print No.24 dated 19 November Ub. In 2012, the Marshal of the Sejm passed a citizens' bill amending the law on the income of local government units. Mr. Marshal gave this project to, not to conceal, a great surprise to the local community itself, but also a great hope. Because notice what the applicants also say, that since 2005 there have been numerous statutory changes which have resulted in a reduction in the income of local government units, have transferred new tasks or extended the scope of existing tasks and have introduced other changes in regulations, and the effects of these changes, combined, have resulted in losses in the income of municipalities, powiats and voivodships of at least PLN 8 billion per year. The most important negative financial consequences for municipalities and powiats of voivodships resulted in changes in the system of income tax on individuals adopted in 2006 and 2007 - I will repeat these years, which is no doubt here: in 2006 and 2007 - and this is PLN 6.8 billion. And here's the question. You can't see, at least I can't see, further work on this bill, while you can see, and the local authorities can see it, the possibility of paralysis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] when introducing the flagship government program 500+. It's a huge task, no one's hiding it. Knowledge of the practical, technical side of the implementation of this programme is very limited, and the financial side of the support of local authorities also has little knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u101	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u102	They stayed two months as promised. Should local authorities already add further costs to that bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u103	Mr Andrzej Noblet, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Mountain rescue carried out by the Mountain Voluntary Rescue Service, including the Krkonoše Group and the Tatra Volunteer Rescue Service, is very important to ensure the safety of tourists in the mountains. The number of tourists visiting the Polish mountains is increasing, which is very beneficial for the development of Polish tourism. Many Poles resign from foreign trips and take advantage of the Polish offer, including active mountain tourism. At the same time, which is natural, the number of accidents in the mountains and other difficult events requiring the intervention of mountain rescuers is increasing. There have been many such examples lately. However, the State budget planned in the draft budget for this purpose is insufficient compared to the modestly estimated needs. The urgent issue is to increase the number of jobs for the GOPR Krkonoše Group, as well as for the TOPR for mountain rescue tasks, including the increase of salaries for very few earning mountain rescuers. It is impossible to base mountain rescue mainly on the social work of rescuers, even though they work with huge [[♪ The bell ♪]] engage and devote their time, and work with great passion. Will the Law and Justice support the amendment tabled in this regard? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u105	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a specific question for the legislator, the designer actually. The point is that the draft budget law adopted a rate of PLN to the euro of 4,03, USD - 3,66 . Today, the currency situation is quite different. I understand that this is the result of the reporting of some parties to the European Parliament, which results in the Polish gold being weakened, [[Applause]] I also understand the legislator that he did not take into account such behaviour, because I did not expect the Pole to inform on Poland either. Well, we don't always clearly learn the right lessons from history. The market continues. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister of Finance: How much of this negative effect, let's say, for the exchange rate, will affect the budget bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u107	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Committee on Public Finance, we have been discussing the sense of setting up 70 posts at the National Radio and Television Council in order to unload the existing cork proposals that have been submitted by people in order to clear the backlog of the subscription for the past years. And we were really thinking about the sense of creating these jobs, because 70 jobs for two years, this is the proposal, will cost us another million zlotys, if I remember correctly, about 10 million zlotys. If, therefore, I ask the official question, it is not better to think about the abolition in this regard and not spend any more money, especially since - as far as I was able to get an answer - 90% are these applications accepted, granted? [[95.]] Positively - i.e. they are either remitted or dues distributed over the years, therefore the money for this is dripping into the budget anyway to a marginal extent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u109	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 recommends adopting an amendment to reduce budget expenditure by 5 million in the section on the Ombudsman's contribution to increases in the remuneration of employees of the general public prosecutor's office. And I would like to stress here that this is not about the prosecutors, but about the officials. The increase in the Ombudsman's budget is not justified at the moment, because the employees employed in the Ombudsman's office earn well, much better than the employees of the prosecutor's office, and the role of this office, although important, is not as important as the role of the prosecutor's office, which is responsible for the legal security of Poles. It was during the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights that Mrs Pawłowicz asked the Ombudsman's staffer what his salary was, because this is what justice workers might dream of. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been years since we've been undermining the staff of the prosecution. The representatives of the executive, judicial and legislative authorities are aware of this. Sadly, however, nothing has been done in this regard. Party politicians from the right to the left mammal over the years with promises of court workers and prosecutors, especially during the period of electoral fever, that there will be a change. I fought so that the lowest wage in the prosecution's office would not be lower than the lowest salary, i.e. PLN 1850, and there are hundreds of such cases. In 2013, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights [[♪ The bell ♪]] issued a dissertation stating that the remuneration of the staff of the prosecutor's office and courts does not correspond to either the dignity of the office in question or the scope of the duties. Dezyderat dezyderate, and life life. What was done to implement the committee's request? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen. Nothing's been done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u111	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u112	So that the time to reverse this situation, the time for the first step and then the systemic regulation of this sphere, which we will be determined to pursue. Poles have to make more money. That's what the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u113	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u114	Let's finish with the fashion promoted by liberals from Petru and PO for starvation wages. Let's start with the poorest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u115	Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern. There's no envoy. Mr Józef Lassot, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Ireneusz Oda, Kukiz,15 has the floor. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I am mainly interested in the part of the budget that concerns education. I'm interested in two things. Firstly, we have already asked a question in committee about any simulation of the costs of introducing a reform of six-year-olds and seven-year-olds. The exact point is that, with this reform, of course, the burden on local governments resulting from the admission of seven-year-olds to the first classes will be reduced, but at the same time the burden will increase due to the fact that there will be fewer places in kindergartens for 3-year-olds. The budget shall provide for an amount in the special-purpose reserve to increase the availability of kindergartens. However, this amount, 1670 million, is the same this year as last year. One amendment, which I tabled, provides for an increase in this amount. I wanted to ask you if you see the need to increase this amount due to the possibility of providing seats for 3-year-old children, for example. in private kindergartens. That's one thing. The second point is that there is nowhere in the budget for the creation of new manuals, the so-called textbooks. free textbooks, because let me remind you that these textbooks we have include 6-year-olds, not 7-year-olds in the first class. Therefore, a new free textbook program will have to be created at the time when compulsory primary education will include 7-year-olds. Is there anywhere in the budget that we could spend on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u117	Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was most interested in this regional section in this budget. Mrs Zuba said that MEPs, mainly the opposition, have tabled so many amendments to this budget. I would like to point out that these were amendments, which not only I have tabled, but are full of Members, concerning what you promised during the election campaign. After all, this budget should be the first stage in the implementation of the electoral promises announced so loudly in October, in the autumn of last year. Unfortunately, all the amendments, all 214 amendments were rejected, which surprised me very much. You've changed your attitude so quickly. 8 years To say what needs to be done, and at the time of the trial, it is possible to fulfil their financial commitments, suddenly Members forget their electoral declarations. I don't think that's right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u119	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I tabled an amendment increasing the financial resources by PLN 1 billion in the form of grants to local government units for the modernisation of local roads, i.e. district and municipal roads. These roads are over 412 thousand. km, which represents 88% all public roads. Unfortunately, local, district and municipal authorities are left alone with this problem today. The construction of national roads is financed by the road fund and EU funds, the construction of voivodship roads - from EU funds and the effect is that from the cooled national roads we turn to the punctured local roads. And this is not the result of a bad economy by local governments, but the result of many years of negligence, which can be really eliminated only with the involvement of the state budget. The poor state of local road infrastructure is an important barrier to the development of individual municipalities and powiats. Does the government see this problem, will it support this amendment, or is it able to propose another constructive solution to this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u121	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform has pursued a very active family policy in the previous 8 years, but of course it can always be further developed and expanded, also by adopting a general family allowance, which is the amount of 500 PLN. However, in the current version proposed by the government and consulted by the PiS, this version is unfair, too bureaucratic and too costly for the budget. How could it be improved? Firstly, however, to extend this allowance to all children so as not to introduce a bureaucratic threshold, which will create an impression of injustice. Secondly, if we want to do this fairly, let us include those amounts paid with normal income tax. The poor will pay nothing or very little, the rich will pay up to 32% of the family allowance. Let's not destroy the tax system that applies. Thirdly, in order not to break public finances and balance, all we have to do is finance what we can do this year. Let's say that this benefit this year we can start paying from the amount of 200 PLN, then increase it to 300, 400 and even 500 PLN at the end of the term, if we manage to do what the government has announced, it is about removing the grey zone and avoiding taxes, but not by raising taxes, but by fighting against the grey zone. If such funds can be made available and reduced to the full 500 zlotys, then give God's health to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now we can't afford more than 200 zlotys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u123	Thank you. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for you. According to the Department of Statistics and Forecasts, the number of pensioners aged 75 years receiving benefits is 1,375 170. The reserve provided for in the budget for reimbursement of medicines for this group of pensioners in 2016 amounts to PLN 125 million. A simple calculation shows that one pensioner is less than PLN 8 per month. According to research by TNS Poland average expenditure on Polish pensioner's drugs amounts to PLN 148 per month. Therefore, I have this question for the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance: Do you even talk to each other? And what's the correlation? The Minister of Health says okay, we'll refund it, and the Minister of Finance says there's no money for it. I'd like the ministers to start talking to each other and establish one point of view. I've got vitamin C here, it's 8 zlotys. Does the government intend to use vitamin C, which costs 8 PLN, as much as per pensioner, to treat 75+ pensioners? Thank you very much. [[3,40, 3,40.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u125	The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every year, 44,000. Poles die prematurely from air pollution. And the full picture of the situation is even worse, because it should include all chronic diseases. There are also huge social costs in terms of budget issues related to the treatment of sick people. The modern amendment to the budget, which provides for an increase in the budget of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship in the section: Environmental protection, by PLN 50 million in order to protect atmospheric air. It's about eliminating emissions in the city of harmful substances. This problem concerns Cracow, but it also concerns other towns in Lesser Poland and Silesia. This amendment was rejected on the committee. It was therefore notified as a minority request. I have a question for you: Why do you not want to accept this amendment? Do you have any estimate that it's cheaper to treat people than to save their lives preventively? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u127	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns local governments. The budget you are proposing is actually a budget in which, you can say, there is no such sensitivity of the local government. At least that's how I look at it. We know very well that local governments have a lot to do, but they don't have money to do with it. It is very easy to rewrite a budget that was already ready, without any invention and without any idea how to deal with this problem. Not so long ago there was a civic project that talked about increasing the income of local governments. We know that the government has taken a negative view of this idea. This also shows that unfortunately, among the rulers there is not this self-government sensitivity that I am talking about. You anticipate and introduce new programmes that will burden local governments. It is well known that the money you want to influence from taxes or banks or from hypermarkets will, however, act centrally, and there is absolutely no idea of how this money will later be deployed in local governments. So my question is this: Do you have any idea at all about increasing the revenue of local governments and putting this money well? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u129	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern. [[No, you left me out, marshal.]] Excuse me, Member. [[You left me out.]] Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u130	Mr. Marshal, I have questions for the Minister of Finance. Recently, she told the public about Minister Gowin's controversial speech on higher education, about the fact that medical studies will be paid for. I'm not talking about that. I would like to talk about the funding programme, among others. teaching activities concerning the maintenance of school aircraft and specialized air service training centres. My point is that so far, grants have been received by the Rzeszow University of Technology, a higher officer's school in Dęblin, as well as the State Higher Vocational School in Chełm. It was a total of 17,700,000. PLN per year. The Poznań University of Technology arrived in 2016 and there are no more funds here. An amendment was made to increase these measures by a modest amount of PLN 12 million. I would like the PiS Members to ask your President, who has visited the Podkarpacie on several occasions during the campaign, if this amendment really does not deserve support. We would like to support the amendment on living for young people - it is about the amount of PLN 800 million - as well as the final preparation of the 500+ programme. There is no included tax funding for large-scale shops, and the debate and negotiations are ongoing with the local government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are no funds in the budget planned for this purpose for local governments, no one knows who will pay them. So in this respect, we ask you to include in the income of local governments this kind of action...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u131	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u132	...but first about preparing this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u133	Thank you. Is Mrs Joanna Schmidt here? There isn't. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Korol, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u134	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Committee on Public Finance rejected the amendments to provide funding for very important investments in Gdansk and Tczew, which are strategically important not only for the inhabitants of Pomerania, but also for all tourists going to the sea to spend their vacation there. Rejection of amendments providing funding for the construction of the bridge to Sobieszewska Island deprives the inhabitants of Sobieszew of the right to better and more efficient travel to the centre of Gdansk, reduces the tourist potential of the island, and abandoning this extra-local investment will prevent the safe access to the island and Mierija Vistula tourists from all over Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! The bridge is important for another very important reason. In 2023, the Sobieszewska Island will host a scout convention from 160 countries around the world. World jamboree will last for two weeks, and on an island where 2,000 live. Inhabitants, we will host 70,000. people from abroad. Another investment rejected by the Public Finance Commission is the metropolitan ring road of Gdansk, the Tri-City which would enable [[♪ The bell ♪]] to all tourists from all over the country faster, safer and without traffic jams to reach the sea, and we all know what problems we have in the summer. There's more of this stuff, but time's up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You should have asked for an extra fee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u135	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to support in this spirit precisely the three regional amendments that I tabled to the draft budget law. The first concerns the Beskydy Integration Road. It is such a road that connects the south of the Silesian Voivodeship with the capital of the Malopolska Voivodeship, i.e. with Krakow. Ladies and gentlemen, for the people of our region is this is a very important road that can open up for us the entire market in Małopolska, it can cause the inhabitants of our region to draw as much from this region as possible. This will improve our economic situation. I would very much ask you to support this amendment. The same applies to the second infrastructure amendment, to the circumvention of Hungary's Górka. This is very burdensome for residents and here I encourage you to take into account the needs of these residents. Reinforcing the anti-violence fund in the family. But there's one thing I wanted to notice. It is very disturbing that one of the main speakers of Law and Justice in the budget debate is Mr Szewczyk, who is the chief economist of the SKOK, and me and hundreds of thousands of citizens of the SKOK are mostly associated with the spectacular bankruptcy of the two cash registers, which have pumped over PLN 3 billion out of the Bank Guarantee Fund, i.e. more than the remaining 94 bankruptcies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If, of course, there is a connection here, then I have such an appeal to choose these people well, because it seems that such a person should not instruct Members on precisely economic issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u137	Thank you, sir. Mr Szewczak, as corrected. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the corrigendum is at the end, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to straighten it out a little bit. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: The Member once admonished me.]] My name is Szewczak, not Szewczyk. [[Excuse me, sir.]] Modern, as you can see, is poorly informed not only in economic matters, because I wanted to say that I am not the main economist of the National Credit Union. I'm a professional member. Thank you. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But you were.]] [[But you were.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u139	Thank you. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to raise three points: an increase in the tax-free amount, the MdM programme and infrastructure investments in Lower Silesia. Thus, first of all, the 2016 draft budget does not provide for the provision of funds to increase the tax-free amount, which is one of the main promises of the PiS. More importantly, it is also the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which ruled that the current tax-free amount is too low, that it should be vitiated. Secondly, the draft budget also does not secure sufficient funding for the MdM programme and in the 2016 budget, the planned amount will be sufficient for the implementation of the programme only until April. The platform has tabled an appropriate amendment to increase this amount by PLN 800 million in order to be sufficient for the implementation of the MdM programme by the end of 2016. I would also like to draw attention to the insufficient financial reserve to complete the infrastructure investments that are necessary for the functioning, improving the quality of life of citizens. Therefore, together with a group of Members, I tabled two amendments concerning infrastructure investments in Lower Silesia. One concerns the construction of the Oława ring road in order to reduce transit traffic through this city, remind you that one of the oldest. The second amendment concerns the reconstruction of the national road No 94 and the restoration of the exit to the A4 section of Łagiewniki - A4. This road, starting from the village of Łagiewniki, supports industrial zones, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Subzone of the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone. The lack of reconstruction of this road and the absence of a exit led to the elimination of many jobs, reduced the economic importance of the district of Strzelinski. Therefore, please include these amendments in the draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u141	Thank you, Member. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] No, no, no. Not anymore. [[One sentence.]] No, thank you. No, no, no. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: One side is allowed by the marshal... but with correction.]] [[But, Marshal, do you allow law and justice and not me? That's not fair. In corrigendum mode.]] Mrs. Cornelia Wróblewska, please. [[Mr. Marshal...]] There is no Member. Who's next? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But why does the Marshal of Members of Law and Justice allow us to be corrected and not corrected?]] Mr. Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform. [[Mr. Marshal, it is absolutely unfair that you allow representatives of one club to be corrected, and I cannot make this correction.]] The Member has briefly corrected it. [[But this is important information, because on the Member's website it says that the chief economist of SKOK...]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum is normal.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u142	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, To spend money, you have to have it first or at least know exactly where they're going to be taken from. The proposal for a budget resolution included PLN 128,7 billion in VAT revenue, but it was assumed that inflation in 2016 would amount to 1,7%. I have doubts that such an indicator will be implemented. Just look at the previous month, the December and November tables show that we have been dealing with deflation, and in previous months we have also done so. According to experts, and above all the National Bank of Poland, which has probably the most reliable information, inflation next year will amount to just over 1%. In that case, if this indicator in the budget is shot out, it may turn out that 5 billion PLN will be paid by the state. Therefore, I would like to ask you on what basis the inflation rate of 1,7% has been estimated. And if it doesn't happen, will it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will be dealing with an increase in the deficit or with a cut in expenditure. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u143	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, I would like to address the question to the Minister of Finance, the most runaway in budget creation, and above all in creating some revenue to our budget, without which there is virtually no implementation of many expenditures and the budget may be uncertain. Minister of Finance, what steps have you taken to secure the VAT receipts, which represent a huge revenue in our budget? As important as the tax is, I don't need to speak from this stand about the risks to the budget in the event of its failure, neither do I. That's why it's important, and there's a lot to be said about it. I have a second question for the Minister of Agriculture. Is the 120 million which has been transferred to aid to farmers in terms of pig losses sufficient? For what period of time is additional support foreseen, if any, and when can this support be expected? Farmers are in a very difficult situation and are waiting for every zloty, but at the moment there are no specific announcements when it will occur. [[♪ The bell ♪]] launching payments for farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u145	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'd like to appeal to your marshal. The correction mode is described in the Rules of Procedure and applies equally to all clubs, not just those with whom you are friendly, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] My question concerns the 500+ programme. It's a huge program, and it's also a huge logistics operation. As we know, the funds for this programme have been entered in the budget and are to come from new taxes that will burden consumers. My question concerns the operation of this program. What about the staff? Will it be a burden for local governments? Are there measures for this? I ask because it is a very large programme and it is a question of verifying how these funds are spent. What's it gonna look like? Are local governments supposed to do this alone, or are there measures for this? These are the next jobs, the next expenses that are charged to local governments. And another one of my questions. Will you address the appeal of local government officials to introduce a longer vacathio legis for this programme? Self-governments are calling for it, they're not ready to run such a big program. This is another law that imposes additional burdens on local governments and does not follow the measures. This is another example of the fact that the local government is limited by laws coming from the state headquarters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u147	Thank you. I would like to remind you that this is a debate on the budget and not on the relationship between the banking sector and the SKOKs. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. [[The Member has the right to say what he wants from the Parliamentary Speaker.]] [[It's called freedom of speech.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft government budget by PiS is a wallet from which all Poles will pay for this party's electoral promises. It does not take into account the welfare of all Poles, but only a few social groups, the narrow electorate of PiS. Investment important for the whole country is therefore at risk. The government will spend money on the 500+ program, there will be a huge cost of handling it, we will spend billions of zlotys on the program faulty and underdeveloped. The Prime Minister had this program in the blue file and she bragged to the voters that he was prepared. Why did the Prime Minister lie? Were there only ways in the briefcase of PiS's ownership of the institutions and bodies? I would like to refer to the amount of resources allocated to road infrastructure. In particular, I would like to ask you about guaranteeing the funding from the state budget to prepare the construction of the roundabout of Hungary Górka on the S69 expressway and the State's own contribution to this investment. This is a road of trans-European importance. If it does not arise, the entire southern region will not develop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the most expected investment in the district of Żywiec. Please answer: Are the money secured in the state budget for this priority, extremely important investment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u149	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just got back from a very interesting meeting of the cultural committee. I recommend that all of you take part in this committee for the future. [[And finance.]] I know, I know. Culture also involves money, Mr President. Thank you for paying my attention to such a very important thing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Why has the money for the theatres in the budget for next year been reduced by 7 million? It turned out that the budget of the Ministry of Culture was increased by 100 million and the theatres were damaged. I would like to ask you again: Is the reason for this decision is our dispute about freedom and the boundaries of artistic statements concerning death and girlfriend? That's one question. The second question is actually just as important and as basic. Why do you spend so little money in this budget on visual arts artists who are in poverty, who have poor pay, who are actually doomed to extreme free market decisions? In our country, as we know, people of art and paintings do not buy, so it would be important for you to strengthen visual artists who are outlawed in the Polish country. I place these questions in the interest of the future of Polish culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u151	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u152	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the amendment I tabled with a group of Members, namely the increase in property expenditure in heading 39: Transport. National public roads. It's about the construction of a ring road and a bridge crossing in the city of Głogów. It is an investment that the people of this city have been waiting for for many years. Głogów is almost 70 thousand city located on two banks of the river Oder with one pre-war bridge crossing. In difficult situations that happen quite often, the detour to be made is 80 km and applies to all vehicles, including the privileged ones. This perimeter is to run on national road No 12. This road runs through the city centre, where no sound absorbing devices can be made, because technical conditions do not allow it, and noise standards are repeatedly exceeded. I think that this amendment also meets the expectations of Members of the Law and Justice, because you have tabled this amendment with previous budgets, with such a small difference that at the time this investment was not included in any programme to be implemented. Today it is included in the government programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that the PiS Club will support this amendment, because it was Prime Minister Szydło during the campaign who spoke and is now talking about listening to the public, and my amendment and today's speech are the voice of this society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u153	Thank you. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u154	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question about the proposed amendment to the budget, namely the development of road infrastructure, the improvement of road infrastructure. I made that amendment. I hope that it will be supported by you, because it is primarily the result of which it is gaining the region, which is the result of which it is gaining the economy. I hope that in your eyes there will be recognition for the proposed amendment concerning the construction, repair of road 94 on the Legnica - Kunice route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u155	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. There's no envoy. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is related to the amendment, which is contained in the committee's report under 85, concerning appropriations in a small amount, such as budget corrections, amounting to 446 000. zł, intended to increase the budget of the Silesian Voivodeship, for salary increases, for 68.7 of the nursing staff in medical rescue teams of sub-contractors of the voivodship emergency service. I would like to recommend this amendment to you and at the same time ask whether the government may provide in another range some other measures that will be unloaded with this worse situation, where in the same public hospital some nurses have received a raise, and the other only because they legally carry out subcontracting work for a public voivodship emergency service, are different, worse treated. Perhaps the government provides for a different source and I would ask for this amendment to be included in minority proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u157	Thank you. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will be returning to one of the most important electoral promises made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło during the election campaign on 6 October at a meeting with the people of Lubin. The future Prime Minister spoke decisively and unambiguously, leaving the slightest doubt that the PiS government has a draft law abolishing the tax on fossils, which is largely or mainly concerned with the KGHM combination in Lubin. I would therefore like to ask where this bill is, why it has not yet been submitted. If, in the budgetary debate at the very beginning, we heard from the chairman of the Committee on Public Finance by Mr Jaworski that Law and Justice are fulfilling their electoral commitments and promises and budget is a reflection of this important promise, made personally by Mrs Beata Szydło to the people of Lubin, the Lower Silesia, why is this promise not implemented, also to the detriment of the financial situation of KGHM? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u159	Thank you. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will quote here the words of Marshal Kuchciński: in many places Mazowsze's standard of living is extremely low. It's true. I would even partially agree with that statement. Indeed, the standard of living is low. That is why Members of the Civic Platform have tabled amendments to the budget, which serve the well-being of the people of Radom, are a test of the intentions of the Members of Law and Justice. You lean over the poorer regions of Mazowsze, you say you have to divide the voivodship, that you have to separate Warsaw, then it will be better. There's an easier way. It is important to vote for money for hospitals, roads, sports and educational facilities, jobs on Radom land. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us vote in favour of the amendments for the Radom land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u161	Thank you. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. [[You don't have a marshal.]] Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, has a voice. There isn't. Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask my question on behalf of the people of Krosna Odrzański. You have always stressed that you listen to the citizens, so that I hope you will not only listen, but also support the long-awaited investment, namely the construction of the ring road and the bridge in Krosno Odrzański. This investment is included in the 2014-2023 National Road Construction Programme, but you have deleted the financial resources from this year's budget for the preparation of documentation. Please understand that if we do not start documentation now, this investment will not be realised at all. This is a strategic investment, which is important not only for the development of the region, but above all for the safety of residents, especially the bridge, very old, in very poor technical condition, requires that a new one be built. I therefore call on you to support our minority proposals and give you an opportunity to implement this investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u163	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform. There isn't. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am speaking on behalf of Members of the Civic Platform of the Podlaskie Voivodeship who tabled amendments to the state budget for 2016, very strategic issues in terms of infrastructure for the Podlaskie Voivodship. We have tabled five amendments, including four infrastructure that are really in the process of continuing, and some need financial support to announce tenders for investment programmes of these roads necessary for the Podlaskie voivodship. This is a question concerning the continuation of the S61 expressway on the Suwałki section - the Polish-Lithuanian border crossing, the project continuations of the Łomża ring road, which is located within the S61 express road, the construction of the S19 express road on the Białystok - Lublin section, as well as further modernization of the railway corridor E75 Rail Baltica Białystok - Trakiszko. The fifth amendment we tabled is not infrastructural, but it is a very important investment concerning the construction of the Sibir Memorial Museum in Białystok. I would like to say that the Museum of the Memory of Sibir will pay tribute to the Poles who in those difficult times after World War II [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the number of tens of thousands were deported to the far east of the former Soviet Union. I ask all Members, in particular the Law and Justice, to support the amendments of minorities, which are very strategic for the economic development and security of the Podlaskie Voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u165	Thank you. You have the floor of Mr Artur Gierada, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have listened with great attention to this debate and I must say that Mr Jerzy Żyżyński has particularly impressed me. We could argue on a number of issues, but especially when he regretted how our country is in debt with foreign capital and when he said, I will quote: this also applies to debt in francs, I must say that the Member has a lot of nerve. I know that today you want to make an impression - because soon you will submit a project, the president will submit this project - among others. France's saviors, but I will remind you how your club behaved in 2006, when there was a recommendation S - a recommendation that suggested the introduction of restrictions on the availability of loans, and this was a recommendation of the KNF. What did the Law and Justice Club say at the time? Here are a few quotes: the PiS Parliamentary Club is critical of this recommendation for at least a few reasons. The next quote: The introduction of artificial restrictions preventing the natural development of credit markets granted in francs does not serve the Polish economy, and certainly does not serve citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, you have urged citizens to take loans in francs. Finally, the Commission for Banking Supervision, through its vague and unconvincing support in the facts of the action, proves that it only pursues the corporate interests of banks. It puts the interests of the largest banking networks above the interests of ordinary citizens and the public interest. That's how you criticized everyone, [[♪ The bell ♪]] including those who wanted to reduce loans, limit them by the banks who told Poles that this was a threat. My question, then, is short: Isn't it better to keep quiet sometimes? Minister, aren't you just ashamed today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u167	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no Prime Minister or Minister. I was going to ask something completely different, but Mr Cymanski spoke today about the terror of statistics, he said that the median is more important. With the budget we are talking about inflation, and I would like to ask a question about one of the elements that is important to many, practically everyone. Namely, I wanted to ask you about oil. On the one hand, under your rule, the gold goes to your neck and despite the fact that oil is cheap in the world markets, in Polish petrol stations is not cheaper, on the other hand I would like to note that with your anti-Russian rhetoric you are the most promo team since Wojciech Jaruzelski and WRON. [[So, what's it like?]] President Jasiński turned his back on cheap oil supplies and signed a huge contract for three years with the Russians for larger deliveries than we had taken in the previous three years. As with a problem as important as the price of oil in the Polish economy - including the budget, in this economy [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this government going to be okay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u169	Thank you. Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question I want to ask is from the local authorities that I spoke to, who reported this problem to me. I would like to ask the government whether you have assessed - at all and on the basis of what - the needs that local governments will have in carrying out their own task of compulsory preschool care. By the law that you have introduced regarding starting school at the age of 7, you have led many local governments in Poland to run out of places in kindergartens for many of our families, which they say you are so concerned about, which they say you care so much about. Let me give you one example, an example of my circle. The largest town - Piła. Since September, the president of the city will have no opportunity or at the expense of other tasks he will have to prepare 800 places in kindergartens because of the change you have made. Is this what you propose for family-friendly policy? Or do you assume that 500 PLN, which was supposed to be at the beginning for each child, now for which some, will be allocated by parents to finance their stay in non-public kindergartens, where, you know, the costs are much higher than in public? We, ladies and gentlemen, have introduced a whole coherent family policy package that has provided the right to kindergarten this year for four-year-olds, [[♪ The bell ♪]] from next year for three-year-olds. How do you want to handle this? Where will you send the parents of three- and four-year-olds? Because I have a proposal: to the parliamentary offices of Members who will vote in favour of this change and do not allocate money for this task by the municipalities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u171	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Regional amendments are very important because they are really social dialogue between local governments and the state, between local authorities and state institutions. They are very important and it seems that, at a time when we are talking about social dialogue, reaching out for them as a tool for such very active communication with society is very important. Therefore, the question is whether the amendments, which, unfortunately, as a minority proposal in general, have been tabled, are all rejected by the State... Are you going to be as antisocial as you are, and aren't you going to be thinking about the development of these little homelands? I would like to draw attention to two amendments concerning the town of Konin. The first is the issue of opening up large investment areas and creating jobs by investing in the road between the motorway and investment areas, and actually in these investment areas, worth 36.6 million, which will open jobs, will create new jobs. The second amendment concerns the renovation of the Bernardine Bridge necessary to ensure that in Konin there is a movement in the Gosławice Sugar Plant, which will enable communication between the various districts of the city. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u173	Thank you. Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u174	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ministers! Where is senior policy - you could ask the government of Beata Szydło. In the exposé, the words "senior" did not fall once. Today we know that the free drug program, all free medications for everyone ended in budget line. 125 million PLN divided into 3 million people over 75 years of age, this results in 4 PLN per month. Dear pensioners, this is the senior policy of the government of Beata Szydło, period. But I'd like to remind you of some facts. On 1 January 2016, the Older Persons Act entered into force, a law which obliges the Council of Ministers to coordinate senior policy, to monitor the situation of older people and to provide the Sejm and the Senate with information on the situation of older people by 31 October each year, comprehensive information, also based on research supported by them. There's no gold, there's no gold, you've forgotten that. That's why the Civic Platform wants to help you. We have prepared an amendment that transfers funds from the National Election Office, because probably too many referendums and elections will not be available this year, just for senior policy, for the implementation of the Older Persons Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u175	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Looking at the budget law, I noticed that the budgets of the tax houses and tax offices were combined, and in addition, under the guise of this merger, this budget was increased by PLN 200 million. I have here a question for the Minister: What will this money be used for? Will they be allocated to subsequent officials, or will they be allocated to subsequent checks? Will the Ministry continue the Gehenna of Polish taxpayers, Polish entrepreneurs? What Minister Kapica was doing was murdering the Polish economy, it was taking freedom. [[So where's the GDP coming from?]] Army officials controlling players who played games in their own group, in poker. They controlled, destroyed legitimate offices. Is that what the money's gonna be devoted to? I'm sure the Minister... the Minister will say that I don't, and I don't have that kind of trust, so I'm proposing an amendment to reduce the budget for tax chambers and tax offices by nearly PLN 200 million. And that is the draft amendment I am proposing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u177	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, I will start from the end, that is, from the question of Mr Michael Hontoby. Mr President, in the draft budget that we inherited from you, after your government, 40 million were designed in the ASOS project and 40 million in the WIGOR programme. That money, as you can see, is still on the project. Why only so much has been managed by the Senior Committee and the Government of the Civic Platform to produce, when it comes to senior policy, you already have to answer yourself as former chairman of the Senior Committee of our Sejm. I would like to move on to the three questions that concern the 500+ family programme. It seems to me that the public consultation that ended a few days ago, but also the consultation that led the management of the Ministry - I will remind you that we were in all voivodships, we met with local government officials - caused these questions to be so few, because I think the program is big enough that it certainly arouses very much interest. Like I said, there are three questions, all very similar. Mr Jan Łopa said that local governments do not have information about the cost of operating the programme. Mr President, also in the Lublin Voivodeship consultations took place, there was a full room of local government officials, all the questions the local government received were answered and they certainly have this knowledge. The other two questions, Mr Adam Szłapka and Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, relate to the costs of operating the 500+ programme. I will remind you that in the draft budget, in part 85, there are over PLN 15 billion in the voivod's budgets for the payment of the educational benefit and for the costs of operating this programme. Thus, the costs of service in the project are taken into account. If the High Sejm adopts this budget, it will be the funds and the payment of the educational benefit, and the cost of service. And it will certainly be a large amount of money, because with these amounts and, at the same time, with a very simple decision-making process, local governments will have a large amount of money to operate and implement this programme. Marcin Święcicki has tabled several proposals for amendments to the draft law 500+. I am sure that all the proposals are welcome, but the first reading of the bill is still ahead of us and I understand that the Member will repeat these proposals during the parliamentary debate, because this will be a good time to deal with them. On the other hand, they certainly do not affect the solutions contained in the budget that we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u179	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Members' questions were about the young people's accommodation programme, and there was one question about the Poznań University of Technology, and the rest of the questions were about road matters. Maybe I should start with Mrs Aldona Młyńczak's question about increasing the funding for the implementation of the MdM programme for 2016. This programme is being implemented in line with the previous government's assumption. We did not anticipate an increase in resources here. For this year, 730 million PLN is planned and we do not see the need to increase this limit at the moment, because at the end of the year this limit in the form of a budget reserve was used in 50%, to the present state is around 57%, so it is difficult at the moment to recognise that there is a need to increase this limit. Furthermore, as I have already ensured many times in public, this programme will be implemented to the end in the manner envisaged by the previous government. We're not planning on putting this program out. On the other hand, on the issue of extending it - of course this requires a debate. We plan to replace it with another programme, but if necessary and there is no other decision, it may continue, but rather we want to replace it with another programme. Mrs Skowrońska asked for an increase in funds for the Poznań University of Technology, but in the field of training to obtain a certificate from the Civil Aviation Authority. According to our data, in order for such training to be conducted, we need a certificate from the Civil Aviation Authority. Poznańska University of Technology did not apply for such a certificate and according to data from last year it stated that it does not exist at the moment because it is unable to prepare for obtaining such a certificate. It is also difficult to talk about a budgetary change in this respect. With regard to the questions about the National Roads and Roads Programme, we have already said on several occasions that the National Roads Construction Programme prepared by the previous government covered almost PLN 200 billion, while the measures actually secured in the budgets for the current year and for the following years, which are foreseen, cover only PLN 107 billion, so that necessarily not all the projects planned by the previous government can be implemented if there are no significant savings or we will not be able to increase significantly, and in a nearly 100 percent way, the resources planned by the previous government for this purpose. I'm getting to the bottom of this. Beskidska Way of Integration, question by Mr Mirosław Suchon. This task is included in the state budget for 2016, it is in preparation, including financial security, so that we do not see threats here. Mr Suchoń, as well as Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, asked for the S69 route. This task is also taken into account, in particular in the area of the so-called. Bypassing the Hungarian Mountains. This task is included in the National Road Construction Programme. The task has financial security, is at the final stage of preparation. The next question, Mrs Aldony Młyńczak, concerned the ring road of the city of Oława. The task is not included in the National Road Construction Programme. It is still difficult for us to change this program at the moment if it is almost 100% missing , rather 50% measures. Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Głogów ring road. This task is included in the 2014-2020 national road construction programme, in the preparatory phase. A technical and environmental study is planned. The environmental decision is planned to be obtained by the end of 2017. The next question, Mrs Osos, concerns the ring road of Krosn Odrzański. This task is currently not included in the 2016 plan. The task shall be prepared to start preparatory work if free resources appear in the budget of the State so that it is not possible to implement it at the moment. Mrs Bożena Kamińska asked for the S61 Suwałki route - the state border. The task will be carried out with the CEF, i.e. the Connecting Europe project, the funding of the Fund is approved. The task is at the preparatory stage - in the third quarter of 2016 it is planned to implement the concept of the programme investment - and will be carried out next. To the questions of Mrs Elżbieta Stępień and Mrs Bożena Kamińska as regards the national road No 94 and the Lagievniki link, A4, we will answer in writing. Similarly to Mrs Kaminska's question about the investments related to railway lines, we will allow ourselves to be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u181	Thank you very much. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Zbigniew Ajchler's question on aid to pig producers, I would like to inform the High House that this aid results from emergency aid for farmers in the livestock sector established by the European Commission. The amount for the European Union was planned at 420 million, of which Poland received 28 900 thousand. Euros. According to the original draft regulation, which had already been prepared by the previous government, aid to pig producers was not foreseen at all, so the PO-PSL government did not provide for such aid. The government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło and the Ministry of Agriculture under the direction of Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel have made changes to this project and we have increased the amount of national funds by 100% in line with the mandate of the European Commission regulation cited above. - up to the maximum permitted level by Union law. This increased amount of more than 120 million was allocated to aid to pig producers. This is the first such aid that pig producers have received or received for many years, although the situation on pig markets has been very difficult for many years. The project provides for the payment of these compensations, such support by the end of June. Within 7 days of publication, the project will enter into force and pig producers will be able to submit applications to the Agricultural Market Agency. Due to the scale, the number of these applications, because the aid will cover tens and even more than 100,000. The farmers... That's what we're predicting. Of course, it will depend on how many farmers submit such applications, but so many will be able to submit them. In view of this scale, the process of examining these applications and paying aid will continue, but I am convinced that this aid will be made available to farmers as soon as possible and indeed for the first time pig producers will be able to benefit from such aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u183	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Hanna Majszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To answer some of your questions during today's debate, I would like to start by actually addressing the last question asked by Mr Kulesza concerning an increase in expenditure in tax chambers and tax offices by PLN 200 million. As the Member suggested, this has been done under the cloak of the merger of these institutions. That is not the case, sir. This increase in expenditure is mainly due to the acquisition of some tasks from the voivodship offices. If we compare the budgets of the voivodship offices, we will see that some of the tasks of these units have been transferred to the implementation by the tax chambers and tax offices. This is specifically about the tasks of implementing the mandates imposed by the police. These funds are primarily the means for these tasks, but at the same time they have reduced the budgets of the voivodship offices, which have previously been scattered throughout the country, also carried out this task. Since the new year, since January this task has already been in the property of the fiscal apparatus, hence such an increase. In addition, it must be borne in mind that the tax offices and tax chambers are budgetary units, and those employed in these units are also those who have not had any increases in this particular budget area for several years. Several times today, during the debate, the issue of raising the wage fund in the budgetary area naturally also concerns this part of the workforce. Therefore, in some parts of the budget, this amount is linked to the increases that have been foreseen in the budget for workers of the whole budget area, as was mentioned in the first reading, as well as today, during the debate. As regards further questions, I would like to refer to Mrs Tokarska's question on expenditure, a large increase in expenditure at the National Election Office. Indeed, these measures were planned both in the budget of this office - amounting to PLN 90 million as well as in reserve 17. - in the amount of PLN 137 million. I would like to remind you that, with regard to the National Election Office, it is similar for several other entities listed in the article. The 139th Public Finance Act - it is an entity that shapes its own budget, and both the Minister of Finance, when preparing the draft budget, as well as the entire Council of Ministers are obliged to include the financial plans of these entities and to transfer them to the High House, so any changes that may be made within the budgets of these entities can only be made within the framework of Parliament's work. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these amounts include, among others. increase expenditure which is dictated by the implementation of the tasks imposed by the High House, inter alia. related to the purchase of transparent urns. As far as the reserve is concerned, although no parliamentary or local elections are foreseen this year, in principle every year the budget of the National Election Office, but in the form of a certain amount of reserve, provides for measures for a possible referendum. Therefore, in this case too, as regards the reserve, such measures are secured. But it is also not that no elections are held during the year, even in the few weeks of this year there were requests from the National Election Office to transfer funds from the special reserve to certain supplementary elections in local government units. That is, these activities related to the implementation of election tasks, e.g. in this case in local governments, these are not actions that are carried out only once every 4 years, it is in some way also continuous work. With regard to Mr Galla's question, he referred to the fact that he had received an answer from us in respect of the budgets of monument conservationists, but, in his opinion... The question was raised: When will the voivod's budgets be designed to be fairer when, of course, the funds allocated to monument conservationists? I would like to point out once again that, as regards the internal distribution of resources in the budgets of the various voivods, this is only the domain of the voivodship, which, on the one hand, is obliged to carry out the tasks imposed by law and, on the other hand, must be included in the limit of the resources at its disposal. This is the choice of priorities, and when it comes to the fairness of this division, this is it. In principle, a fair distribution, given the financial opportunities available to the state budget and the resources that may be given to these voivodships, but the level of expenditure on the performance of the tasks by the conservationists of monuments must be balanced between the values I have mentioned and the possibilities offered by the budget of each voivodship. And of course, every year this amount may vary and may vary depending on what priorities the voivode wants to implement or should achieve in a given year. As regards Mrs Chrobak's question, this is basically a question which was linked to the amendment, I understand, tabled by Mrs Chrobak, because in her speech she referred to the Ombudsman's budget, suggesting that this budget should be revised and that appropriate appropriations should be transferred to officials, to the prosecutor's office. I would just like to point out that, with regard to the Ombudsman's budget, as with the National Election Office's budget, this is also a budget submitted by the Ombudsman himself, whose content must simply be included in the budget, so its shape, the amount of funds planned there is the result of plans drawn up by the Ombudsman, but, as with other entities, increases are also foreseen for the Ombudsman's staff in this case, but such increases are also provided for in the Public Prosecutor's Office's budget, as in any other budgetary unit which is included in the State budget for 2016. As far as I'm concerned... This question appeared in several places and several Members asked this question, which concerned the expenditure of local authorities related to education reform and changes in the school obligation for children aged 6 years. This concern and these questions concerned measures which, in your opinion, might be too small. That's a question, among other things. Madam, I am sorry, because I may be twisting my name, so I will not read it, but a few of your Members are asking if there will not be enough of these measures to ensure pre-school education. Indeed, in the course of the work on the budget, some EUR 80 million were added to the reserve for the dissemination of pre-school education, but please note that local government units receive 1,200 million more education for 2016 than in 2015. This subsidy has been increased by the amount I mentioned, among others. As it is difficult to determine what number of children will go to school in terms of structure - whether they will be six or seven-year-olds, that is why every unit of local government at any time, if the structure in a given unit is different, because in fact most children will not go to school, because parents will choose preschool education, there is no obstacle to allocating funds from educational grants to this kindergarten education, so as to provide these means, there is no concern that they might be missed. Ms Aldona Młyńczak's question about the amendment and the increase in the spending on the young people's housing programme. Of course, when it comes to the amendment itself, I will not refer to it, it will look at the Committee on Public Finance and recommend to the High House accordingly how to vote on this amendment, and I do not know it, so I do not even know from what means this shift would take place and whether it is a proper shift within the meaning of the correctness of such amendments or not. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the funds for the programme for the youth living were provided in the 2016 budget for the maximum possible amount, such as the law allows, which can be spent at all on this programme in 2016. We remember that the Public Finance Act obliges the legislator, where the project is submitted by the government, and this was also the case in this case, to introduce into the law the maximum limit of expenditure during the year and in the budget for 2016 the full amount resulting from the law which involves the implementation of this programme has been secured. Therefore, even the transfer of higher resources to the reserve for the implementation of this programme will not be possible to use for this purpose. There was also a question by Mr Carrot concerning the planned or assumed inflation rate of 1,7% for 2016 by the Minister of Finance and by the government. He also asked if, in this connection, this forecast would not be realized, how it was shaped. Should the budget be revised in time? I would like to point out that, as far as this forecast is concerned, given the different consensus in terms of the forecast of bank analysts, which are somewhere at 1,1%. , of course, the projection adopted in the budget is slightly higher, by 0.6 percentage points, but, however, if it is translated into possible revenue, because these macro indicators, which you have been asking about and about, above all, inflation, have a primary impact on income. Of course, this could theoretically translate into less revenue when it comes to the tax on goods and services, which, in principle, is closely linked to the price level, this could have an impact, but this difference in the consensus of analysts and the assumption of this inflation to the budget, i.e. the difference 0,6 could have been translated into possibly lower revenues from the tax on goods and services by about PLN 0.8 billion, or PLN 800 million. It is, of course, always a large amount throughout the budget, but these projections of bank analysts and the average rate adopted, which is assumed by either the European Commission or the monetary fund, also did not take into account the reforms and changes that were included in the 2016 budget, i.e. the programme related to the law, which was also covered by the questions of the Member State, i.e. the 500 PLN per child, which is also taken into account; this will have an impact on demand and, consequently, may contribute to a correct, consistent implementation of revenue. Mr Kozłowski's question... [[There's no bill yet.]] ... concerning the possible translation into the budget of the exchange rate differences that were adopted during the projection, when submitting the draft budget, and the courses that we are currently observing. Of course, if such a scale, such a level of these courses were maintained, but any surveys and studies suggest that the average of these courses will be much lower than the current one in 2016, but these exchange rate differences could of course be translated primarily into debt service costs, but given the sensitivity of these elements, i.e. those courses, to the budget implementation in this area, such mechanisms and such phenomena have been foreseen and there is no concern here that measures or changes in these rates could in any way jeopardise the secured measures for the implementation of debt service costs. Thank you very much. We will answer your remaining questions in writing. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u185	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to ask: Is the government considering securing the right resources and returning to continuing the very important investment that the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński started, this concerns the construction of the Beskidska Integration Road, namely the one common ring road of four cities: Andrychow, Wadowice, Kalwaria Zebrzydowska and Kęt? It is also intended to be a convenient transport route connecting the capital of Małopolska with Podbeskid and Silesia. Unfortunately, I regret to remind you that this investment was frozen after the government of the coalition PO-PSL in 2007 and did not find recognition for the next 8 years. Therefore, in the interests of road safety and development of Western Małopolska and Podbeskidzia, please inform about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ms Krystyna Skowrońska from the PO proposed a transfer of PLN 10 million from the President's Chancellery's budget to the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. This is in a situation where the President's Office's budget remains at the level of expenditure of the previous year this year. After all, we remember a few months ago President Bronisław Komorowski cleaned up the money, even in such a way that he handed over additional compensation in the amount of quarterly earnings to outgoing staff in addition to the checks provided for in the Labour Code. In the preparation of the 2015 budget, the members of the PO-PSL coalition refused to accept the amendments proposed by the PIS aimed at transferring PLN 150 million to the creation of a reserve for running medical and dental offices in schools, concerning an increase of PLN 100 million in the pool of social assistance and help in nature, as well as amounts for feeding children - also by PLN 100 million. In both cases, the money was supposed to come from increased budget revenue from CIT. This statement clearly shows the political hypocrisy of the opposition Members who pretend to remember nothing of their time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u188	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo, I'm declaring a time-out. 18. Thank you kindly. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 38 hrs. 18 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 2 and 3 of the agenda: 2. Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office (Prints 162, 162-A and 197). 3. Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law of the European Union Law introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office (Prints No 163 and No 198). I would like to ask Mr Mark Ast to present the Commission's reports in prints 197 and 198. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to report to the committee on Parliament's draft laws in prints 197 and 198 Law of the Public Prosecutor's Office and Rules introducing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Commission examined these two projects at its meetings on 14 and 22 January. On 14 January, she set up a subcommittee, which was held on 19 and 20 January, which resulted in the presentation of a report to the High Committee. As I said, on 22 January, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights adopted the reports that I am presenting to the High House today. Indeed, the procedure was quite rapid, while the discussion that was held both in the subcommittee and in the committee meeting was substantive and very deep. A number of amendments were tabled during the procedure of the laws both on the part of the applicants and on the part of the Members of the opposition. In fact, the discussion that took place at the meeting of both the subcommittee and the committee was actually based on two completely different ways of looking at the prosecutor's office, two concepts of the functioning of the prosecutor's office. In fact, as regards these amendments, which are included in the reports today as minority proposals, because 61 minority proposals have been submitted to the draft law on the prosecutor's office, while to the provisions introducing 14 minority proposals, it is practically possible to say that if we read the first minority proposal submitted by Mr Dolniak and Mr Gasiuk-Pihowicz, this amendment, this minority proposal is based on keeping the state so far so that the prosecutor general is simply independent of the Minister of Justice. And as a result of this position are further amendments which have been tabled and which are now included in the reports. The same is true of these first amendments, which are essential to the draft laws, from Members of the Civic Platform, Mr Kropiwnicki and Mr Myrchy. Of course, some of the subsequent amendments also dealt with other issues, but I am talking about this fundamental discussion that has been going on. On the part of the applicants, of course, the amendments aimed in turn at improving these projects in the version in which they were presented to the High House. These amendments were, of course, accepted. A number of legislative amendments were also tabled in agreement with our Legislative Office and these amendments were generally taken into account. In this situation, of course, on behalf of the High Commission, I ask the High House to approve the proposed laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Wójcik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present our position, which, of course, is the acceptance of both draft laws. First of all, it can be said that the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, a law that has been expected for many, many years... Even in this Chamber there are former ministers of justice who remember perfectly how the work on changes in the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office has been carried out, but ultimately they have not been finalised. It can be said that today, for the first time in 30 years, the government has presented its proposal, a vision of how the Polish prosecutor sees it. These attacks on Minister Zbigniew Ziobra in recent days mean that the substantive arguments have been exhausted, the personalisation of the attack has begun. I, of course, encourage all opponents to get acquainted with what happened 10 years ago, especially with the increase in confidence in the Polish prosecutor's office during the times of government in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, as the detection of crimes increased, the number of crimes decreased to answer the question whether these attacks are justified. The most important change is the merger between the offices of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General. Today we can say here that we are finishing an experiment that started the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in 2009, an experiment completely failed, an experiment which is a fruit of, among other things, an experiment. the absolute card of this bad reform, the Amber Gold scandal, but not only. Amber Gold, of course, is the most symbolic card, because 19,000. the victims and 850 million zlotys brought out this really is a huge problem... [[Take care of the junkies. SKOK-i, SKOK-i.]] On the other hand, of course, it is a case concerning the entry into the weekly, of course, a case concerning the leak of documents from the wiretap, and a few other cases where - you can say - there was still a shift of responsibility between the prosecution and politicians. From now on, you can say, since the entry into force of this law, there will be no more of this problem. At the head of the Polish prosecutor's office, the state of the politician, the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, who will refer to the 20-year tradition. It hasn't bothered anyone since 1990 for 20 years. Also in the interwar period, from 1919 until the outbreak of war, the Chief Prosecutor was also Minister of Justice. Of course, we support this connection. We strongly support the change of structure, the liquidation of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the appeal proceedings. The transfer to the central level of the fight against organised crime is also a very symbolic issue, because from now on, the most important, most difficult crimes will be carried out at central level, including corruption of judges, prosecutors, assesors, and there will be a special department for these cases. This is such a signal to gangsters that everything is back to normal that Law and Justice have kept their promise. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we absolutely support the elimination of the military base, above all in terms of the rational use of personnel. Today, prosecutors who deal with matters belonging to the jurisdiction of military courts will also deal with civil matters. It's been a postulate for many, many years. We support the transparency of disciplinary proceedings, we support the transparency of declarations of property. Despite the discussion that was held in committee, we believe that this is a postulate that also meets the environment itself. The environment will never regain confidence, it can be said that today trust in the prosecution is at a very low level if the environment also does not show what is happening inside. This is particularly a question of disciplinary action. Mandatory paper - we know that not everyone likes it, but it is pathology in our view that 40% Prosecutors in Poland are involved in the control of their colleagues in the environment. In our view, prosecutors are primarily designed to deal with criminal prosecution tasks and to be public prosecutors before courts. That's what the D.A. should be doing. The experiment is over, ladies and gentlemen. Law and Justice support parliamentary projects. That's how we're gonna get it back. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Trust in the D.A.'s office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u192	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, you say with such enthusiasm that this is the end of the experiment, but you're really starting a worse thing. What we did was not an experiment - it was a proven system solution, which may have had to be corrected, which may not have been perfect - but what PiS wants to do with the prosecution is an experiment. To politicize, to stubbornly compel 6,000. Prosecutors, eliminate the independence of prosecutors - this is an experiment, and it's very bad. Anyone who has little idea of legal life, about the functioning of the prosecution knows that it cannot succeed, that it will be a bad solution for the Polish system of law, for the Polish justice system. Prosecutors will actually become party officers, not public officials. We gave the prosecutors independence, and you're shutting her down. You're talking about the independence of the prosecution as a whole, but this is fiction, because there's no foreseen independence of the prosecution in this document. There's absolutely no strings attached to the party officers. And that's a very bad solution. Already today, about 100 prosecutors have resigned, and there will probably be more, because such a solution that the national, general or regional prosecutor will give orders to a district attorney, who to convict, who to accuse, who to dismiss, who to eavesdrop is absurd. There's never been anything like this that the A.D.A. investigates in the district attorney's office. These experiences that you want to exploit, this is the darkest period of the prosecution, the years 2005-2007. And I keep you from it, for it is very evil and harmful. The prosecutors don't want such orders from politicians because politicians don't know about it. And that's why you shouldn't go this way. You're creating a super-government, you're hoping there'll be a superhero, but it's gonna come out of this supertopus because the Attorney General can't be responsible for all the investigations, and that's exactly what you want. You want that responsibility, you'll have it. The Minister of Justice will be responsible for all the thefts. And we're gonna be the Minister of Justice to account for that. We want the Minister of Justice to be responsible for all the robberies in the stalls, for all the burglaries, because that's the solution you're making. So we expect the Minister of Justice to account for this now. You were talking about modesty, and you're increasing the powers of the Attorney General. Why do you need cars with blue roosters in the Ministry of Justice? Why do all the prosecutors need privileged cars? It's completely unnecessary. That's why it's a bad bill. We apply for rejection and a number of amendments. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u194	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr. Arkadius Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer possible to have any illusions that the Law and Justice want to politicize the prosecution. What's more, he's not hiding it at all. And this bill is the best proof of that. The Attorney General will have the authority to commission operational activities, such as wiretapping, to all law enforcement authorities. We hear it's supposed to strengthen the D.A.'s office. Give these powers to the prosecutors, because right now you're only strengthening the Minister of Justice, and it's only political. We are hearing about the liquidation of the prosecutor's office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which are to be replaced by the regional and national prosecutor's office. Bullshit. This isn't a liquidation. This is just a change of the tablets; a change of the tablets that will allow the personnel to be verified and posted to work at the lowest levels of those prosecutors who will be simply inconvenient to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. In addition, we have the opportunity to fill the positions of the Minister of Justice without holding competitions. Of course, there is a record that this will take place in particularly justified cases, but only the Minister of Justice will decide about these cases. Our concerns are not unfounded, they are shared by legal environments and NGOs. You were supposed to listen to the Poles, and you totally ignore them. We fear that the prosecution in this shape will not operate under the white eagle banner, but will operate under the banner with this eagle, which is in the logo of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u196	I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The work on the new law on the prosecutor's office prompts us to reflect on what the prosecutor's office should be doing and what it should do. Well, the prosecution should be for society, not for itself or for politicians. The prosecution cannot and should not be political booty for incoming and outgoing ruling teams who once want the prosecutor general to be a minister of justice and other times to operate separately. If the prosecutor's office is to have a political element in it because of its location in the system of state authorities, then we prefer that the position of the attorney general should not be taken by the party and by the executive authority, but rather by the citizen, Grey Kowalski. Therefore, the request for the Kukiz15 movement is such that, after entering the prosecution's office in the constitution, its boss is elected by the citizens. The public will have more sense in this matter than the politicians themselves. The society is not accompanied by the temptation to use the prosecution for its own political purposes. The evaluation of the work that took place in the committee and in which I participated is not clear. The project contains a number of solutions that cannot be negatively assessed. For me, however, it is not the most important issue of the so-called. the independence of the Attorney General, who never existed. It's important for me and my club to be the prosecutor in charge of the investigation. Was such a prosecutor independent under the rule of the supposedly independent Attorney General? It just seems like some people. Let's take the case of Mr. Grabarczyk, then Minister of Justice. The prosecutor who manages to search the Minister's office and file charges is losing the case. Journalists are asking why. The answer was that he was overtired. Ask the district attorney if he was tired. Let's take the parishioner, former deputy finance minister. So what if the D.A.'s pressing charges against him if his boss's abducting him? Let's finally take Mr. Kapica's case and the charges dropped by the Attorney General in Bialystok. This was the independent prosecutor's office under the administration of an independent Attorney General, with the breath of the Platform on his back. What will be the breath of Law and Justice? [[Worse.]] [[Okay.]] If we want it to be different, fast and effective, also to the people of the candlestick, the leaders of the world of politics or business, it cannot be that the prosecutor who charges such persons loses his case, because it is not in the hands of his superiors who prefer to find another, one whose decision meets the expectations of the decision-makers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law Project on the Public Prosecutor's Office does not implement our basic motto: the Public Prosecutor's Office, not for politicians, therefore our movement, the citizens' movement, not the political movement, is in favour of rejecting it in its entirety, together with the introductory rules. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u198	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr. Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the work on procedated laws, Moderna presented a number of substantive amendments expressing our fundamental disagreement with the personal union between the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice, the only solution of this kind in Europe. The location of the Minister of Justice, an active policy, at the head of the prosecutor's office does not in any way reconcile with the principles of a democratic rule of law in which the investigating authorities must remain free of political pressure, as only such can be ensured the guarantee of a fair and impartial justice system, as pointed out in many opinions by the institutions which have submitted these opinions. However, the Members of the Law and Justice know better and ignore these opinions, pushing the anti-democratic changes in the way they are submitted so as not to carry out consultations on the ordinary legislative path. I mean, we've got a good shift. The drafts of these laws are a model example, after the Constitutional Court and civil service laws, of the ownership by the Law and Justice of subsequent institutions of the Polish state. Because how else can the liquidation of the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the National Public Prosecutor's Office is established, and the replacement of the Public Prosecutor's Office with the District Attorney's Office? It's just facade changes for the exchange of inconvenient prosecutors. In addition, under the law implementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the terms of office of district and district attorneys and their deputies expire. We are therefore dealing solely with personal changes to ensure that the authorities of the prosecutor's office are in power, not to improve the functioning of this institution. These good changes already cause strong opposition in the prosecution's office, and prosecutors announce collective dismissal. Both drafts of legislation, i.e. The law of the prosecutor's office and the rules introducing it guarantee one person: the prosecutor general - the minister of justice, even the dictatorial authority, from the appointment and dismissal of prosecutors of all levels, to the power to intervene widely in each case and communicate information about it to others and to the introduction of a stick and carrot system into the prosecutor's office, i.e. overly articulate disciplinary issues on the one hand and on the other hand unclear criteria for the allocation of prizes and promotions. Mr Fellow Members of Law and Justice! Mind your own business. You're spinning a whip on your own back and back of Poles. And once again, do you really realize the power you entrust to one person - the prosecutor general - the minister of justice? The proposed laws are detrimental to the prosecution and are incompatible with the principles of a democratic rule of law. That's why the Modern Club is filing for their rejection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u200	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Witold Zembaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u201	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The date of impact of the bill on the prosecutor's office to the marshal's staff is 24 December, which irresistibly results in the association with the Christmas present for Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. The problem is, the Minister didn't deserve this gift. The PiS gives Minister Zbigniew Ziobra the position of hegemon of the Polish justice system and absolute power over the entire prosecution body. It forms an omnipotent preparatory body. As a result of the justice system, we could see painfully in the years 2005-2007, when Zbigniew Ziobro effectively and spectacularly used his power over the prosecution. The difference is that the present proposed reform of the prosecutor's office on the possibility of political inspiration of investigations goes even further. The project is intended to legalise all the practices for which the current Minister of Justice had to explain himself to the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Responsibility for which he was to stand before the Court of State, and not only because of the absence of five Members of the Civic Platform to vote. Now, of course, the law will no longer stand in the way of political pressure on prosecutors leading the case and in the manual control of investigations, wiretap on demand, provocation against the opposition, prosecution press conferences, extortion from the prosecution of information from investigations, public prosecutions or controlled leaks, the specialties of Minister Ziobra. The politicisation and hierarchisation of the prosecution is a serious and dangerous abuse. The applicant country itself will be the victim of this system. You have no guarantee that Zbigniew Ziobro, who once betrayed your president and yours, [[♪ The bell ♪]] formation, it won't do it again. You have no guarantee that this camera will not be used against you personally. So I appeal to your senses: withdraw from this wrong change and do not support this project, vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u202	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present the position of the parliamentary club regarding the parliamentary draft Law on the Prosecutor's Office. As at first reading, the idea seems to be that the project was supposed to be a panacea, a means to improve the functioning of the prosecutor's office, but it does not yet apply, and it already introduces through the wave the experienced prosecutors to paralyze in this institution. The bill was supposed to be a tool to fight crime, and yet many records indicate that it could be a tool, but to fight politically in the hands of the Law and Justice. What is its critical assessment based on the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party? First of all, we are skeptical about this personal union that you are proposing - the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. The objective, ladies and gentlemen, is clear, that is to say, strict submission of the prosecution to the executive authority. But what's next? The prosecutor will be required to follow the orders, guidelines and instructions of the district attorney's superior. So not only is it a direct superior, but in the broader sense of the general superior, which increases submission and eliminates any independence. This is too far-reaching interference of the Attorney General in the prosecution's proceedings. The superior shall issue the order concerning the content of the procedural action in writing and, at the request of the prosecutor, together with the reasons. It is extremely important that the order is included in the case manual. The question is, why not the main file? The inclusion in the cache file limits the ability of the party to control the proceedings, which makes the procedure less transparent and restricts the rights of the party in some way. An important concern is the introduction of the possibility for the prosecutor to take over cases conducted by subordinate prosecutors and carry out their activities, which means the possibility of taking over investigations under the supervision of the Attorney General. The proposal for an article is worrying. 12 in the light of which the Attorney General will be able to provide the media with information from the ongoing investigation. Yet, in the light of the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, information to the public about ongoing investigations requires that we do so with the care and restraint necessary to respect the presumption of innocence. I have recalled the words of a well-known State, and especially of Minister Ziobra, the sentence concerning the Garlick case against Poland. According to the study prepared at the Centre for Research, Studies and Legislative Affairs of the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, the provision in question would in practice limit the secrecy of the preparatory procedure, since the possibility of providing information would not only concern the general public's activities of the prosecution but also specific cases, which should also be understood as a preliminary investigation. The Centre's experts also requested the content of the justification for the project, which concluded that Article would not apply in the cases of disclosure of the information referred to above. 156 § 5 Code of Criminal Procedure. The Attorney General or the Prosecutor-General authorised by him would not be liable for any kind of liability, whether civil or property. You are proposing to appoint regional prosecutors in place of the prosecutor's office. This leads to an unjustified lack of symmetrical organizational structures of the prosecution with judicial structures - lack of public access to regional prosecutors, risk of disorganization of work, in the case of the establishment of six regional prosecutors instead of the present 11 appeals, degradation of smaller centres and unjustified increase of prestige and the role of large centres. Another question I'm going to express is whether I'm going to start with a question to the applicants. Do you know who is the author of these words: the right of proof is not only related to legal categories, it is related to the whole system of ideas, views, beliefs, in other words, to the whole philosophical worldview prevailing in society? None of you, fortunately. This thought was expressed by Andrei Januariewicz Wyszynski, considered the most bloody prosecutor of the Soviet Union. Whenever general clauses begin to appear in the domain of public law, including in particular criminal law, this does not bode well and is a symbol of a departure from democratic principles. And there was a general clause in the project. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party maintains the motion to reject the bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] And she's making amends to him.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u204	Thank you, sir. High Izbo! 33 members of the parliamentarians signed up for the question. If there are no more volunteers, I close the list of those who are saved for questioning. I'm setting time for the question-- 1.5 minutes. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! At the beginning, I would like to remind all of you that at the first reading of the draft Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, the time for asking questions for Members was only set for one minute. I have an urgent request for your future marshal that this time be marked for at least two minutes in such an important debate. Going to the point. After considering the Parliamentary draft Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office by the extraordinary subcommittee, I still have an up-to-date question about the solution contained in the article. 137 § 2 of the proposed law, which assumes that the act or omission taken by the prosecutor solely in the public interest does not constitute a disciplinary offence. Interpretation of that provision, that provision in conjunction with the definition of disciplinary misconduct provided for in Article. 137 § 2 of the proposed law leads to the conclusion that, in the name of an indeterminate public interest, a public officer who is particularly obliged to act on the basis of and within the law's limits, may proceed to an obvious and gross violation of the law or a lack of dignity of the office without risking disciplinary sanctions. Therefore, I ask the projectors to clarify whether the use of an extremely vague and judgmental criterion of social interest under this provision does not introduce in [[♪ The bell ♪]] the nature of the freedom of the prosecutors' disciplinary responsibility. I would also like to ask you to provide examples of behaviour which, in the opinion of the designers, would comply with this provision. Finally, this provision is one of the most controversial in this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u206	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The bill's designs are not only worrying, but widespread criticism. The provisions of Article are particularly dangerous. 12 Laws to provide comprehensive information to the various more indeterminate, media about cases at the stage of preparatory proceedings. We all remember the scandalous example of Dr. G's case. Unfortunately, the rules will cause an avalanche of such cases, i.e. accusations at the stage of preparatory proceedings. The writings of this article are very dangerous for citizens. At the preparatory stage, data are collected that are very sensitive to citizens. Their legal access is an attack on civil liberties. Why does the PiS expose Poles to such dangers? It's not a good change. This is a crazy change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u208	Please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota. There's no envoy. In that case, I would ask Mrs Margaret Navel to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office raises great controversy and concerns, especially the provision of the article. 136 § 2. It includes a definition of prosecutorial disciplinary offences. According to him, if the prosecutor is acting in the public interest, all infringements of the law shall not be subject to disciplinary action. It's in case of bad will a solid immunity. A broad interpretation of the wording of "social interest' may lead to the prosecutor's averting disciplinary liability even in the event of a gross and obvious breach of the law. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, the prosecution's action in the public interest is part of his profession. Therefore, I ask the applicants to present the concrete intention of this provision, which gives the loyal prosecutors the opportunity to break the law without any consequences. And I also wanted to ask whether the projectors maintain the position expressed by prosecutor Peterowicz that the prosecution should not be independent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u210	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u211	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's a very bad bill. A law that spoils a country that transforms the Republic into a state of emergency. Many of the shortcomings of this law have already been mentioned by my previous speakers. I would like to draw attention to the puriazum, the puriazum contained in the article. 57. It's a crazy dangerous recipe that's gonna dishermet the classified information protection system. In § 5 of this Article, drafters propose that, in particularly justified cases, the Attorney General may, for the purposes of the preparatory procedure, abolish or amend the security clause imposed on the document or material by the competent authority under Article. 6th Bill. Art. The 6th Act on the Protection of Secret Information doesn't talk about bodies, it only states about persons. Art. 6 provides for a specific regime for repealing the clause. This law, this provision should be assessed by the Committee on Special Services. Mr. Marshal, there's a bomb here. There's a bomb in here because it's in your mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day [[♪ The bell ♪]] we have the content: the removal or modification of the classification shall be possible only after written consent has been given by the person referred to in paragraph. One or her supervisor. In the mouth. 5 There is an even more serious issue: written consent to carry out the action referred to in paragraph. 3, in the case of classified information, the head of the organizational unit in which the material has been classified shall express the secret information. This recipe doesn't contain...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u212	Mr President, please proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u213	...no reference. Mr. Marshal can stop this delayed-fire bomb. Please refer the project to the Special Services Committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u215	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! There is no doubt that the prosecutor, in carrying out his professional activities, should, or even must, carry them out in accordance with applicable law. And that's what the bill has been used for so far, which says that the prosecutor is responsible for professional misconduct, including the obvious and gross insult to the law and the lack of dignity of the office, and that the prosecutor is responsible for disciplinary action. That record was very valid. Meanwhile, ladies and gentlemen, you are trying to introduce a rule which, in my opinion, opens up a field for abuse and gives potentially green light to the application of provocation to Poles. He says that it is not a disciplinary offence or omission of a prosecutor taken solely in the public interest. I can't imagine the prosecution taking other actions, actions that are not compatible with the public interest. I therefore ask the question: What do you think may be the potential actions of the prosecutor's office that are not compatible with the social interest? Are these possible political actions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u216	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask two questions to you who are the authors of this bill. First question. What is the justification for the possibility of detaining the existing positions of some of the prosecutors who hold prosecutorial positions in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Chief Military Prosecutor's Office, the Appellate Prosecutors' Offices and the Military District Attorneys? Isn't the fact that under the proposed rules they can be transferred to serve in the lower-ranking prosecutor's office simply means a simple purge, a verification of uncomfortable prosecutors who will not obey Minister Ziobra? And the second question, no less important, in my opinion. Please tell me in which European countries where the Minister for Justice or another member of the Government is also acting as Prosecutor General of the European Union. I would like to point out that in none of the 27 countries of the European Union there is this personal union. So why are you introducing solutions known only to the east of Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u218	Please take the floor of Mrs Kinga Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u219	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The merger of the role of Minister of Justice and the Attorney General has nothing to do with the fight against crime. You didn't want to listen to people. The Civic Platform specially organized a public hearing and no prosecutor, no specialist had any doubts about the fact that this law has nothing to do with the fight against crime, but rather about the fight against the opposition. The Attorney General has to be independent because he can't be, like he used to be, a postman between the Ministry of Justice and the streets. Nowogrodzka, carrying papers that only concerned politicians. I understand that you have said, Mrs Szydło said in the European Parliament that you want to implement the programme. But where in the program was the ownership of the state? Is your goal at this point - some have already been realized - at the beginning set up public media to praise the Law and Justice, and if someone is hating, then to observe it? We had this situation today, which unfortunately one of the Internet users was searching the apartment because he was hating. You want to change the ordination so that the PiS can rule forever. Later... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, no one is able to determine unconstitutionality because you immediately paralyzed the Constitutional Tribunal. And at the very end of that change of ordination... But the interesting thing is, if you change your ordination, if you can't be elected a member of the Law and Justice at this point...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u220	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u221	...and he'll have a chance to be a member of the Civic Platform, and Mr. Ziobro will be sent to him...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u223	...and the documents will be collected on him. Is that your plan? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u224	Thank you, Member. Mr Norbert Obricki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u225	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The National Council of the Prosecutor's Office has made it clear that, in its opinion, the proposed regulations give rise to too far-reaching submission to the prosecutor's office of executive authority. What will Law and Justice respond to the allegations of a body that has so far watched over the independence of prosecutors from politicians? Aren't you ashamed that you were called by the sleep. President Kaczyński's Attorney General Andrzej Seremet doesn't leave anything to your amendment? He recently said that solutions which interfere so much with the prosecution's procedural activities could not only jeopardise its independence but would also be incompatible with European standards. It's a bad experiment. There is no country in the European Union where there would be a link between these positions. And second question. In addition to strengthening direct authority over the secondary prosecutors, the Attorney General receives, as amended, the right to the unauthorized provision of information related to the investigation to other persons, including the media, by the prosecutor conducting the investigation. What does it mean to return to others? Does the Attorney General have an unlimited right here, both personally and in question? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u226	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. There is no Member. In that case, I would ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! I don't know if this transmission is online, but if it is, I wanted to tell you in front of the TVs that we're talking about the prosecution, and we have five members of the law and justice department. I know they're at the president's, but we're talking about a very important bill. So it's very empty in this room on this side. My question is to Minister Ziobra, who is behind my back, and now he's having a chat with the marshal. Minister! I have a question for you that I didn't get the answers to last time. I'd like to know what the definition of law and justice of the public interest is. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: The Minister is not paying attention at all.]] And the other is, don't you think the Minister... Is he behind my back? No, he's already in jail. Don't you think the minister that the Attorney General should be presumably apolitical, as is the case with other prosecutors? I do not know how you feel about this, but as Modern, we are in favour of introducing a record in the Public Prosecutor's Office Act prohibiting the prosecutor-general from belonging to any political party, as well as engaging in current political activities. I would very much ask you to answer my two questions, past and present. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u228	Thank you, Member. You asked Minister Zbigniew Ziobro for the floor. You're welcome, Minister. [[Is he in a hurry to see the president?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[I wonder if the Minister will stay until the end.]] Please be patient and answer all your questions to Deputy Minister Święczkowski... [[Voice from the room: The questions were for you.]] ... who would like to [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's gonna answer those questions that... [[And what do you do to me, Deputy Minister?]] ...have fallen, and the ones that will fall. We take your interesting questions with respect and interest even when we do not share their suggestions. But to one of them, let me, however, I will refer right away, ad hoc, because the case is hot and I think you need a comment too. A moment ago, a Member from the Civic Platform - I apologize if I twist my name because I had no pleasure to meet Mrs Kinga Gajewska earlier, if I remember correctly... Is that so? [[Yes.]] If I remember correctly, yes, and if... [[Good.]] ...no, it is not the name of the Member here at the moment that is the essence of the matter. In any case, the European Commissioner from the Civic Platform has put it this way that the rule of law and justice is responsible for what happened today in Nowy Sącz and what was the experience of a young Internet user who criticized the President-in-Office of the Republic on the Internet. It is necessary to have a little more than confidence in order to draw this thesis from this event and the legal state that is in force in Poland today, because if someone is criticized for this event, and we fully join this criticism as Members and representatives of the Government of Law and Justice, it is this independent prosecutor's office. This independent prosecutor appointed and created by the Platform today committed herself to political action so as not to say provocation and sent the police to the young Internet, just as this independent prosecutor used to send police... [[That's what you're doing.]] ...to the Anticomor, a young English student, because he criticized Bronisław Komorowski. [[Now what are you doing?]] We're done with the provocations. That's why we're taking out this independent D.A.'s office that... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u230	Excuse me, Minister. Dear Member and honourable Member, please... [[Me?]] Yes, I am speaking to Krystyna Skowronska. [[There won't be a minister. That's why I'm asking questions.]] But, ma'am, you are now answering a specific question from your club friend, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, and please don't jamm it. [[And he's talking nonsense.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u231	I understand that you are nervous about giving real information that is uncomfortable for you, but a little respect for the truth, although the truth is not popular among some groups, especially the Civic Platform, when it comes to Internet users and their surveillance, because a young English student has learned what it means when the prosecution is so-called. independent, just as a young man in Nowy Sącz learned today. [[The bad guy found out, too.]] The police are obliged to execute the prosecution's decisions. You have to have basic legal knowledge, or you don't have it, to question it. So the police got an order from the D.A.'s office, and she had to do it because she would have been liable for it if she hadn't. The independent D.A.'s office just ordered us to search the house this morning, perhaps at 6:00 a.m., a young Internet user in Nowy Sącz. And that's a scandal. We want such scandals not to happen, so we want to link the prosecutor's office with the Minister of Justice's office, so that the executive authority is responsible for what the prosecution is doing, so that it is properly criticised if such an event occurs, but to respond to such situations, possibly prevent it from having tools to influence the prosecutor's office so that such situations do not happen, and the prosecution, yes, sends police at 6 a.m., but to dangerous gangsters and criminals, because this is the expectation of Poles, the right expectation of Poles. So, ladies and gentlemen, a little decency, honesty and truth. [[You, too, Minister.]] The truth in the eyes of the circle of the Civic Platform, which created an independent prosecution, which today again haunted a young Internet user, this time in Nowy Sącz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Who's talking?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u232	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u233	High Izbo! Thank you very much, Minister, for this emotional speech. I regret not having this honor and not getting the Minister's personal answer. I would like to ask the reasons for the provision that the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice and the Chief Prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office, will be able to personally provide the media with information from the ongoing proceedings and will not be liable for such civil and property liability activities. I wanted to ask the Minister of Justice, at which point in the Constitution the right to lynching is provided for the Minister of Justice, because, in fact, the proposed provisions may lead to a situation of media judgments on the basis of preliminary and not subject to an assessment of the court of information. This is contrary to the principle of presumption of innocence. For persons performing e.g. a public confidence competition such a hasty press conference will mean an immediate sentence. And we are not talking about hypothetical situations, because false accusations have often occurred during press conferences during previous rule of law and justice. They destroyed not only the good name of falsely accused persons, but for example for many years stopped the development of transplantology. Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro paid $30,000 for his hasty media performances. PLN compensation, and the publication of an apology cost him another few hundred thousand zlotys. Why should Polish taxpayers pay bills for lack of reason and control of Zbigniew Ziobra in the future? The painful financial consequences explain, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why does the law on the civil liability of prosecutors bother the Minister and his party so much? Are we to understand, then, that the Minister is planning further press conferences to slander citizens? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u234	Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szapka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the worst law in a series of very bad... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...which is being prosecuted in this term of office in the Sejm, because if we put this law together with the Police Act, which significantly strengthens the prosecution, then the term "police state" really will not be abuse. But my question concerns the article mentioned here. 136 § 2 because the project assumes the possibility of breaking the law in the name of the social interest. Who will define this social interest, and who will decide that? A State apparatus outside the law is the greatest threat to the rule of law. I have another question for the rapporteur, Mr Ast, because this law will be really very difficult to defend against the Constitutional Tribunal, even more difficult than the Constitutional Tribunal Act. I hope you can handle it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u236	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u237	Dear Marshal, Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The draft law on the merger of the functions of Minister of Justice and the Attorney General assumes the possibility of giving direct orders to the prosecutors in charge of the case, not only by the superiors, but also by the prosecutor-general himself. In my opinion, it's a very dangerous recipe. He completely eliminates the independence of the prosecutors, and in my view, the prosecutor can only become a political instrument of the Minister of Justice. Moreover, these dispositions can be transmitted both orally and in writing, but they can be sent to the so-called. cache acts, i.e. de facto they will remain hidden. These dispositions do not have to be governed by the rules and can be initiated or terminated on order, while the parties to the proceedings will not know what reasons they were guided by the prosecutor when he took action on this matter. I'd like to ask if there's a rule of law for sure, Minister. If the honourable Minister thinks so, I would ask you to explain how this independence is to be implemented in the light of the facts I have just stated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u238	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about personal matters. Specifically, there is a provision in the Act giving the possibility of hiring assistant prosecutors, who are given a very broad authority with the possibility of questioning witnesses and carrying out pre-trial proceedings. In turn the authors of the project in the article. 176 § 1, specifying the requirements for these assistants, restricted themselves to higher education and not necessarily legal education. That's why I'm asking. How do you guarantee that you will not be employed as an assistant prosecutor, for example, an AWF graduate? Or polonistics? That's my question. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bullshit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u240	Please take the floor of Mr Adam Cyranski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u241	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! You are introducing the establishment of the Internal Affairs Department as part of the prosecution's office, which has not been sufficiently justified. It is intended to deal with crime investigations among judges and prosecutors. What are the statistics of this type of crime today? Is the path of this type of proceedings insufficient to date? Are funds planned in the budget for this type of institution? Isn't it going to turn into a political police force? Will it not grow to great proportions by using provocation against judges and prosecutors, paralyzing cases and proceedings? Doesn't that reduce confidence in these professions? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u242	Please take the floor of Mr Adam... excuse me, Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every power corrupts, but the absolute power that Minister Ziobro receives is absolutely corrupting. You often repeat how important people, professionals, are to serve society. It doesn't matter what political views they have. That's why I'm asking. I would like to know what the personnel verification you propose to carry out in the winding-up of the appeal and general prosecutors' offices is supposed to be. The provisions of the bill allow for the transfer of prosecutors to other units without their consent. We already know that a lot of prosecutors, more than 100 people, have applied for a retiring period. I would like to ask you how you will complete these gaps, staff gaps with regard to the most experienced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u244	Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wolf.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, what is the purpose, what are the rational reasons for informing the media, for example, of the progress made in the preparatory procedure, because this possibility is given by Article. 12 § 2 of the proposed change. The Attorney General, the head of the office of the prosecutor's office or the authorised prosecutor may inform the media of the preparatory proceedings, but what is, I think, even more dangerous, can do so without the consent of the prosecutor conducting the proceedings. So, theoretically, the prosecutor who conducts the proceedings does not agree to, at least, a press conference on which facts fall, which may later complicate the conduct of the proceedings. Here's the next thing. Do you foresee any responsibility, for example disciplinary responsibility, towards prosecutors who reveal certain issues if they do not find any confirmation, any further proceedings? Or did you just create an art for that? 137 §2 which says that if there is an important social interest, then practically the prosecutor can do anything and is impunity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u246	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Kostusia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u247	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! What does it mean that operational activities can be carried out when they relate to the case? On what basis and on what grounds will this relationship be determined? Who will determine him, and who will check the validity of these decisions? Minister, what is the purpose of setting up internal affairs departments in the D.A.'s office? Is this gonna be an internal police force made up of prosecutors who's gonna go after prosecutors? Is that how you want to influence independent prosecutors and get them to work? And finally, why would you want to give a prosecutor-general, who will be a politician at the same time, the right to instruct the prosecutors under his authority to perform surgical and cognitive activities, in a situation where neither the police nor the prosecutors themselves have foreseen such action? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u248	Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A question for the Minister. Since the Members of the opposition on the radio, on television, in the media are threatening public opinion, they are threatening prosecutors because this new law will be a tool in the hands of the Minister against the prosecutors who conduct the proceedings, will be a tool against the independence of prosecutors, I would like to ask you this question: Can the Minister reassure both Members of the opposition and the public that this law, firstly, strengthens the position of prosecutors, secondly, will improve the prosecution's activities and, thirdly, will be an excellent tool in the fight against crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u250	Please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This debate, like no other debate, shows how important the Constitutional Tribunal is in the legal system of the rule of law. This is why he was appointed years ago, once, in other European countries in general, to guarantee civil liberties and freedoms. The weakening of the Constitutional Tribunal deprives us of an important arbitrage which can clearly and precisely indicate any infringement in the laws adopted. There were often questions here: What other rights will appear here? Is the current majority so afraid of the Constitutional Court? This law is burdened with mines - it is clear from this debate - which, by exploding, can potentially hit citizens' freedoms and civil liberties very hard. My specific question is this: Why is the Minister of Justice given the power to declassify all files, even with the negative opinion of the body that gave this clause? It is dangerous and creates a temptation to manually control and search the so-called. hooks on uncomfortable citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u252	Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very noteworthy: indeed, four people from the ruling party in the courtroom. Congratulations. You are planning to liquidate the National Public Prosecutor's Council for the National Prosecutor's Council, to liquidate the Public Prosecutor's Office for the National Public Prosecutor's Office. What is the meaning of the planned changes in the names of these institutions, and what important purpose are you going to achieve in addition to spending meaninglessly another million zlotys on changes in signposts, brochures, business cards and all the materials that will be required in connection with the change of name? For what purpose do you want to spend meaninglessly more money, which in the budget is still little in the context of other electoral promises? In addition, you are planning to liquidate the military prosecutor's office - the question of whether it is not in revenge for the Smolensk investigation - and including it in the structures of the U.S. Attorney's Office while maintaining its existing structures. On the other hand, the proposed amendment does not provide for a mechanism to appoint prosecutors in military organisational cells of persons who have completed military training, but also allows for the appointment of reserve officers. How is this change supposed to improve the quality of the prosecution's affairs in the field of military matters? Conducting these cases will be possible for the prosecutor who has so far had nothing to do with this matter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't this just a gateway to allowing yourself to set up a team of prosecutors, not necessarily military, to reopen the Smoleńsk disaster that this team will issue a ruling that is in order? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u254	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the article. 75 § 1 of the draft qualification requirements for the Attorney General, including integrity. The lack of a legal definition of this concept can be cited here in the judgments of the Supreme Administrative Court of 5 April 2001 and 18 June 2001, in which it is indicated that integrity must be understood to mean the characteristics of character such as nobility, integrity, honesty, which are attributes which value a particular person exclusively in the ethical and moral sphere rather than intellectual and professional. Here's my question to the Prime Minister, I regret that the Prime Minister has no way of dealing with this article when the bill comes into force, and at your pace, this could happen this week when Zbigniew Ziebra was appointed Minister of Justice. Besides, it's an art. 75 of the proposed law, indicating the formal requirements to be met by a prosecutor-general, reduces their scope in relation to the current state and will consequently be lower than those of the applicant. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u256	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was the Civic Platform and the PSL in 2009 that independentd the prosecution from the Minister of Justice. Today, prosecutors, including D.A. Seremet, elected by the D.A. President Lech Kaczyński states that the solutions to law and justice will significantly interfere with the prosecution's procedural activities, will jeopardise its independence, but will also be incompatible with European standards. I have a question for the applicants: Do the projectors realise that in no European Union country, the Minister, or politician, is at the same time a prosecutor general? Such solutions operate, but in the Russian Federation or Belarus. Will the subsequent changes made by Law and Justice be modelled on the standards of Russia and Belarus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: It is in Russia that is separated.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u258	Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u259	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! Which district attorney will decide on a request for a change of command? Question two. In view of the proposed change in the name currently in force, will the appeal prosecutor's office be changed to the regional prosecutor's office with regard to appeals courts? Question three. What categories of cases will be dealt with by the local departments of the Department of Justice. organized crime and corruption? Question four. Why didn't the designers standardise the name for the employees of the prosecution, why are there three categories of employees? Question five. Don't you think that calling for changes in the provisions of the Act of 18 December 1998 on IPN is incorrect because the duties incumbent on military prosecutors have been fulfilled by 20 March 1999? Article 4 is replaced by the following: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Question six. Is the provisions of Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 and 8 of the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office are not burdened with error, because [[♪ The bell ♪]] do not contain amendments in force from 21 August 2015? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u260	Please take the floor of Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The first question, general, is that you did not sign this parliamentary project by Minister Ziobro, and the weapon with a stubborn maniac of this project, you did not sign the Marshal Brudziński, hence you do not support or submit such a project. I always knew that Minister Ziobro was trying to be ambitious, he wanted a lot of power, but the Minister didn't sign up for this project. Why? I am very concerned that this new law on the prosecution does not define an important social interest. The Attorney General will issue instructions in every case, inform about the preparatory proceedings, which has not yet been done, this is a restriction on the confidentiality of the preparatory proceedings. These are cardinal errors in this bill. And then there's the institutional reconstruction. From the Attorney General's office to the regional prosecutor's office, change from 11 to 6. Minister, what is this supposed to do? Politics on TV, politicians at the head, Attorney General, ethic on TV. The Minister has often performed, we have had the opportunity several times in Parliament, when you were in opposition and when you were Minister, to see how many mistakes were made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you sanctioning today that you are not responsible for any mistakes in the prosecution's proceedings, including your previous mistakes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u262	Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new Law on the Prosecutor's Office provides for a combination of the functions of the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Justice, which is negatively assessed by a number of institutions, including the National Council of the Prosecutor's Office. It is raised, among others. the issue of apoliticity of the prosecutor's office and the possibility of serious conflicts of interest. Minister, what will happen in the event that the Attorney General is acting before the Constitutional Tribunal, giving an opinion on the constitutionality of the bill drawn up in the Ministry of Justice? Are you gonna be a judge on your own case? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u264	Mr Jakub Rutnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The applicant spoke a lot about the issues. Mr President, more courage must be said about the biggest financial crisis in recent years, about the SKOKs. I think that maybe the new prosecution, under the leadership of Mr Ziobra, will explain this very quickly, that hundreds or thousands, hundreds of thousands of Poles must at this moment be made up to keep savings in the SKOKs. The draft changes include records on the basis of which prosecutors' files will be able to make available not only to their superiors, not only to the prosecutor general, the minister of justice, but also to third parties. Who exactly does the inventor have in mind? Isn't this about the possibility of submitting specific case files to President Kaczyński's desk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u266	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Are the costs to be incurred by the State Treasury as a result of compensation for the so-called. leaks controlled to the media? Second question: What really justifies the application of a general social interest clause in order to deplete disciplinary misconduct by action or omission of the prosecutor in charge? And the third question. Once the law enters into force, and it turns out that these hundred applications for retirement from prosecutors are just the tip of the iceberg, how will this staff deficit be supplemented so as not to affect the activity and efficiency of the prosecutor's office, and so that it does not turn out that this announced improvement of the prosecution's activities as a result of the implementation of this law will prove to be something that will actually lead to paralysis? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u268	I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I consulted with prosecutors and lawyers in Poznań to get to know and better understand your intentions, which I read in this bill. I have received feedback from this community absolutely criticizing this bill. So that I raise here the opinion of Mr Adam Szłapka, that this is the worst of the worst laws of the 8th term of the Sejm. My question is: What are the reasons for the applicant's personal union in one person, the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General? A similar model of legal structure does not exist in any other country of the European Union. You are misleading the public by saying that you have modelled on the standards generally applicable in the European Union. There was nowhere the possibility of direct manual control, directing preparatory proceedings by the Minister of Justice. The main objective, in the statement of reasons, is to reduce crime in Poland. My question: How will this change, the union of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, lead to a reduction in crime in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u270	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Uruski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u271	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask you what the prosecution's supervision of surgical and cognitive activities is like at the moment, e.g. in the context of the disclosure of information about the illegal eavesdropping of journalists? Does the Attorney General have instruments to prevent such practices? Does the current law regulate this, and does it change anything about it? And the second question to the applicant: Does the proposed project also work in other countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u272	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elizabeth Stępień.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, You mentioned the need to calm down, because Members sound, and I will only say this: you have to read with understanding. For what purpose does the project envisage the possibility of providing third parties with information on the activities of the prosecution and details of investigations? They are to be transmitted without the consent of the prosecutor conducting the investigation. What will be the significance of the concept of secrecy of the preparatory proceedings? The record gives the possibility of violating the rights and constitutional guarantees of the citizen. This message was already in place in 2005 and 2007, when Mr Zbigniew Ziobro gave the contents of the investigations to President Jarosław Kaczyński. The draft of this law is really in a hurry. And I will say one thing: Hurry is indicated, but when catching fleas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u274	Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I took part in the conclusion of this discussion on this extremely important law concerning the merger of the functions of Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General. This is another change after the Constitutional Court, the Civil Service Act or the Public Media Act, a change which, in my deep conviction, is of a systemic nature. I still have the overwhelming impression that you didn't talk about it, that you didn't announce that kind of systemic change in your election program. I would like to draw your attention to this law, that it provides for a combination of the functions of prosecutor and minister of justice, whereas the prosecutor is such a quasi-court authority. This is particularly the case in preparatory proceedings. My question: How do you intend to maintain this independence? Because there is no doubt that the independence of the judicial and executive authority should be dealt with in the state. How are you going to maintain this independence when you're the boss? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The prosecution's office will be a politician, a politician from the first ranks, who, in his previous activities as Minister of Justice, revealed the tendency to manually control the prosecution? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u276	Thank you. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Bogdan Święczkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u277	My dear Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Minister! I would like to answer a number of questions that have been raised today in the course of your club statements, as well as individual questions. At first, however, I would like to express my opinion that it is a pity that at least some of you have not read the transcript of the first reading of the law, because to many of these questions I have already answered, in my opinion and in my opinion exhaustive, but of course I am also obliged today to give you an answer to these recurring questions and of course I will. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the general allegations that this new law leads to the politicisation of the prosecutor's office, the liquidation of the independence of the prosecutor's office, prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth asking the question of what was going on in the years 2009... in principle 2010, 2015 under the rule of the law adopted by the Civic Platform and PSL, so-called. An independent prosecutor's office. It was so strange, ladies and gentlemen, that in investigations into vice-ministers, Mr. Kapica or Mr. Parishianovich, the independent prosecutor's office, the superiors in the independent prosecutor's office were repealing the prosecution decisions of prosecutors investigating possible charges to be brought against those politicians associated with the government of the Civic Platform. How is the question of the independence of the prosecutor's office in the case of an investigation concerning inter alia. Minister Grabarczyk and the decisions that took place in the course of this investigation, which led to several police officers being charged with criminal charges, while those in the leadership of the Civic Platform did not receive such charges? Ladies and gentlemen, another matter. Participation of prosecutors in the execution of procedural activities - directly by prosecutors - in the investigation of eavesdropping of the most important persons in the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. The prosecutors went into the editor's office of a well-known weekly. How is this, this case, this strange temporal coincidence in the execution of these actions and the simultaneous statements of the prominent representatives of that authority? We can list at least a dozen such examples, ladies and gentlemen, which we know about, for example. Elewarru's case, another one, and things that we've only heard rumors about that we don't have access to, but we'll probably also explain in the future whether such situations have happened. So that, ladies and gentlemen, due to the fact that this change, drastic, introduced in 2010, has actually led to the collapse of the Polish prosecutor's office, and in particular the rules in force in the Polish prosecutor's office for many, many years, i.e. the principles of hierarchical submission and uniformity of the prosecutor's office, this must change. In view of the above, it has been proposed by your Members to meet the challenges of the 21st century, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Not a post-communist law, based on the 1985 Act, but a law that creates modern solutions, the possibility of flexible action in the event of various criminal threats in the field of prosecution, and then prosecution by prosecutors of criminals or suspects or accused persons. This bill fulfils all these conditions. The provisions in this respect have been made clear, clear and there are no errors or abuses in this law, ladies and gentlemen. Speaking of Mr Kropiwnicki's next speech, he's not in the courtroom... [[I'm here, I'm here!]] Excuse me, in the Messenger's Room. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member has stated that the Minister-General of Justice will be responsible for the theft in the stalls, so, Mr... [[In the stall!]] But no, you said stealing in the stalls, so believe me, the Minister of Justice will not be dealing with the thefts in the stalls, no other politician has any intention of stealing from the stalls. On the other hand, the Attorney General of Justice, like any other prosecutor, will be accountable to the public, including you, for the pursuit of common crimes, among others. concerning the theft in stalls, which are ill for Poles living in small towns, cities, villages. This is an important problem for which the Attorney General will also be responsible, who will oversee the activities of the police authorities in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, another statement, which has been in operation here for a long time, I do not know why the Attorney General will be able to issue orders for operational and exploratory activities if this is directly related to the investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, the rule is clear: you can ask for operational and exploratory activities. Therefore, the Attorney General will only ask the police to carry out such exploratory activities, which means that the Head of that service or any other body of that service will be able to refuse such activities if he considers that they are not necessary for the investigation. Another question, which has been repeated several times here, is some hypothetical verification of prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, the review of the prosecutors was mentioned in 2009 as you attempted to amend the Public Prosecutor's Office Act. This is your prosecutor Mik, who has recently made an article in Rzeczpospolita, talking about the fact that the bill was of a verifiable nature. On the other hand, the current Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office or the draft Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, in principle the provisions introducing this Law allow flexible formulation of staff policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office in terms of shortages or support of field prosecutors by experienced and long-term prosecutors who have not conducted preparatory proceedings for many, many years but have extensive knowledge and experience of life in supervision or in the presence of a court. Such prosecutors, if necessary in district attorneys or district attorneys, should simply be used in accordance with the ethics of the prosecutor's service, because remember that the prosecutor's office or prosecutors, that this is not a prosecutor's profession, it is a prosecutor's service, ladies and gentlemen. Prosecutors are supposed to serve the public, not the other way around, ladies and gentlemen. There is no question of any verification, because no one will be discharged from duty or no one will be sent to rest. It will simply propose new conditions, a new place of business, while maintaining the existing wage conditions and maintaining the possibility of using the current service title. There's no question of any verification. Ladies and gentlemen, another answer to the next question. I don't know where this came from, but several times there's been a statement here that we're going to create six regional prosecutors. I don't know where you get it, ladies and gentlemen, but... [[From the paper.]] ...the bill clearly states in the explanatory memorandum that it is to remain the same number of regional prosecutors as the appeal attorneys, so please do not believe some mainstream media who repeat any rumors in this regard. [[Voice from the room: TVP?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that here the issue of the speech of Stalinist prosecutor Wyszynski appeared, because I hope that none of you thought that in the Polish prosecutor's office could work or work prosecutors, who at least have some connection with Mr Wyszynski's views. I understand that this is just a certain political pronunciation, not a substantive reference to certain issues. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what you are saying here, that the attorney general's office or the prosecutor's office is currently functioning in Putin Russia. This is an independent prosecutor, ladies and gentlemen, and not a subordinate, as some of you say, to the government. So, of course, it is up to you what models of law and prosecution we want to create in modern, democratic Poland. It is also worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, because here there are various issues related to the fact that we are creating some novelty related to the fact that the Attorney General will be able to issue instructions on the content of legal acts. This isn't a novel, ladies and gentlemen. In Austria, the Minister for Justice may issue orders to prosecutors as to the content of legal acts and it is unlikely that any State will question that Austria is a democratic state, so the model we are proposing is clearly acceptable and compatible with European law, as well as with declarations or statements of various types of groups operating within the European Union. On several occasions, ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a question of disabling the unlawfulness of disciplinary acts because of committing an act solely in the interests of society. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at your comments, especially since you often associate this issue with the article. 7 Law on the Prosecutor's Office, i.e. the possibility of issuing orders on the content of legal acts, and in fact the exclusion clause, this countertype is the protection of the prosecutor, so that he may evade disciplinary responsibility if he does not wish to follow the order of the superior or the prosecutor general, which would constitute a violation of law or action on the border of law. It is on the basis of this counter-attack that the prosecutor will be able to invoke and disobey this order, and will not be subject to disciplinary responsibility. Another situation - because you asked for examples - I mentioned this, recently Mrs Mik committed an article in Rzeczpospolita that directly attacked me and Minister Ziobra. In the current state of law, the Attorney General should really order disciplinary action against the prosecutor, because she appeared in the media without consent and spoke on strict issues. politically, in my opinion. But according to the proposed law, if the prosecutor acted solely in the interests of society, she would not have disciplinary action or an explanation - if her actions were solely in the interests of society. Another example, ladies and gentlemen. The National Public Prosecutor's Council adopted a code - perhaps otherwise, not a code, but principles - of prosecutor's ethics. If you read the principles of prosecutorial ethics, you will see that many provisions of these rules refer to the corporateity of prosecutorial actions or the lack of prosecutorial action. At the moment, if the prosecutor does not comply with these rules, disciplinary action may be initiated - i.e. infringement of the corporate rules and not of the general principles of society. This is another example, third. It is worth noting, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment there is a countertype that says that there is no crime committed by one whose act has little social harm. So the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code provides that there are accidents where a crime, or an act that fulfils the signs of a crime, is not a crime due to a negligible degree of social harm. In this respect, in terms of the exclusive social interest - it is worth noting that this applies only to disciplinary proceedings - no behaviour of the prosecutor that exceeds the provisions of the law becomes impunity, because the prosecutor is subject to general rules, as is any citizen of the Republic of Poland, to criminal proceedings. If he is removed from immunity and the proceedings for the waiver of immunity do not concern disciplinary action, he will be liable for the excess of powers - there is no such fear. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a great deal of emotion in your article. 12. It is worth noting that in the past five years we have dealt with situations where society has not been properly and reliably informed about various types of preparatory proceedings, which has led to many problems, including political ones. You also made comments, e.g. on the media policy of the prosecutor's office regarding the Smolensk investigation. The opposition state itself, from the Civic Platform, has expressed your opinion that policy in this area is wrong, wrong, that society does not have very important and important information that it should possess. The investigation into Amber Gold, ladies and gentlemen - it is a pity that the prosecution has not informed more about the findings, perhaps it would prevent other prohibited acts, e.g. related to financial pyramids. [[Sorry. Sorry.]] I agree, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the SKOK case. The SKOK case needs to be clarified, but first of all it needs to be explained why, for several years, despite the knowledge that various types of criminal activities are being carried out in these SKOKs, no state institutions have reacted. [[What do you mean, no?]] What did the Homeland Security do for 2, 3 or 4 years? What was CBA doing for three or four years that didn't know what was going on under Warsaw? This case must, of course, be explained how the institutions of the state did not prevent, as in the case of Amber Gold, such matters of an economic and financial nature. And among others. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are setting up regional prosecutors' offices to fight financial and fiscal crime. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to refer to some absurd fact, in my opinion, that when it comes to the time when the prosecution actually acted effectively, i.e. the years 2005-2007, when we were successful in combating corruption crime, when we were successful in eliminating various kinds of pathologies, there are allegations of the actions of the then Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobra or the impact of these actions on other public institutions. These allegations are really small in my opinion and should not be brought before the High House. Another thing, Art. 7, i.e. the possibility of issuing orders to determine legal action and the fact that these commands will be in cache files. I would like to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that the applicant, as well as the Ministry of Justice, have agreed to the amendment tabled by the Modern Members in respect of the article during the work on the laws in the subcommittee. 8 that those decisions to amend or repeal the decision of the prosecutor should be included in the main case file. On the other hand, when it comes to orders on the content of legal acts, because of the uniformity of the prosecution, they must and should be in cache files because there is no prosecutor XYZ in the court, only the prosecutor is present and represents the Republic and not himself as a person. Besides, it's the same with the court. By the way, someone here said that the concept of impeccable character is inconspicuous, so it is not known why it is in the provisions of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that this is a concept that has been in place for judges and prosecutors for many, many years. If you want to question this legal concept, I congratulate you, but I do not know how we will define those who would like to become judges or prosecutors in the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the next things related to the article. 12, it is clear that this article does not depreciate the behaviour of people who provide information. It's about information, not sharing files. Here someone from the Platform noticed that it would be possible to share the files. If someone has read this article carefully. 12, it knows it's about information, not making files available. Of course, each of those who will pass on this information in the media sphere or in the sphere of the most important persons in the country or in another person will have to have behind the head the fact that they can be held liable if they exceed their powers and act to the detriment of the social interest, as the article says. 1st Penal Code. There is therefore no concern here that there may be infringements, a breach of the law, and if such infringements occur, a breach of the law - I hope that this will never happen - there are appropriate procedures that you will also be able to use. It is here that there will be no civil liability, compensation for those who have given false or distorted information. That's not true, ladies and gentlemen, because art. 12 says that these people have been responsible on the principles of the Labour Code for years. No one's ever questioned that before. No change has been made here. Another thing. I wanted to express my surprise, ladies and gentlemen, because that is what you say about this independent prosecutor's office, independent government or any independent political authority, and then I hear you say, I don't want to lie, I think, from the opposition, who says that her questions and opinions on this new law have been consulted with the prosecutors of Poznań. On what grounds? On what grounds, Commissioner? Well, the D.A.'s office is independent and the D.A. is independent. On what legal basis did the prosecutors give you information? That's the bill, ladies and gentlemen. That's the bill. [[Consulting the bill is different.]] But this is an independent D.A.'s office. What do you mean? Politicians were consulted? [[The Attorney General can't be either? And in the subcommittee, who was it?]] Ladies and gentlemen, after all, you have passed this law, you know what it says. [[It's okay to consult.]] Then tell me on what legal basis. [[How does the subcommittee work? Under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I encourage you to read.]] No, no, on what basis? Acting Attorney General. Ladies and gentlemen! The last question you have asked is a very important question in the context of a number of other questions. What does it look like at the moment, and is the prosecution's supervision of surgical and cognitive activities? Of course it is. The State itself from the Civic Platform introduced this supervision by the rule and regulation of the Minister of Justice. The word "supervised" means more than "control" that we are talking about in our law. At the moment, the prosecutor has the power to perform the operational and cognitive functions indicated in the regulation much greater, in my opinion, than those which are in the new law on the prosecutor's office. On the other hand, in the new law on the prosecutor's office, in this project we allow real control over these activities, i.e. not based only on information that is intended to be provided by the special service, but only on documents. And there will be no way that any documents or information will be hidden from the prosecutor if he decides to consent to operational control or to a special operation, which could happen under the current law. So this is a change as necessary and justified as possible. With regard to the possibility of amending or abolishing the clause, ladies and gentlemen, this is a need arising from the immediate problems that have occurred recently, inter alia. with the dispute between Mr Wojtunik's former Head of CBA and the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw on the issue of abolishing or amending the document clause. These powers of the Attorney General are subject to such conditions that, in fact, the amendment or termination of the clause can take place in extraordinarily situations, in fact only for the purposes of the preparatory procedure, it is worth noting, not for purposes other than the preparatory procedure. I hope, of course, that this will be a dead order, that there will not be such a situation that the chief of staff of one or the other will refuse the prosecutor in charge to abolish the clause. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there are other things I can tell you that I have been interrogated twice during the so-called work. the pressure committee and I could not provide you with information on the issues relevant to the work of this committee, because twice at that time the head of ABW Bondaryk refused to give me the waiver of state secrecy and I could not inform you of very important issues, which were then important for the security of the state. So this example is also important in this respect. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I understand your questions to a large extent, I understand some concerns, and this law was prepared by the applicants with the support of the Minister, the Ministry of Justice, in a professional, competent way and creates a new quality in terms of the activity of the Polish prosecutor's office, and allows, as I say, flexible and rational actions, including in the field of staff. Several dozen prosecutors in custody have reached retirement age and can retire, that's their right. We cannot in the prosecutor's office, if the formal conditions are already fulfilled, keep no one in the service force, but because there is a new head of the school of judges and prosecutors, I hope that we will soon have a new generation of new, professionally prepared judges, judges, prosecutors, prosecutors, and we will be able to carry out actions effectively, ensuring the security of the Member State of the opposition and preventing the activities of criminals, especially those in white collars, who, in my opinion, have contributed enormously to the budgetary problems of our country as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u278	Thank you. Mr Kropiwnicki submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Minister, I think I've been misunderstood. The point of my statement is that you will now be responsible for the state of all prosecutions in the prosecutor's office, also for preparatory proceedings in the smallest cases, from Szczecin to Przemyśl, from Suwałk to Karpacz and Zgorzelec. Everything will be under the responsibility of the Attorney General of the Minister of Justice, which means everyone who is dissatisfied will have the full right to turn to the Minister of Justice now to intervene in their personal affairs. And this is one of the major systemic errors, because the Minister of Justice, wanting to treat the writings that will affect him fairly, will be asking for files, for supervision of these proceedings, and there will be one big mess, which will make it even more difficult for all these prosecutors to work actually, regionally in particular. I'm also asking if there's any reason for you to exchange District Attorneys and District Attorneys. Because please see that okay, you exchange appeals for regionals and there you want to change bosses, but you don't change regionals, you don't change district bosses, and you name bosses to appoint your officers, who without a term of office, without any external responsibility, will only actually answer to the minister. The standard of independence is currently in force, which is the standard of independence of prosecutors in Europe, because politicians should be politically accountable, i.e. having political responsibility, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and prosecutors should have, they must have legal and substantive responsibility. And last sentence only. Minister, you have talked about many proceedings during our governments, about which you have doubts as to whether they were independent. Well, I am fully convinced that they were independent. [[Voice from the room: But the corrigendum...]] And I recall the fact that Minister Lipc was arrested...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u280	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u281	...whose withdrawal was definitely political. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u282	This has nothing to do with the correction. Thank you kindly, sir. It is also being corrected by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, but you have not been mentioned by the Minister by name. [[But he quoted my statement.]] But, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, if your name has not been mentioned, I do not see the basis for the rules of procedure to give you the floor. Please, the representative of the applicants of Mr Michael Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u283	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At first, Mr. Marshal, I'm handing over the law and justice of the amendment on behalf of the club. I would like to refer to some of the issues that have been raised here, and I have been asked to respond. However, at the beginning I will refer, if I may, to what Mr Kropiwnicki said. Mr President, who is responsible for security in Poland? Well, you know perfectly well. [[Government.]] The government, you just answered yourself. Constitution in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the [[Police.]] So, in fact, the person who is headed by the prosecutor's office, the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, of course, will have the right to choose the person, to really shape the picture of the prosecutor's office. [[But the D.A.'s office...]] Because you're gonna account for the Minister of Justice next year, and we're giving you the opportunity. So if he didn't have these instruments and tools, how would he provide security for citizens as a constitutional minister? It's logical, I think. [[The prosecutor's office is not the administration department.]] [[Well, it's gonna happen.]] And now I answer one at a time, only from the back maybe, unlike Minister Święczkowski. Mrs Schmidt, I wanted to answer at the beginning. The Member asked what decided to merge the offices. It just decided, first of all, that there were doubts... [[Simple language, straight.]] I answer straight, I try to answer straight. It has decided that we really want to protect citizens, among others. Against the challenges we face today, which the prosecutor's office in the 1980s, when the law on the prosecutor's office was created, regardless of the fact that there were almost 50 amendments, has never stood. Because look around you, what happens, how dynamic the world is. There's terrorism, tell me who's supposed to fight terrorism today. At what level, at what level is the prosecution fighting? That's the question today. And a lot of things, a lot of the instruments that are in this bill, are instruments that are set either for this or for what he was talking about, among other things. Minister Święczkowski, or organized crime, corruption, a giant corruption that eats us all. So, what level are you fighting at? At central level, you should fight. After all, this has been brought down below, and it is every minister of justice who knows perfectly well. In my opinion, it was a mistake. We return to what worked for years in Poland and worked well. Is the prosecutor's office good, a prosecutor's office is good, in which almost 100% Prosecutors, 99.5% To my knowledge, these are district attorneys who handle cases that go to the D.A.'s office? Is this a really well-functioning D.A.'s office? I've already calculated here at first reading how many cases there are for a prosecutor in the district attorney's office, district and appeal. You can read it from the transcript, and you might agree with what I'm saying, that it was just a pathology that you had to fight. Mrs Skowrońska spoke about these six regional prosecutors, she is no longer in the Chamber. Indeed, such a statement appeared in one of the media. I think that Minister Święczkowski has already explained this, but when it comes to the parliamentary project, it is also an accessible way, it is in accordance with the rules, according to the law, we do not violate any provision. But remember one more thing, I said it in my first reading. We have an emergency situation. After all, Mr. Attorney General Seremet is about to end his term of office. If the President chooses a new Attorney General, and in seven months' time... [[It's not gonna swear him in.]] ...we're gonna proceed with this bill, so what are we gonna do right now? What are you gonna talk about in seven months? That we're dishonest. Well, it's obvious. The project is refined, the project is good. There are tools that we've been talking about for many years. And one more thing I want to say is that, in fact, if all of this were to be collected, what the opposition presented today on this platform, squeeze out, there would still be a few things left to discuss. Why? Because many things in the law about the D.A.'s office are duplication or improvement of what's in the D.A.'s law. In fact, new instruments are coming along, the structure is changing, but none of you are... [[In the evil PRL. The bad one.]] In the Polish People's Republic, it was so, Mr. President, that the Attorney General was separate and the Minister of Justice separately, and in the Second Republic it was so that it was together. And then, after the round table, it was also together for 20 years, and then you made an amendment that changed it. [[But there was a prosecutor in the Second Republic of Poland, wasn't there?]] Of course, because the D.A.'s office... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ...was differently placed, and with executive authority, and with judicial authority. Anyone who knows a little bit of history knows that. But it's hard to question that the Chief Prosecutor was the Minister of Justice. Well, he was just. That's our tradition. As far as Mrs Kaminska is concerned, she asked why a politician should be a prosecutor general. Because that was our promise, among others. to voters - each of our voters knows about it - but also to make the prosecution more efficient. Referring to what I said at the beginning, to what is written in the Constitution, I am convinced that the Attorney General should lead the prosecution. It has a special status. That is why we discussed during the work of the subcommittee and during the work of the committee what the status of the prosecutor general is, in fact, that he is not a prosecutor of the general organizational units of the prosecutor's office. It has a special status. Many of the questions raised here were about why the Attorney General had a special status. This, of course, has different consequences, and I don't want to present it here. On the other hand, as far as Mrs Kaminska is concerned, she is talking about sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, reminding him, I am the Member who sent him back to 2009 when he was asleep. President Lech Kaczyński vetoed this amendment. It was he who wrote in the veto's explanatory memorandum why this was to be the case, why the Attorney General's office was to be connected to the Minister of Justice's office, and what would happen if they were separated. If you look at the reasons, I think you will understand what is going on. As regards the statement made by Mrs Monica Rosa, there is, of course, no personnel verification. And as for those 100 people that the prosecution is writing about - I do not know if there are actually 80, 100 or 120 of them - I just want to say one thing that Mr Jacek Skala, the prosecutor, the head of the Trade Union of Prosecutors and Employees of the Polish Public Prosecutor's Office explained it best. Well, he's been explaining it in the last few days. Let's not make any sensation out of it, it's like the Minister said, it's a pension case, that's once. And two, if we're gonna do it, and you're gonna do it, and you're gonna make a big deal out of it, let's remember it's at $6,000. or more than 6,000. from 1,5% up to 2% Prosecutors. You say, and some media give such information that it's gonna be a paralysis of the D.A.'s office. Let's be serious. Internal Affairs cases. I think the Member asked from the speaker how many such cases there were. There have been few such cases, but even for one case it is worth creating such Internal Affairs, because if we are to rebuild trust in the prosecution, we will never do so if the environment itself is not clean. And that's the truth. We give many things to this environment in this bill, but we also look at many things. Hence, among others. disclosure of claims of property, disclosure of disciplinary action is provided for. Why should prosecutors be assured of secret proceedings? These are pretty important things. But the environment needs to be clean. These are particularly shocking cases when corruption occurs among judges or prosecutors or even assessors. It's hard to question that kind of thing. Next, there's a matter of orders from the district attorney's superior prosecutor to a subordinate. Why does it end up in the manual? And why should it go to the main file? Well, I'm sorry, let's see what the logic of this is. If it's... [[So the citizens would know.]] ...in the main files - aside from the argument made by the Minister - it is going to be played by the D.A.'s office. Think about it. The parties will find out that the D.A. gave the order and the game... [[And that's a secret?]] ... Then the D.A.'s office. Mr Święczkowski, the logic dictates that, apart from what Minister Bogdan Święczkowski was talking about, the prosecution should also be protected. Come on, let's not go that far. The next issue is the charge of the National Public Prosecutor's Council, which has decided to give its opinion. I don't blame the National Public Prosecutor's Office for giving that opinion because we're eliminating it. But we're creating what? National Attorney's Council for all levels of the DA's office. There's even gonna be... [[It's for decoration.]] ...represented the level of the district attorney's office. And who's on the National Public Prosecutor's Office? There are, among others. Seven politicians or seven politicians. Four representatives have the Sejm, two Senate, and there is one representative of the President. He could be a politician, too. Maybe... [[Of course.]] ...but he doesn't have to, does he? We're talking about politicising the D.A.'s office because it's headed by the Minister of Justice, and you're saying it was depoliticized? Well, that's enough... [[But you're confusing ideas.]] ...look at the powers of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I don't mix concepts. [[You're confusing ideas, absolutely.]] Look at the powers of the National Public Prosecutor's Council, sir. He's got a lot of competence. [[It's different from the D.A.'s office. It's different from the D.A.'s.]] I told you that on the committee. After all, he knows very well that this is the second centre of power in the prosecutor's office. I don't know if the National Public Prosecutor's Council has more power than the Attorney General. [[I'm sure there isn't.]] See her competence. Sir, in particular 23 different tasks are mentioned. It's not normal. [[Well, then I'm explaining to you that he doesn't have much of a competence.]] I don't want to develop this subject. You ask a question tomorrow, I'll answer it. It's a matter of... [[No power.]] ...public hearing - Mrs Gajewska. Why didn't you invite me? You don't want to talk to us. I thanked you, today thank you and I will also thank the opposition representatives tomorrow in the special subcommittee and in the committee. Well, we've been working for almost 30 hours, really. Some of the amendments, and I don't think any of you will question it, have been accepted by us. No fundamental, because it's hard for us to accept your amendment that there won't be a national prosecutor. Because we want the State's Attorney's Office. [[The ones where we caught your mistakes are obvious.]] On the other hand, it is a pity that I was not invited, or the Minister, that we could talk to you and explain it to you. As the honourable Member has said here, tell the prosecutors who had doubts as to whether the people who appeared here. Incidentally, there is a record concerning prosecutors that they cannot conduct political activity, and here I actually agree with Minister Bogdan Święczkowski that the question of this consultation is a matter that is, let's say, delicate. [[Lenin said even soup is political.]] The issue, ladies and gentlemen, is responsibility for the transfer of counter-attack, which is this social interest. By tomorrow night, by tonight, I don't know, I think tomorrow we'll be voting on these two projects, you can read a rich case law on the social interest. Ladies and gentlemen, the social interest, the public interest, there are a lot of articles about it, good case law. As a home assignment, I ask where there is a social or socially legitimate interest in criminal law. Penal Code, see the Code of Criminal Procedure. You can also see the case law, which is for this. You have doubts about this, I do not. On the other hand, when it comes to this countertype, the Minister explained it quite precisely. This is actually a question of e.g. failure by the prosecutor, orders of the prosecutor's superior by the district attorney. Well, not following orders, he's actually insulting the rules, breaking the rules. And what does that mean? Disciplinary action from the vending machine, isn't it? [[No, he can object, can't he?]] If he doesn't, there's disciplinary action from the vending machine. [[But I suppose he can object, according to the bill?]] The next case is a matter concerning the independence of the D.A.'s office. Ladies and gentlemen, is the D.A.'s office really independent today? [[Yes.]] Look at the provisions of the D.A.'s Attorney's Office Act. Mr Kropiwnicki, as I respect you, see how many laws there are, what the Minister of Justice can do. Even a seat can make areas of property by way of a regulation, right? And why can't the Attorney General do that? And why does the Attorney General have to run to the President of the Council of Ministers and report back? And what does the Chairman of the Council of Ministers do? Accepts or rejects. And if he rejects it, what does he do? He can direct it here to our O.R. So? Qualified majority, two-thirds, and no U.S. Attorney General. And what he did, among others. Prime Minister? He kept the Attorney General in doubt for months, and therefore 6,000. Prosecutors. This is an independent D.A.'s office? There's no independent D.A.'s office in the same issue as you say. You can say a little more about independence, but we've talked a lot in committee, and it's late and I don't want to prolong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u284	Thank you, sir. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Ast, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are very few questions for the rapporteur. Mr Szłapka asked an ironic question, but it is important, because in this question there was also a thesis that questioned the constitutionality of the provisions of the draft law on the prosecution. I would therefore like to remind you that the committee also benefited from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and it was very clear from this opinion that this fundamental area of change, which included the draft law on the prosecutor's office, is absolutely not contrary to the constitution, is not, in particular, covered by the Constitution, as regards the merger of the function of prosecutor general with the function of minister of justice. Of course, during the committee's work on the side-rules, there were questions or doubts about constitutionality. They didn't have any effect on this fundamental area that the bill was dealing with. So that I can answer directly that, of course, we are not afraid in this case, also on behalf of the Sejm, because it is the Sejm that will defend the constitutionality of the provisions of the law, the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. I would also like to reply to Mr Gryglas, because Mr Gryglas said that Law and Justice deceived voters because it did not mention in the programme that he would join the positions of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice. Well, ladies and gentlemen, from the first day that an amendment to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office was adopted, Law and Justice said that if he won the elections, he would combine these two important for the functioning of the State's offices. And that's what happens. I am saying this as a rapporteur who has knowledge of this, so that you can have a look at the Law and Justice programme. I would like to thank you very warmly for this debate today and, above all, on the committee, because here two visions of the functioning or system of the prosecutor's office have come to an end. Two completely separate visions, where it is difficult to find an agreement and difficult - because the opposition was also in a difficult situation - to make substantive amendments to a coherent legal act and to a coherent concept. So today, and above all during the work of the subcommittee and committee, the discussion was indeed long and rather substantive. So that here, both on the side of the governing coalition and the opposition, there was the will to quickly complete the work, as quickly as possible, there was no action to prolong or block the work of the committee. Thank you for that, too. Of course, special thanks also to the legislators who supported us during the legislative process and for all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u286	Thank you, sir. Mr Kropiwnicki came forward as corrected, but... [[Robert.]] I'm sorry, Robert. [[I'm Robert.]] Robert, Mr. Robert. But as far as I have heard Mr Michał Wójcik well, he was merely expressing his great respect for the Member. [[He was talking to me.]] [[He said: Mr Kropiwnicki.]] That's right, he assured me of high respect. [[Briefly.]] Of course, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u287	Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! Well, the moment you were talking about the need to talk to the opposition, I totally agreed with you, but you didn't want a public hearing. At the beginning of the committee's work, we applied for an official hearing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You refused, you didn't want to. Therefore, the Platform Club organised a hearing for stakeholders. Unfortunately, this project has been very widely criticised, very strongly precisely because it spoils independence. I agree with Mr Ast that these are two completely different visions. Except we really think the D.A.'s independence is standard. Mr Wójcik often refers to the Second Republic. In the Second Republic of Poland, prosecutors were more in the judicial system, in fact in the courts, not in the ministers, they were judicial prosecutors, not in the politicians. This is a very bad practice, and you want to introduce it. It is our duty to respect the public opinion, the Poles before this solution, which you want to introduce, according to which the Attorney General, the National Attorney, will be conducting almost a regional investigation, in the District Attorney's Office. This is harmful, it is also dangerous for human rights and, above all, for the rule of law, which we discussed so much at the committee meeting. So that's not a good solution. That independence you were just talking about was. Each prosecutor had independence and was the independence of the prosecutor's office. There was a connection to the Ministry of Justice, but there was no situation that the national prosecutor could have given orders to prosecutors or that the Attorney General could have removed the secret clause. It's not in any system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nowhere. There's no breach that the Attorney General can draw off a secret clause given by the President or the Prime Minister. This is a breach in the classified information protection system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u288	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. As amendments were tabled at the second reading of both draft laws, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats (Print No 189). I would like to present the justification for the bill of the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u289	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Diagnosis of the problem. I took the liberty, High Izbo, to bring only a few press articles from the last time, which, in their title, show how serious social matter we are dealing with. High Izbo, here are a few: The criminal pedophile molested children, raped children, the rapist came out of prison and attacked again, the convicted pedophile still works with children, got out of prison for surgery, raped. The case under the scrutiny of the ministry, a multi-year-old paedophile recaptured, a criminal pedophile spent 3 months in custody in Grudziądz, went out and raped again, suspected of rape of an 11-year-old in custody. He's out of prison, raped a 2-year-old daughter. This tragedy could be avoided, the pedophile came out of prison and raped the boy. High Izbo, that's the kind of information we have. When we check social activity and information from the police, an average child molester is caught every other day. We have to ask ourselves, High Izbo, how many such harm must still happen, so that we may be tempted to reflect on the fact that something needs to be changed in the Polish country, all the more so that the state's activities so far have failed. Previous activity of the reactive state, i.e. Catch a criminal and put him in jail, he doesn't take the test. In times 2.0, 3.0, as we commonly call it, in times of universal access to the Internet, a new state functionality is needed, a state functionality of a preventive nature. That is why we want, High Izbo, to propose, once again, a pedophile register that will allow citizens wide access to information about threats that will allow parents to better protect their children. High Izbo, at the same time as this register, we propose to create a police threat map that will undoubtedly improve the safety of our children. High Izbo, parents have a right to know. They have the right to know when a new neighbor is introduced, appears in their local community and starts to be interested in children, gives them candy. Parents then have the right to know if it is a case of a person who was once convicted of paedophile crimes, e.g. with special cruelty. Parents are entitled to such knowledge. Since parents in many countries, e.g. in the UK, in France, they have the right to such knowledge, in the United States, in Canada, why Polish parents did not have such a right, had no right to that knowledge? This is how they are able to defend their children more effectively. High Seym! We propose two types of registers: a register of paedophiles for minor sex crimes, which will be accessible to public institutions, and a register of paedophiles, which will already be available to all citizens and where there will be people convicted of paedophile crimes with particular cruelty and those who acted in redecisive, such as do not give any hope of improvement. Access to such knowledge in our assessment should be universal. High Izbo! As far as the conclusions are concerned, I would like to inform the High House that, as promised, today we are preparing such a register and at the same time declaring: the Polish state is no longer acting theoretically. Well, High Izbo, concern and empathy yes, but towards children, not towards pedophiles. It has been too often in this House, because it is not the first time we have submitted this project, too often in the High House we have heard in those terms that poor paedophiles will be sentenced to lynching as we will create such a register. What about the protection of personal data, what about the general inspection of personal data protection? No, no more thinking like that, High Izbo. It is high time the High House won the primacy of child safety over the primacy of a degenerate or a rapist. It's about time I said it. Therefore, High Sejm, it is very important for us to protect our children. Actions, not words, hence the record of pedophiles and we hope for a quick adoption. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u290	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Wassermann to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats along with draft implementing acts. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice believes that sexual crime is an extremely important problem that requires a firm and decisive response from law enforcement authorities. The risk of returning to this category of offenders is high and therefore there is a need to create mechanisms for controlling these perpetrators once they have completed their targeted penalties. The proposed law introduces new measures to protect society from this type of crime. It is common knowledge that sexual crimes have irreversible effects both in the physical sphere but, above all, in the mental victim's sphere. Hence, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposed regulations. The purpose of the Act is to introduce a register of sex offenders, to introduce an obligation for employers and other organisers in the field of education, education, treatment and care of minors, to identify places of particular danger. The register kept by the Minister of Justice in electronic form is primarily intended to perform a protective and warning role for the public. On the other hand, it will be an additional ailment for the perpetrators. The register will consist of two separate databases: a register with limited access - here the entities authorised to obtain information about the convicted persons whose data are collected in the register will be the courts, law enforcement authorities, governmental and local authorities to the extent necessary for the performance of their tasks, and a public register - the access to this register will be universal, including data on the perpetrators of rape offences with particular cruelty to the detriment of a minor under the age of 15 and the perpetrators of the most serious crimes described in Chapter XXV of the Penal Code, who committed them under the conditions of primary recidivism and multi-rdecision. As a good solution, we consider that the projector envisaged a situation in which the court deciding a specific case might consider that it would not be advisable to publish the data of the perpetrator in the register, whether for reasons attributable to the victim or the perpetrator. One of the most desirable effects of the Act will be the continuous monitoring of the whereabouts of those convicted for these most serious crimes. The project involves the creation and conduct of a threat map by the police, i.e. the list of particularly dangerous places. This is a good step towards protecting society, but also to raise awareness of the risks surrounding it and to involve the local community in safety management processes. In order to protect children from contact with sex offenders, the proposed law imposes an obligation on employers and other entities involved in the upbringing, education or care of minors to obtain information from the register as to whether the applicant for the post is not present. Sexual crimes are a unique group of crimes. They are characterized by particularly severe consequences for victims, unfortunately often children. In an age of free movement and unlimited Internet access, law enforcement authorities need new tools to combat and prevent this type of crime. The Constitution and international agreements, which Poland is party to, guarantee the right to protect private life, but on the other hand, impose an obligation on the State to ensure the security of its citizens. The detailed rules of the project indicate that restricting the right to privacy of those convicted of the most serious sex crimes is justified, proportionate and necessary to protect the security, public order and the freedoms and rights of citizens. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u292	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Michael Szczerba to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u293	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! High sexual crime is a serious social problem. It's a great tragedy for minors victims of crimes, especially those of a sexual nature. This social problem, this great tragedy of minors victims, has often been noticed by the legislator, making a number of legislative changes on this issue over the last 10 years. I will briefly talk about them, but I would also like to say that the perpetrators are increasingly using the latest technology as a tool against children and also the current system for detecting and combating sexual crime is not perfect and it is always worth discussing, it should always be improved. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will be in favour of working on this government project in committee. It is very often the case that, by using the gaps in the law enforcement system, the perpetrators are able to effectively, including using highly developed technology, to abuse children and, of course, because of the subject of such proceedings, we see the need to create a new, perhaps better, and above all a better system to combat sexual crime in a special way that protects the rights and welfare of the youngest. But what is the most important thing in all of this? The most important thing is that these proposals, so that these legislative changes, which we will continue to do, because this is the next step in increasing the protection of the youngest, must be of a real nature, not of an image character, not of a facade character. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these changes must be in line with the Constitution and with international agreements. This, too, should be remembered, because I will only remind you that the draft law, which today presents the government, has already been the subject of the work of the Sejm in previous terms, we have the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office, which in some respects state that it may be incompatible with the Constitution. However, I will remind you what has been done so far - this is absolutely important and it is worth remembering that - already in 2004 an amendment to the Penal Code Act, the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and the Code of Offences Act, which covered certain sexual offences, was the first such amendment to the 1997 Penal Code in this respect. In 2005, we amended the Penal Code Act, the Penal Procedure Code Act and the Enforcement Code Act, which tightened up the responsibility for the crime of rape and sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 15, but also introduced new types of offences involving acts committed against a minor. In addition, the amendment introduced new criminal measures to prohibit the pursuit of activities related to the education, treatment, education or care of minors and the obligation to refrain from staying in certain places, the prohibition of contact with certain persons or the prohibition of leaving a particular place of residence without the consent of the court. 2008 is another amendment which implemented the Council Framework Decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography into the Polish legal system, extended the limitation period for certain sexual offences and introduced a new type of criminal offence involving the criminalisation of the so-called. virtual child pornography. Two new types of criminal offences were added in the following year: the crime of grooming and the crime of promoting pedophilia. The above law also introduced a new type of protective measure in the form of a prison sentence without conditional suspension for crimes against sexual liberty committed in connection with sexual preference disorders for outpatient treatment in order to conduct pharmacological therapy or psychotherapy, which will seek to prevent such a crime from being committed again. Finally, 2013 is an amendment whose main purpose was to refrain from the proposed procedure for the prosecution of rape offences. I 2014 - extension of the limitation period for the criminality of sexual offences against children. High Izbo! We're at a certain stage of work. We want to continue this work. Some solutions that [[♪ The bell ♪]] proposes the government, seem controversial, also in terms of compliance with the constitution, but the child's welfare is the most important thing and this challenge we are taking, we will work on this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u294	Thank you very much and I would like to ask you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The extent to which previous governments react to the most serious phenomena associated with modern crime can be assessed as highly inadequate. It would not be very risky to say that the Civic Platform government, if it has already taken any action in the area of broader criminal law, has applied solutions to develop guarantees for people who are in conflict with the law. There are provisions for reducing limitation periods, which are in fact a great bow towards the criminal world, or the unfortunate July novel of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was intended to kill the State - the Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office - procedural instruments in the fight against crime, making suspects and accused persons of privileged standing. I no longer mention what happened 25 years ago when lex Trynkiewicz was passed, abolishing the death penalty, not introducing life imprisonment. It was done with the hands of professors who today have authority. None of them have ever been held responsible, not even morally. The initiatives I mention have been complemented by an 8-year band of omissions in the fight against crime. As a person working at the time in the prosecutor's office, I know very well the phenomenon of the gradually disappearing motivational factor in the fight against crime at that time. During this period, no one has noticed how much crime is changing, that it is becoming a cross-border phenomenon, that a large part of the illegal acts is committed by means of a network, that the network serves criminals at least to take the first step. No one has noticed any change in the structure of sexual crime, including the most dangerous one, because it's aimed at children. No one could see how dangerous the phenomenon of return to crime is in this area. No one has noticed the lack of a strong legal response from the State to these threats. We were fascinated by the American process by introducing an unparalleled instrumentarium, including a legal instrument, into courtrooms contrary to the continental tradition, but at the same time we did not notice that law enforcement authorities in the United States had an incomparable instrumentarium. It is in the United States that there is a system of broad social control built up by appropriate legal instruments that promotes the fight against sexual crime, including child-related crime. This model operates successfully in other countries of the common law system - Canada, the UK, Australia, as well as in continental Europe, specifically the French Republic. The legal model of the response to child sexual crime is based on registers covering, among others. people referred to as pedophiles. The Kukiz Club15 strongly supports the creation of such a register, in particular that it will be a public register and thus enable the public to respond adequately to existing threats. It does not matter in this case the guarantee function of criminal law. While the best conditions for combating crime create a legal balance between security and security functions, in the case of the most dangerous types of crime, the state must give a strong priority to the protection function, which places emphasis on the protection of victims' rights and prevention. Please keep that in mind when you hear voices so-called. defenders of freedom and human rights. For us, victims' rights will always be more important than extended legal guarantees for those committing crimes. Saying this, I do not regret that Kukiz15 will not have such high ratings among criminal circles. Let the criminals vote for the ones they always vote for. We are in favour of the bill and the rapid introduction of the register. However, in the course of the legislative work, we will make amendments that will ensure the effectiveness of the new solutions and protect against the use of this law for purposes incompatible with its idea. This law must not replace other necessary measures of the State, which should include therapy and other preventive action. Ladies and gentlemen, zero tolerance for criminals, zero tolerance for pedophilia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u296	Thank you very much. I would like to speak on behalf of the Club, the Modern Mrs Joanna Schmidt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am the mother of three young children, and I am not indifferent to the subject of combating evil, which is certainly pedophilia. With limited time, I will no longer go into the details of this tragedy, because it was perfectly presented by Mrs Wassermann. I'll introduce the position of the Modern Club right away. All effective action is undoubtedly simply necessary, but today we are talking about another law, which will be merely an appearance of action. This law is merely powdering the problem. The PiS won't increase our sense of security. My children and your children will not be safer thanks to this law, and I myself, along with millions of mothers, can at best live in even greater fear. I would like to say from this point of view that we appreciate your good intentions, but instead of looking for effective solutions, you decide for solutions that have not worked out in other countries, have failed the exam. Magical and wishful thinking will not replace wisdom. Let us not lose, please, another few years to verify the effectiveness, the effects of the act. The project is called for, among others. on the French register, but you ignore that in France, however, there is no public access to the data of the perpetrators of such crimes. We can probably rely on the experience of the United States. For several years, such a register has been publicly available, but there have already been studies of experts that have had the result. The stigmatized, the most dangerous criminals become hunters and change their place of residence, are not identified, are not recognized or controlled, live on the outskirts, and are in completely different areas, threatening the lives of minors. The authors of the bill had two goals: prevention and stigmatization of sex offenders. However, experience shows that only one of these paths, just prevention, but related to therapy, with continuous monitoring of these criminals, can result in a reduction in the amount of sexual crimes committed. You offer two types of registers: limited access and accessible to the public. A public register, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad idea. For what is it that tells me that a paedophile lives in my neighborhood? What can I do with that information? I can certainly feel fear, but nothing more. I'm not gonna call the police, because the police know where this criminal lives, at least they should know about his current place of residence. Or is PiS about to sanction the public lynching? I'll do it again. The Minister may criticize this wording, but it is the State that is from guaranteeing security and the rule of law in the State, not from imposing this obligation on society. Aren't you also afraid of ordinary human errors - confused photos, names or addresses? Now the court, I remind you, if it considers it appropriate, may make the judgment public. When preparing the bill, PiS did not consult with experts dealing with sexual crime problems. I have a resolution in my hand, and I'd be happy to pass it on. The Polish Sex Society did not leave a dry thread on your project. If at least you've studied the pedophilia problem to a minimum, you probably know that the pedophile crime is 80%. They're in families. By publicising criminal records, you're simultaneously publishing their victims' records. A general register is a simple way to create fear, aggression on the part of parents, while losing control of paedophiles, but above all the huge risk of harming the victim again by identifying her and her place of residence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u298	Thank you very much. And to speak, also on behalf of the Modern Club, Mr Mirosław Suchon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u299	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm looking at time, it'll be quick. There is nothing to discuss, the issue is very important, but it also requires a very substantive, calm, analytical approach to this subject. We have the impression that this has been done a little bit for the show, so with the voice of experts and citizens here, we want to help the government and, although in part, improve this law, so that it really does fulfil the role that the applicants have, and it was not just a PR action that would end up being passed and nothing else. I would therefore like to make a very brief comment on some of the modern proposals that we will want to put forward during the process on this law. First of all, however, we believe that the police and other services are called in the first place to ensure security, and therefore we will ask that this register, which is to be created, be an element that the police and other services, as well as the municipal or municipal guards, will take into account in the course of the analysis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] preventive measures. Your marshal, if you don't mind, literally 30 seconds. We will want to implement such a solution so that there is a new monitoring programme for those convicted of such crimes, so that they can be monitored, treated. We believe that this must be a coherent programme, consistent with the provisions of this law, so that it works. The solutions tested around the world tell us that only such a comprehensive solution to this topic can have a positive effect. Of course - without overestimating your Marshal's patience - I will say that we will have a lot of amendments that I would like to talk about during the committee meeting. In our view, in order for this project to have a chance to change something, improve the level of security, we need to have a very broad, in-depth discussion on this subject, which is why on behalf of the Members' Club I propose that this project be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u300	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the draft law on the prevention of the dangers of sexual crime, which is in print no. 189. The Minister presented a very visual diagnosis of the problem. In fact, every once in a while the public in our country is moved by reports of a very shocking character, showing the harm of children caused by criminals who are doing sexual acts. It is only in this way, Minister, that I very much wonder whether the content of this project corresponds fully to the need, because in the title of the law, the government nicely outlined the spectrum of actions that should come up against the problem, while reading into the content of this draft law, it is possible to get the impression that this content does not fully correspond to the title. In fact, the current legal situation lacks sufficient resources to enable the perpetrators of sex crimes to be effectively controlled and thus effectively separated from potential victims. According to the project records, two registers will be created in which information will be collected on persons who have already had a conflict with the law in respect of those offences. This is the only place where I will appeal whether I will replicate the statements made by the previous speakers, which clearly indicate that the achievements of other European countries in combating sexual crime shows one thing that the tool you are proposing, namely the registration of these criminals, as an essential tool to combat the escalation of this crime is insufficient. Prof. Zbigniew Lew-Starowicz, the authority to investigate all these adverse phenomena, including sexual crime, also expressed a similar tone. I do not know, Minister, whether you have considered, when designing this project, to take advantage of the many experiences of countries and Europeans and others, which today place a very strong emphasis on the electronic monitoring of these people, step by step, looking at their hands, watching where they are moving, breaking certain obligations when it comes to getting off this criminal path, in the case of a lighter form of these crimes. Undoubtedly, the solution proposed by the law is to impose an obligation on employers and organisers of activities related to the education, education and treatment of children to verify that the employed are not included in this register. This is one of the better postulates of this project. But it is also worth considering whether or not to introduce additional tools that will ensure the effective implementation of these procedures, so that it is not so that in crèches, kindergartens, schools it will be treated as an additional, unnecessary obligation imposed on these institutions. The poorness of the solutions contained in the project against the background of European laws, I think, should not cross the project, hence the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of passing it on to further work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, we also want to take an active part in them and may be looking for additional instruments to enrich the catalogue of these instruments at the process stage, as I said earlier, affecting the separation of offenders who commit paedophiles or others from society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u302	Thank you very much. Nine people were included in the list of Members of the task. I don't see anyone else willing, so I'm closing the list. But before we start asking questions, you asked for the floor of the child's spokesperson Marek Michalak. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u303	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child vis-à-vis the government's draft law on the prevention of sexual crime, contained in print No 189. Sexual abuse against children is a category of crimes of a particularly cruel and severe nature. The rights of minors in this area must be protected and protected in a special way. In the Republic of Poland, children are under special protection. This guarantees the provision of the Article. 72. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, indicating the protection of the rights of the child as a duty of the State, as well as the right of everyone to demand from public authorities the protection of the child against violence, cruelty, exploitation and demoralisation. The Convention on the Rights of the Child also requires States Parties to adequately safeguard the right of the child to live and to protect health. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 34 States which are parties to the Convention undertake to protect children from all forms of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse and to take all appropriate steps to prevent the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children. The Republic of Poland ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, drawn up in Lanzarote on 25 October 2007, which is one of the most important international instruments guaranteeing the fight against all forms of sexual violence against children, including abuses committed using new technologies. The ratification of the Convention since 2008 has been repeatedly advocated by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The right of children to special care and assistance is also guaranteed by other international documents, in particular those implemented in our legal order: Directive 2011/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims and Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. The phenomenon of child sexual abuse is a serious social problem with an international dimension. Children are particularly vulnerable to becoming victims of crimes against sexual freedom. According to the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child in Poland every fifth girl (i.e. approx. 20%) and every 15th boy (approx. 6% ) under 15 years of age are experiencing some form of sexual abuse. The perpetrators of child crimes are both outsiders for the child and known to the child - family members, neighbors. Sexual violence against children affects all groups of society, not just families called so-called. pathological families. Among the perpetrators of sexual crimes against children are also the so-called ones. Respected citizens. Sexual abuse is a very traumatic experience for the child and entails many negative consequences that interfere with the normal course of psychosocial development of children. Sexual crimes to harm children are a lot, a lot, and every single one is too much. The Ombudsman welcomes the legislative action taken so far - i.e. about the last 10 years - aimed specifically at protecting children from pedophilia, fighting child pornography, isolating the most dangerous criminals from society. The amendments to the rules in this area, particularly in the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, have taken into account most of the requests made by the Ombudsman. They are a milestone made by the legislator to strengthen the protection of minors victims of crime. In particular, it should be mentioned here that the offence of rape of a minor under the age of 15 is a crime, a change in the course of prosecution of a rape offence in public prosecution. New types of crime have been introduced, new types of eligible offences due to the age of the victim under the age of 15. The threat of criminal sanctions has been increased when the victim is a minor. A catalogue of cases has been extended to exclude the institution's failure to commit a conviction. The limitation period for the criminality of trafficking in human beings and crimes against sexual liberty and customs has been extended if the victim is a minor. The legal possibility of new criminal measures and testing measures has been introduced. Special conditions have also been introduced for the hearing of a minor victim or witness. However, while appreciating the importance of these laws to the protection of the rights of the child, the Ombudsman considers that they require further changes to the full protection of children, including protection against sexual crime. Among other things, in the Ombudsman's assessment, exceptions to the institution of failure of a conviction should include a broader catalogue of offences, i.e. also crimes committed to the detriment of minors with violence. It is also appropriate to request that the exclusion of the institution of failure of a conviction include convictions for imprisonment imposed with a conditional suspension of its execution. A tightening of the conditions for failure of a conviction is to ensure that children do not work with those who do not guarantee the proper performance of their duties. It is necessary to introduce a qualified type of criminal offence against trafficking in human beings where it concerns minors. Criminal authorities are too rarely using measures to isolate the perpetrator of violence from the victim's family because of the suspicion of violence. In relation to those convicted of child abuse offences, convictions are issued with a judgment of imprisonment, often with a conditional suspension of execution. It is apparent from the case law practice that courts rarely use trial and criminal measures whose judgment could ensure the safety of minors and guarantee lasting changes in the attitudes of perpetrators. Referring to the draft law on the prevention of sexual crime - in the area of the Ombudsman's competence - it should be stressed that the perpetrators of sexual offences against children often return to the crime despite previous convictions, and the sentenced sentence does not play a significant preventive role. For this reason, any amendment to the law that entails strengthening the protection of children from sexual crime deserves to be welcomed. The legal status currently in force in Poland does not provide for legal instruments enabling the supervision of perpetrators of sexual offences committed to the detriment of minors residing at large, and as regards the possibility of obtaining information on previous convictions of candidates for work or volunteering related to direct regular contacts with children, the right of the employer to verify the requirement of non-punishment of such persons has been introduced into trade laws. The creation of a separate register of sex offenders and the imposition on employers and other organisers of activities related to the education, treatment or care of minors to verify the criminal background of applicants may constitute additional measures to protect children from sexual violence. They are also in line with the directives already mentioned by the European Parliament and the Council. The obligation to obtain information from the register about the persons with whom the employment relationship is to be established or before they are admitted to other activities related to direct and permanent contact with children will allow for uniform formulation of requirements for candidates for work or volunteering. Referring to the proposal contained in the Article. 26 of the project, it should be pointed out that such a ban was introduced into our national order already in 2005. The provision included the optional judgment of that prohibition in respect of perpetrators who were sentenced to imprisonment for a crime against sexual liberty or vice committed to the detriment of a minor. Currently in force from 1 July 2015 the regulation of Article. 41 § 1a The Penal Code covers a wider range of subjects, i.e. sentenced to imprisonment of offenders against sexual liberty or vice to the detriment of the minor and sentenced to imprisonment for a deliberate crime against the life and health of the minor, but leaves the optional decision of the prohibition at issue. According to an analysis by the Ombudsman's Office of Children's Rights cases, courts are too rarely allowed to rule on the prohibition of occupation, occupation or activities relating to education, treatment or care of minors. These problems were signalled by the Ombudsman in his speech to the Minister of Justice in general, indicating the need to extend the subject of training to judges ruling in criminal matters in order to raise their awareness of such an important issue as the safety of the youngest. The Ombudsman also pointed out that the criminal measure in question fully, comprehensively and independently of other factors protects the youngest against the perpetrators of such cruel and serious crimes, including by guaranteeing employers the possibility of effectively verifying applicants with children. The Ombudsman also asked for consideration to be given to the possibility of legislative changes at the disposal of the article. 41 § 1a The Penal Code in such a way that this measure becomes mandatory in order to convict the perpetrator of sexual acts committed to the detriment of children. The change proposed by the Ombudsman would protect many children from the perpetrators of such crimes. The proposed regulation on the obligation to prohibit the occupation of any or certain posts, the pursuit of any or certain occupations or activities related to the education, education, treatment or care of minors is de facto the execution of a request previously made by the Ombudsman. It is also to be welcomed that the proposal extends the obligation to ban the conviction of the perpetrator on any penalty mentioned in the Article. 32 Penal Code, not just prison sentences. In conclusion, in the view of the ombudsman, the amendment of the law contained in the draft law on the prevention of sexual crime threats, which complements the existing legislation and introduces new measures to protect children from sexual crime, is an important change, because ensuring safety for children is a priority, and any form of fight against the phenomenon of sexual exploitation of children is a step in the right direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u304	Thank you very much. We're starting to ask questions. I would therefore like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. I hope we can all fit in one minute to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the increasing number of sexual crimes, the bill is absolutely necessary. Under the new law, a police map of the threat of crime will be created. It shall contain up-to-date information on the places of special danger. It is to be made available to the public on the websites of the Public Information Bulletin of the Police Headquarters. My question is: Will data from previous years be applied to the map? How far back are they going to go? What will be their scope, and will they be linked to the public record of sex offenders, which is also introduced by this law? I also wanted to ask: Is there a general opinion of the Data Protection Officer? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u306	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Moderns! In fact, I was going to ask you this question, but unfortunately I have to refer to the behavior of the gentlemen I see here near Mr. Jake. We're talking about really important things, very important things. I don't want you talking to each other on such important matters, laughing, texting and taking pictures of others. As a mother of three, I don't want you to underestimate what we're talking about today. [[Applause]] What are those smiles? Why do you not listen to what other Members say in their statements? Are you kidding me? We are talking about a very important matter and I wish there was respect for what we are talking about here, because these are not the things that should be done on the knee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u308	Madam President, please proceed to the questioning. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: No question.]] Katarzyna Lubnauer, I would like to ask you a question. There is no Member. In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u309	High Izbo! I am a messenger, but at the same time, the mother of two young children and their safety are the most important thing for me. I consider all actions aimed at combating sexual crimes to be the right thing to do. Are you sure the project you are presenting is effective, and who is it really hitting? Let's consider it. The authors of the law seem not to notice that making public the whereabouts of the perpetrator, the date and place of the offence can lead to the victim being wronged again by making it easier to identify the victim, especially if we compare it with statistics. Only 20% of crimes are committed by strangers to the victim, and 40% are committed by the victim. they are familiar, 40% They're family members at all. Therefore, disclosure of information about the criminal is unfortunately very often also a disclosure of information about the victim and the child victim. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that what we're talking about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u310	The next question will be asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club. There isn't. In that case, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an incredibly important bill, and it's delicate. A bill, however, we should work very hard on. A law that raises a lot of questions, very sensitive questions, two or three of which I have. Did the applicants foresee any verification of the enquiries submitted to the register by employers, organisers of activities related to education, treatment or care of minors? Will anyone verify whether this access is being abused? At which point does the employer have to submit this inquiry according to the applicants? Whether he should verify each of the several hundred applicants or selected persons [[♪ The bell ♪]] A candidacy? These are quite important questions and I would ask for a serious approach. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u312	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The matter is very, very delicate, and at the same time it causes that there is no absolute consent to what is happening. However, this project completely ignores the issue of the dissemination of information on how to prevent sex crimes, online crime and possible online crime prevention programmes. Does the government provide for the inclusion in the legal framework of these topics? I'm afraid the behavior of the gentlemen who are the rapporteurs... Really, it's very embarrassing when you guys are laughing, joking, and it's really very delicate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u314	Madam, please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u315	Thank you, that's all. [[Applause]] [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u316	The next question will be asked by Mrs Marta Golbik from the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Combating sexual crime threats is extremely important and, for this reason, a law that deals with such a difficult subject should be really well prepared, consulted, thoughtful. Unfortunately, there are many gaps, many ambiguities and many imperfect solutions in the one you have prepared. For example: draft law in art. Paragraph 12 (5) provides that the right to obtain information about the convicted persons whose data have been collected in the register will be available to government administrations, local authorities and other public authorities where this is justified by the need to carry out the tasks set out in the Act. Can we find out what these legitimate needs are, and who will judge them? The explanatory memorandum indicates that such cases are municipal grants to private entities, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but it is not the entities concerned that are included in the register, it is the persons concerned. Therefore, I have a question: Who will be specifically checked in this case? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u318	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Michał Szczerba from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We received yesterday's opinion from the Attorney General. The U.S. Attorney General points out some systemic contradiction that he noted in the proposed bill. First of all, it concerns the fact that you propose, you want the collection of persons whose data is to be published - I will remind you that it is data such as name, date and place of birth, as well as photography - that includes minors who have been legally convicted of educational, correctional or educational measures. The Attorney General considers that such a proposal is not appropriate because this proposal is grossly contrary to the well-being of the minor and can have irreversible effects on his psyche, destroying completely the objectives for which he has been applied to the minor form of his social re-adaptation. I would like the Minister to address these concerns of the Attorney General. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u320	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u321	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I would like to refer to all the issues that are being raised. However, it is impossible not to notice these, let us call it, comments from the Modern Messenger, which, as if they state that we are dealing with such a serious problem, and instead of solving it, you are smiling. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable ladies to who has drafted a bill that solves this problem. Is that a serious problem? You had to do something about it for three months, not pretend now. Besides, a Member who has already been here for the fifth or sixth term has always said to me: Mr, it is so that if a Member wants to ask a question and has nothing to say, he does not ask about the matter, he only talks about people and about the behaviour of specific people. And in this case, it's exactly the same. With regard to the question of criminals who may change their place of residence - through this open register - and therefore we will lose control of them through this register, the police will lose control of where they will be staying, I would like to point out that the honourable Member has not read the bill because of the article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 12 very precisely define the obligations laid down for this type of criminal and for the police in precisely the cases that you have spoken of. That's why this charge is absolutely false, it has nothing to do with the bill we're talking about. At the same time, there was an allegation of effectiveness that, allegedly, such registers function in the countries where they operate, these solutions are ineffective. Well, that's not true. If you wish, High Izbo, if you would like the honourable Members to reach out to the facts and the High House would like to reach out to the facts, it is probably the easiest way to reach out to the draft laws, the code changes that have appeared in this Parliament, and which Members mentioned among others. Civic Platform, for almost the last decade. And in almost every one of them you will find a justification that you need better tools to fight sexual crime, including against minors, precisely because in the Polish country we are dealing with much weaker tools, much less effective than in other European Union countries, including those where such registers are in force. All you have to do is reach out to the reasons behind these draft laws. [[We have these tests.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: We've got them.]] In addition, the question is whether we're going to go backwards by building a threat map for the police. I mean, if the police are building a map like this, they're gonna go backwards. According to the law, it will define a regulation, but in the intention of the Ministry of Justice it is that such solutions should go back as far as possible, because when we talk about increasing security, the information from the past is undoubtedly very important to us. There was also a question about the verification of the data and how applications will be submitted to this classified register. Here we are responding positively, and we will also want to harmonise the way in which these questions are asked, and for those who would like to use this in an unauthorised manner, we have provided for sanctions in Article. 21 of this bill. That's why this problem is solved. And of course, the whole series, at the very end, High Izbo, accusations or opinions, I can call it that, in which you state, especially or at all only the modern Members, you mention that with this project You have to calmly, analytically, that in general this public register is bad and what happens if it comes to criminal lynchings. So, in general, what does this come down to? Well, poor criminals, we have to take care of poor criminals. [[That's what you're saying.]] [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Your Marshal, objection.]] I want to say yes, High Izbo: just because of people like you over the last decade, we have failed to establish a pedophile registry, just by thinking like yours. [[It's just a lie.]] You have much responsibility for such cases as this: parents of a 2-year-old girl who was raped ask questions to the state why they did not know that a child molester was living near them for crimes with special cruelty. And I'll tell you why. It is because of people like you, people like you, who have been torpedoing these kinds of solutions in this House for years. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's a conspiracy.]] Such solutions have helped to protect many children in France, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, wherever such solutions exist. That's why, High Seym, forgive me, but the primacy of child safety, that's what we're after, and we're not gonna let you torpedo this project. Thank you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Not primacy, but PR, Mr.]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u322	Easy, easy. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: But according to the knowledge I will have to...]] Minister, please take it easy, okay? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: But I'm sorry, I didn't use a name. I didn't use your name, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u324	Take it easy. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick Like: There is no correction, I disagree.]] And I'm asking you, take it easy. [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: corrected.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: corrected only if I used a name.]] Minister, sit down. In the procedure of correcting the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! I'm afraid I have to address the words. Minister, young man, you are above all a young man. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: But the corrigendum...]] Can you listen to me?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u326	Minister, if you don't mind, I'm a vice marshal and you'll be sitting on government benches. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Patrick What: But your marshal...]] Have a seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u327	Minister, calm down. Young man, I'm gonna say this one more time, a little humility, because you're the one who spilled a few things out of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u328	Mr President, in the form of a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u329	Okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u330	Well, I'm asking for a corrigendum, if that's all right, not a comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u331	I would very much like to take the example of you and Marshal Brudziński - respect for women. Don't wave your children's mothers in front of your fingers because it's not nice. You're a very young man.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u332	Mr President, the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u333	Now. Nobody here is questioning this bill. You're only talking to the Modern because there's no one in the O.R. because you're partying with President Duda. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Here we are.]] [[Voice from the room: There are just as many of us.]] Who do you want to talk to? You're only talking to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u334	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u335	No one has ever told you here, Minister, that this bill is wrong. [[Don't tell me it's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u336	Mr President, I remind you that this is a form of correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u337	Everyone made comments. Thank you. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: I too want to correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u338	There you go. [[The voice from the courtroom: But it is not, Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u339	On the corrigendum and the words you have said, Mr President. You're not waving a finger at your marshal. [[Voice from the hall: We too are in favour of the bill.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We are in favour of this bill, say it out loud, Asia.]] Yeah, hold on. Mr President, no person on this side of the room, whether it was a Modern Member or a Member of the Civic Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u340	Member of the Commission, Member of the European Parliament...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u341	Corrigendum. She didn't say it was a bad project. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Everyone said clearly that this is a problem that needs to be dealt with, that this is a problem that is important to all of us, and that we do not agree that you should approach this project in a disrespectful way and do a show here. I understand your protégé and principle is the first showman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u342	Madam President, I ask you to correct it and not to comment on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u343	On the point of correcting, because you are lying, because none of those Members who spoke today said that such a law should not be set up. Don't lie to me, really. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: We are in favour.]] And respect the mothers of the children who spoke here today. And fathers, too. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u344	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the prevention of sexual crime, contained in print No 189, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 27 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. A list of Members notified... [[I'm still here, Marshal, to make a statement, Mirosław Suchoń.]] You're welcome to sign up. This is the last person I accept to make a statement unless someone else wants to make a statement. No one else is reporting, and I therefore consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. First person, Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to dedicate my statement to the events that took place in January 2015, specifically on 17 January 2015. 17 January 2015 is a very important date, an important date for the entire mining industry and the whole Silesia, but above all for employees of the Coal Company. January and last year is not an easy time for Polish coal mining, but certainly very important. Decisions taken since the beginning of the year resulted from the situation on the global coal market and its effects in Poland. In the world, the price drop, the oversupply of coal, and in the country, the decline in the profitability of coal companies. The beginning of the year, one can say, concrete, decisive about the government's decision to repair Polish coal mining. This is accompanied by a lot of emotions, anxiety, uncertainty. We remember the government's negotiations with trade unions to adopt a restructuring programme. Strikes, protests for years have been an integral attribute of trade unions, the social side during talks. That's what happened this time. It's all happening very fast, very fast. On 7 January the Council of Ministers adopted a recovery plan for the Coal Company, and on 17 January an agreement was signed with the trade unions. All Silesia has been waiting for this moment. Everyone breathed the words of Prime Minister Kopacz: "I wanted to thank you for a good, healthy compromise. Good not for us, but for the future of Polish mining. The Chairman of the Board of the Silesian-Dąbrowski Region, at the time, commented on these events: "At this moment, I am quite sure that this agreement will come into force and will have a good effect for Silesia and for the workers of the mines. I remember then the great determination of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz to save Polish coal mining, which took over the office of President of the Council of Ministers a few months earlier, and in particular on 22 September. Someone might say she must have, it's already been so bad. Yeah, it was bad, but a few months earlier, maybe a year, maybe two years before, it was bad, too. We remember then the attempts to create a repair programme for the Coal Company by the subsequent presidents with the participation of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy. It ended with an appeal from the presidents and a delay in time. Then, on 17 January, an additional thread appeared, the Prime Minister also declared work on the programme for Silesia. She said: "I want the heart of Polish industry to beat here in Silesia, so this program will also be a good introduction to this industrial centre here in Silesia. The support programme for the Śląskie and Małopolska industries of Western Silesia 2.0 was adopted by the government in Katowice in June 2015. I was glad that this program also included the construction of the Solidarity House in Jastrzębie-Zdrój, appreciating the miners and inhabitants of Silesia for what they did for Poles and Poles, for Poland in the 1980s and more. Undoubtedly, the political calendar, the upcoming parliamentary elections, the presidential campaign that has been going on since the beginning of the year, the harsh rhetoric, the stream of false information, the transformation of facts by the opposition, which the trade unions supported strongly, was very important and had an impact on what happened in January and last year. All of this raised emotions, raised anxiety among disoriented miners. It was in Silesia that the trade unions strongly joined the election campaign. This is where we even observed internal divisions within one structure of the union, where some supported the PiS, others Kukiza, ba, even talking about the fact that they organized election lists. These facts did not facilitate the negotiation and adoption of the Coal Company's recovery plan or the amendment of the Act on the Functioning [[♪ The bell ♪]] coal mining, although in this case the social side supported the provisions of the Act. Marshal, I'm almost done. Today, from the perspective of the year when the dust of the election campaign fell, it is easy for us to assess those events. It wasn't a waste of time for mining. There were important decisions, good and healthy compromises that were then made at different levels, in individual mines, coal companies, with miners, with trade unions, with management, with company boards and even with government. All these parties and their actions were responsible for every job, for healthy, economic mining. Let today's law and justice government, previously opposed to the agreement and amendment, testify to the validity of the decisions then made...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u346	Mr President, we are going to the end, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u347	...laws on the operation of hard coal mining. Today, the PiS extends the operation of the amendment of the law and fully implements the provisions of the resolution programme by the government Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. B, this programme is being implemented by the same persons - the government's representative for mining restructuring and the same coal company presidents appointed by the Platform Government at that time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u348	Thank you very much. A further statement will be made by Mr Simon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The representatives of Polish merchants are beating on alarms. Running away from turnover tax, the German Lidl network distributes its assets in Poland, and German hegemons on the Polish food and sugar market punish Poles with a 20% increase in sugar prices, while across Europe sugar prices stand still, lying and bluffing that this is the inevitable effect of the introduced tax. Great German commercial networks applied to Poland, Lidl and Kaufland, receive EUR 1700 million from the World Bank, a non-refundable loan, i.e. grants, under the Faresian appearance of supporting cheap food in Central Europe, and really for investment and expansion, to consistently destroy Polish trade and Polish producers. In preparation for the final solution of the issue of Polish trade, i.e. practically total liquidation of it, German commercial networks start cutting out the employed Polish management and converting it into German. In Poland Germany began to conquer and master Polish trade since the beginning of the 1990s. Lidl and Aldi entered the UK only 10 years ago and have already taken over half of the British market. He began to watch this closely and vigorously counteract Prime Minister David Cameron. Let us do the same with determination. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir. A further statement will be made by Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to draw attention to the situation of county hospitals. The policies of the previous government, the Ministry of Health and the NFZ towards county hospitals have in fact marginalised them, although these hospitals are closest to the patient and should play a key role as such in meeting the basic needs of local communities. These are first contact hospitals. Here, a patient requiring hospitalisation should be given first and only when the diagnosis shows the need for treatment - to a specialist hospital. The current policy has led to a deterioration in the financial situation of these institutions. Medicinal entities do not have to make a profit, but cannot generate losses because the budgets of their founding bodies, local authorities, are unable to cover them. Intensifying debt of district establishments is a common phenomenon. The previous government has pursued a policy aimed at property change in many county hospitals. Ownership changes in these facilities were often carried out in a questionable manner, both in terms of their purpose and in terms of how they were carried out. The health department is currently introducing regulations prohibiting the transformation of such facilities into non-public bodies. In order not to further indebt these facilities, it is necessary to take action to clearly identify the role that district hospitals should play in the health care system. The valuation of individual benefits should also be implemented. It is important to lay down clear rules for cooperation between entities with different reference levels. As the current Minister of Health takes many initiatives to repair the health system, it seems appropriate to pay particular attention to the situation of district hospitals, as well as to the involvement of representatives of these hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u352	Thank you very much, Member. And another parliamentary statement will be made by Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The management of the Ministry of Agriculture in the Government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, found a very difficult situation regarding the introduction of a new IACS+ programme, which was to handle payments made by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The new IT system in the AriMR doesn't work and calls things by name, it's an IT bubble. The reasons for this are undoubtedly due to insufficient supervision of public contracts and irregularities in the performance of the system by the contractor, as well as failure to comply with contracts and accepted contracts. So far, the payment of area and agri-environment payments has been made at 80% on 1 December and 80% on the scale of the county offices. agricultural holdings had administrative decisions issued with the payment granted. The correspondence between the Minister for Agriculture and the previous management of the Agency shows that the implementation of the scheme allowing full coverage of area payments will last until 21 April 2016. This date is a forecast date, so it may happen that farmers will only be able to receive full subsidies in May or June. While the expected timetable for payments is within the legal deadline, the pace of implementation cannot be satisfactory. In the spring of last year, farmers submitted 1.3 million applications. Most of them received only advance payments from ARIMR, which were actually calculated manually, outside the system, which is why these funds have strengthened their accounts. After a severe year of 2015 caused by the drought, farmers are in a very difficult financial situation. Most of them did not receive any support from drought aid, and many of them could be bankrupt in the markets of cattle and milk. Area subsidies have always allowed for the purchase of fertilisers, seed, fuel, plant protection products. This difficult situation can cause radicalisation of moods in the environment, completely unnecessary in the current and so difficult political situation in the country. Farmers are a professional group which in communist Poland has defended private property and national tradition and deserves full social understanding. The policy of the individual European Union countries comes down to protecting their agricultural producers from competition from within the Union, even though there is such a thing as a common agricultural policy. I am convinced, as most of our society, that a profitable market is planned from our country. Nevertheless, the Polish farmer is able to take up and win this competition through his market priorities. However, it must be supported and understood by its government and society. At the same time, in this announcement to the Minister of Agriculture, I request that all the legislation, regulations, regulations and guidelines in force in the Ministry be reviewed in order to improve and simplify the system arrangements for beneficiaries. I believe that the resort led by Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, assisted by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, will sort out all the irregularities, neglect of the predecessors and will effectively lead the policy of sustainable rural development. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Mizga, the Law and Justice Club, will give another parliamentary statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The tax currently proposed by the government reducing the unjustified advantage of a large-area chain of shops over small shops has long been very necessary and a pity that for so many years the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have not been introduced. Since 2007, nearly 50,000 have been closed in Poland. Stores. According to the forecasts, another 10,000. could be eliminated in the coming years. There are over 9,000 in our country. medium and large stores belonging to foreign companies, which in 2015 reached over PLN 110 billion in revenue. In comparison, the few Polish shops obtained revenue of about PLN 8 billion. In fact, small food trade in Poland is in agony. Small and non-networked shops cannot compete with giants on the market for years, dictating prices to suppliers with their own logistics and transport. Few people know that one job created in a large shop causes 6 to 8 jobs to be lost in local trade. Most of the goods sold in stores are produced abroad or in companies belonging to international companies, which further weakens the Polish economy. However, how can it be different if the big commercial networks already started in Poland and other countries of Central Europe were privileged? In the British daily Guardian, we learn that Lidl and Kaufland have received more than $1 billion from the World Bank and from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for development in Central Europe. Money is designed to enable, among others, money. offering quality food to poor people in our region. Sounds like a joke, but unfortunately it's true. Plus, there were five years of tax vacations from the Polish fiscal office. Besides, trade giants who can afford to support the most reputable law firms continue to bring money abroad. Polish business with such support could not even dream. The result of this privileged foreign entities is the fact that last year the turnover of the largest chain of shops, such as Ladybronka, amounted to PLN 35.8 billion, twice as much as our country's spending on schools, kindergartens and universities combined. The introduction of the changes proposed by the government will give the opportunity to rebuild domestic trade, although it will allow partially to compensate for unfair disparities and slow down the degradation of the Polish market. Similar solutions already exist in France, Spain, the UK and Hungary, so this is not an idea that is separate from reality or unheard of in Western economies. We absolutely need to save Polish companies, because they are a great value of our economy, they are responsible for maintaining hundreds of thousands of families, giving Poles faith in the cost-effectiveness of management and fair payment for hard work. Those who are raising arguments today in defence of the great foreign trade networks actually stand up against the Polish economy, against Poles who want to work for themselves, their families and for the development of Poland. Without the tax proposed by the government in a few years at the latest, Poland would become one big trading colony. For a country like Poland, this would be a very disgraceful and unfavorable finale. We have to reverse these tendencies! Poles should start paying attention to the origin of products and the property of shops. I remind you that Polish products are marked with a barcode starting with 590. Also, the future of the Polish economy and the existence of Polish families depends on us, consumers. Let's buy Polish products that are the best and healthiest. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u356	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Kurzapa from the Law and Justice Club to make a statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Listeners and Viewers! In fact, I address you in my statement, and in general to the young generation of Poles, because it happens that I am probably the only sociologist of young people in this term of the Sejm and I would like to inform you, young people, of some joyful circumstances for you. Today, as part of the Parliamentary Committee on Education, Youth Science, a subcommittee was established. adolescents. This is the place where you, middle school students, high school students, academics, as well as young people outside the educational area, those who drift in the everyday life of their youth, make various requests, petitions, comments. This is a team that will certainly, especially this year, reflect on how with you in a safe, worthy and mature way to experience events that will be spectacular in Poland, in Europe and in the world, for example, World Youth Days. Why am I talking about this? You know me from a variety of experiences, ours in common, when as a sociologist I accompanied you at various times of your youth, in these beautiful, wonderful circumstances pilgrimages, Jesus stop, in the Woodstock Valley in Kostrzyn, in the Bolkowy castle at various festivals, Castle Party and in many other places, such as youth in scout uniforms. So I know about young people, and I hope I understand them a little bit. Therefore, referring to at least nine of my books that I wrote about you, but also to you and your carers and parents, I hope that my presence in the subcommittee on youth matters will be effective enough to be the proper representative of your affairs. Although my competence was not enough to become one of the chiefs of this committee, I think it is not so important. Of course, you'll think, "I'm sure the guy's got a little bit of a problem talking about it." Well, I do feel pretty beat up by that fact, and I have three strategies to choose from, just like a young boy standing on the edge of the field waiting for them to pick him out. They didn't choose him, so he can go in there and rub himself in the field and mow it evenly, but actually the opposing team isn't responsible because they didn't choose him. He can start playing leader, and he can also dribble for himself to show that he has some skills and skills. What strategy will I choose? Let this be the secret of this term of office and of my strategy of functioning in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and in the subcommittee on youth matters. I think that my reflection should end with a certain optimistic accent, which means that there's always hope for the other half: maybe they'll pick you in the second half. This does not change the form of things: the Youth Sub-Committee is waiting for you and is waiting for you, for your services, also to give some basis to youth policy. The whole of Europe has this youth policy, there are the youth policies of the Member States. I think it is high time that the Polish government presented an integrated, rich and, I would say, a real plan not only for dialogue with young people, but also for youth policy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u358	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement by Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Modern Club. I don't see your MP. I would therefore like to ask Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention from this dignified place to a number of problems that I am dealing with as a Member of the Gdansk land. There are investments that are necessary and necessary, which cities cannot cope with themselves - they need co-financing from the central budget and, of course, EU funds. These are investments, mostly well-known, which we have been seeking for many, many years and which we have also - at least he has said - Mr Andrzej Jaworski from the PiS has been seeking. I am surprised that at the time when I tabled amendments to the budget concerning these four very important investments in our common district, Mr Jaworski and Mr PiS were opposed, he voted against these amendments. I am very surprised because, as we remember, in the campaign he said how much he wants to do good for this district. In this connection, I would like to go to concrete terms, and I would like to ask all of you to draw attention to this and, if possible, support them in tomorrow's vote on the budget when we vote on all our amendments, including the four that I tabled. I made the first amendment on the Gdańsk metropolitan ring road. This is a very important route, because the bypass, which is three-city, is already so sealed with housing estates - it was created even during the reign of Mr Gierek, which was very, very long ago - that actually at the moment it became a street, a wider urban road. A circuit route is very necessary, especially since - as you know - very large traffic flows towards the sea and to Hel during the summer period, but it is a really important communication route for the inhabitants of our region. This is the first investment. The second investment is the bridge to Sobieszewska Island, which is at the moment a pontoon bridge. For many, many years the city has been unable to cope financially, and in 2023 - letters of intent have already been signed - the organization of the World Scout Jamboree will take place on this island. This bridge is necessary because this is a condition that is made - a condition of safe access - for handling the whole communication of this project. It's supposed to be the main event. Also the main accommodation places for world scouts are to be right there. Another very important investment is the bridge in Tczew. The state which is in the Seym probably knows that in the previous term of office money was successfully included in the budget for the renovation of the historic beautiful bridge in Tczew, but only for the first stage. There's no money left for stage two. Also, in the form of carefully calculated money, I tabled this as an amendment to the budget. The next and last amendment I tabled, which, as I stress, Mr Jaworski, the current chairman of the finance committee, from this district, voted against. It is a green road with a tunnel near Pachołek, an investment which has been mentioned since the 20s, which has been to relieve the huge part of Gdańsk, the only access actually uncollisioned to a huge, growing district, to Osowa, as well as to Oliwa, which should be a more recreational place and less corked at the moment. It is also an important route for Sopot. This may not be the city of Gdansk, but also our constituency, Sopot. Sopot doesn't have any access to the ring road at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another thing that's very important about this Green Way. It is the only access to the planned metropolitan ring road, leaving the city that way. This is a very large undertaking and, of course, it needs to be staged for many years, but I would very much like to ask you to support these four very important proposals for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-01-27-sejm-09-1.u360	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 28 January 2016 at 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 52]]
