ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Kinga Gajewska, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Arthur Sobonia. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Artur Soboń. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Artur Soboń and Adam Andruszkiewicz. I consider the minutes of the 11th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors' Convention, I decided to remove from the agenda the current Sejm item: First reading of the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity, print No 241, which is because this draft was sent to the committee and the committee is about to report on this proposal. The group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Law on political parties and certain other laws and the self-correction. The design and autocorrection are prints 249 and 249-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors. [[Game in the O.R.]] The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the 2016 budget law. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in a joint discussion on draft laws amending the Law on political parties. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to the ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the document presented by the Council of Ministers: Report on public aid granted in the agricultural or fisheries sector in the Republic of Poland in 2014 and the report by the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the 2016 Budget Act. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the recognition by the Russian customs services of the TIR Carnet, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Members have made their formal submissions. Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am filing a formal request for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention, because I believe that the entire House should, however, find out why the government has decided to expel two very famous Arabian horse breeders. I mean here the boss of Janów Podlaski and Michałów. One of them is vice president of the World Association of Arabian Horse Breeders, the other received the award from the state in December and was a few years ago recognized as the best breeder of the world. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, you threw out these two very famous and respected breeders, and in Janów Podlaski, the boss was a man who, as he admits, until recently watched the horse only from afar, but already knows that it will be his life's passion. It happens so strangely that he is a sympathizer of Solidarna Polska. That is why I am very happy to learn what you have been driving, Minister Jurgel, that two respected farmers who have worked in this profession have been dismissed for almost 40 years for those who themselves admit that the horse has only been seen from a distance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u3	Thank you very much. I will inform you that, first of all, from a formal point of view, I cannot accept this as a formal proposal because it does not concern the agenda and, before a few, several minutes ago, the Bureau and the Convention of Seniors accepted the agenda. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not consider this to be a formal proposal. I inform the High House that this letter, the request of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on this matter, is to be sent to the Agriculture Committee for consideration, announcing that if the Agriculture Committee considers that these issues should be discussed by the High Chamber in plenary, I will put this on the agenda. I understand you asked for the floor of the Minister of Agriculture, Krzysztof Jurgel. From a formal point of view, please consider that this is a vote against. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! It's not a voice, maybe an objection in a way. Tomorrow, the question will be on the agenda. One of Parliament's horsemen asks such a question. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] What I'm trying to say is, today's about an hour. 14 The Agricultural Property Agency will issue a communication on this matter and you will find out what irregularities were and why they were cancelled. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Aaaa...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u5	Thank you. The formal application shall be submitted by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, pursuant to Article. Paragraph 184. 3 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to make a formal request - and I ask that it be voted out - to keep the deliberations secret... [[Voice from the hall: O Jesus!]] ...including and familiarizing the High House with an audit by Minister Błaszczak. It was loud and you accused the Civic Platform that the Platform was eavesdropping on 80 journalists. This is an appalling matter because the audit was commissioned by Minister Błaszczak on December 29th, 11th January has already been prepared and according to our information precludes listening to any journalist under the rule of the Civic Platform, [[Applause]] However, on 19 January, Prime Minister Beata Szydło informed all MEPs that journalists were being eavesdropped under the Platform. This is an extremely shocking thing. This is a talk. not only Platforms, but all Poles in the European forum, providing false, lying information despite having already commissioned audit. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I request that the House be kept secret and familiar with every element, with the appalling circumstances of its preparation and with the precise content of it, and the answer to whether journalists were being overheard or not. This is a thing that needs a clear explanation. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Objection, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u7	Thank you, sir. I also inform the Member and the High House that this is a similar procedure and procedure as with the previous proposal. This draft, this letter, is addressed to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If the committee considers that the High Chamber should be briefed on the work of the committee and with this information, then I will propose that the High Chamber take care of this. But you also asked for the floor of Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of Interior and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please take my vote as a vote against it. I'll make it very short. Well, sir, if you make such a request, use true arguments rather than liars. Minister Mariusz Błaszczak did not carry out this audit, and you in the first part of your speech are... [[He ordered an audit order, ordered it.]] There's a transcript. In the first part, you said he did. [[He did. If he ordered his subordinates, he did.]] The audit was carried out by the Bureau of Internal Affairs of the Police Headquarters. This is one of the police headquarters offices. That's one thing. [[How's the counselor doing after the verdicts?]] [[Counselor after the verdicts? Unbelievable.]] Secondly, I would, gentlemen of the Civic Platform, because the case is not over, and that is what I would like to say, I did not rush these proposals so much. Wait, really take your time with these conclusions and be careful that these conclusions don't turn against you. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Do not scare!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u9	I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u10	Communication on Panel meetings on 24 February 2016 The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Horses and Horsesmen races - hour 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Development of Transport Infrastructure and Industry - h.m. 11.30, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - Parliamentary Group for: Organization of World Youth Days Kraków 2016 - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Support of the Polish Defence Industry - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: solving the problems of the so-called inhabitants. Poland-Gminna County - h.o.b. 16, - Parliamentary Carpathian Team - hour. 19. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Economy and Development - h.m. 11.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11.15, - Health-- hour. 11.15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Senior policy - h.m. 12, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 14, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u11	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television (prints No 203 and 239). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u12	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television (prints 203 and 239). The above draft amendment to the Act on Radiophony and Television results from the need to amend the existing laws as a result of the fact that the European Commission has highlighted the need for legislative amendments in order to correctly implement all provisions of Directive 2010/13 on audiovisual media services. Although this is a minor project, a slight change, you can say: Technical, Committee on Culture and Media as always [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] She looked very closely at this project. She worked on this project with the participation of the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage and the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. The Committee on Culture and Media discussed this proposal at its meeting on 10 February. Several amendments were tabled and made during the course of the work - one editorial amendment, the other legislative amendment, then a few more extensive amendments clarifying the transitional provisions in this law. As a result of the discussion and exchange of views during the work in committee, all the amendments tabled were considered positively and then the Committee on Culture and Media gave a positive opinion on the whole government bill amending the Act on Radio and Television from print No 203. The Committee on Culture and Media recommends the adoption of this draft law by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mrs Elżbieta Raven. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the draft amendment to the Act on Radio and Television submitted by the Government is to fully align its provisions with the content of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, called the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. The European Commission has drawn the attention of the Government of the Republic of Poland to the need for statutory amendments in order to correctly implement all the provisions of the said Directive, which was carried out in the last two amendments to the Act on Radiophony and Television. The committee's comments concerned the revision of the current Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act on how to determine the acceptable lower participation of European programmes in specialised programmes which are only available on the Internet. On the other hand, they referred to the regulation of Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Directive providing that Member States provide in cases, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] where possible by means of appropriate means for broadcasters to reserve to European works a share representing the majority of the total time of broadcasting the programme, excluding time for broadcasting news, sports events, games, advertising, teletext and teleshopping services. Given the responsibility of the sender to the recipients in terms of information, education, culture and entertainment, this participation is achieved gradually, using appropriate criteria. As I have said, the European Commission has questioned how to establish an acceptable lower share of European programmes in specialised programmes which are made available only on the Internet. The Commission expects exemptions from such obligations to be made in individual decisions of the National Council for Radiophony and Television and not, as is currently the case, in an act of general character, which is a regulation. In the opinion of the committee, the law should not include an authorisation to issue an implementing act in this respect and thus constitutes the provision of an Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 4 of the Act on Radiophony and Television. In view of the findings made jointly with the representatives of the European Commission, the government proposes in the draft amendment that the definition of the lower share of European programmes be made by means of an administrative decision issued by the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council at the request of the broadcasters of a programme distributed exclusively in ICT systems. In considering such a request, the chairman of the National Council should take into account the number of potential recipients and the scope of the programme and the possibility of fulfilling the obligations imposed on the consignor. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposed amendment to the Radio and Television Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u15	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u16	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the revision of the Radio and Television Act. The current amendment, as Mrs Kruk has already said, is the implementation of the European Commission directive, which drew the government's attention to the need for legislative amendments in order to correctly implement all provisions of Directive 2010/13 of the European Union on audiovisual media services, on how to establish a lower acceptable share of European programmes in specialised programmes which are only available on the Internet. Following Poland's explanation of five issues, three were recognised by the European Commission and two, i.e. the scope of the law and the way in which exceptions to the principle of freedom of reception are defined, and the change in the way in which a lower participation of European programmes in specialised programmes made available on the Internet can be determined, are the subject of this regulation. Instead of the current regulation of the National Radio and Television Council of a general nature, the European Commission expected individual decisions to be taken by the National Radio and Television Council, through an administrative decision taking into account the number of potential audiences and the scope of specific programmes. The National Radiophony and Television Council at its meeting on 10 February 2016 did not comment on the draft or on the way in which it implemented the law we are currently talking about. Although the Civic Platform Club abstained during the committee's deliberations due to our view that this draft law was not prepared properly, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Liroy-March will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're still patching up the 1992 bill; another Semys put more patches on this bill, and it looks like an Indian pled at the moment. We do not question the purpose of this amendment at all: it is clear that simplification of the administrative procedure for issuing decisions in the National Radio and Television Council is needed. Nor do we question the need to bring the law into line with the media directive. We will therefore support the proposed proposal, but it is worth noting that today's amendment concerns only a few broadcasters, and that there is a need for much further and comprehensive changes. Both the media market and the creators' environment expect the Radio and TV Act to be adapted to the requirements of the 21st century. We know that public media are currently at the heart of the government and the majority of Parliament, but they also need to be prepared for the challenges of the 21st century. We know, for example, that the government does not plan to withdraw public broadcasters from the advertising market despite plans to maintain the subscription system. We know that thanks to the amendment of the Kukiz club15 by June we need to adopt a new formula for the existence of public media and then replace their temporary authorities with new ones, I hope, this time for a longer period. All this requires discussion, public debate involving experts, creative people, journalists and scientists. So far, without seeing the intention of starting such a debate on the side of the PIS, we decided as the Klub Poselski Kuliz In fact, it should not be surprising because there are at least two musicians in our club and this bill not only interests us for purely seymous reasons, but above all we represent this environment. That is why we are looking at this law all the more and we would like it to meet the conditions that satisfy all parties so that it is not another law that is intended to meet only government requirements. One time, at the very beginning, when we were talking about this bill, I told you I'd be looking at your hands. We don't exactly like what we're seeing so far. But, as I said before, we will, of course, support these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the words of the previous speaker, Mr Liroy-Marc: we are also looking forward to a new media law with great impatience. I hope that we will work together on this. On the other hand, as regards today's amendment to the Act on the National Radio and Television Council, this amendment is required by the European Commission, which drew attention to the need for legislative amendments to implement correctly all provisions of Directive 2010/13 on audiovisual media services. The Commission's comments concerned an amendment currently regulated in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 point 4 of the Act on how to determine the acceptable lower share of European programmes in specialised programmes. The comment submitted by the European Commission concerned a change in how to determine the acceptable lower share of European programmes in specialised programmes which are made available only on the Internet. The European Commission expects exemptions from such obligations to be made in individual decisions of the National Council for Radiophony and Television and not, as is currently the case, in an act of general character, which is a regulation. In the opinion of the European Commission, the law should not include an authorisation to issue an implementing act in this respect. The draft amendment proposes that the determination of the lower share of European programmes in the television programme be made by means of an administrative decision issued by the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council at the request of the programme broadcaster. When considering such a request, the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council should take into account the number of potential recipients and the scope of the programme and the possibility of fulfilling the obligations imposed on the broadcaster. It is necessary to introduce a transitional provision in respect of the existing regulation of the National Radio and Television Council in order to maintain it until the adoption of a new implementing act by the National Council. Otherwise, there would be a legal gap preventing the use of a lower amount of European programmes in the remaining ones mentioned in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 programmes until the new regulation is adopted. The National Radio and Television Council will have 12 months to issue a new regulation, in which programmes will be omitted only in the ICT systems, because those since the entry into force of the rules will be excluded from the regulation and will be subject to direct decisions by the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council. Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment concerns the mode in which broadcasters of programmes distributed exclusively in ICT systems will be able to obtain a lower share of European programmes in specialised programmes. According to the project, the chairman of the National Council will decide this in an individual decision, not, so far, the National Radio and Television Council in a general regulation. Whether this change is beneficial or not, it will show how the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council makes individual decisions. Member States shall report to the European Commission every 2 years on the application of the provisions of the Directive. The modern law supports the draft law and does not make any comments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u21	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możdjanówska, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u22	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am honoured to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television. As my previous speakers said, we are all waiting for the media bill that was announced in November. Today's amendment to the Act follows only the recommendations of the European Commission, which relate to the implementation of the Polish right to the provisions of Directive 2010/13/EU on audiovisual media services. In particular, the recommendations address how to determine the acceptable lower participation of European programmes in specialised programmes which are only available on the Internet. The European Commission has commented that exemptions from such obligations should be made in individual decisions of the National Radio and Television Council and not, as at present, in an act of general character, which is a regulation. After the amendment of the Act, the so-called exemption decisions. the screen amounts are to be issued by the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council at the request of the programme broadcaster. When considering such a request, the President should take into account the number of potential recipients and the scope of the programme and the ability to fulfil the obligations imposed by the consignor. According to the Act on Radio and Television, broadcasters are required to devote more than 50% of the quarterly broadcast time to European broadcasts, excluding information services, advertising, sports broadcasts, text messages and game shows. The Radio and Television Act also provides for participation in the quarterly broadcasting of European programmes produced by independent producers. The broadcasters shall be required to allocate at least 10% of the programmes to the above programmes. quarterly transmission time, of which broadcasts produced within 5 years prior to dissemination in the programme should be at least 50%. However, exceptions are permitted from these rules. Screen amounts shall not apply during the first year of the existence of the sender or in specialised programmes. The channels addressed to national and ethnic minorities are also excluded from the screen quotas, and broadcasters are excluded in ICT systems, i.e. only distributed on the Internet. Due to the fact that the draft law implements the obligation to implement European Union law, as well as the fact that in most countries of the European Union there are similar regulations, the club of the Polish People's Party supports the solution. However, I would like to draw attention to the inaccuracies in the very justification of the Act, where we read that the bill was drawn up in cooperation with the National Council for Radio and Television, which, as the constitutional authority competent in matters of radio and television, has a broad knowledge of the problems occurring in the media services market, which does not require comment, while unfortunately, in the Committee on Culture and Media, the President of the National Council for Radio and Television denied that he was not informed about this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u23	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would like the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Krzysztof Czabański. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions actually weren't there, so the government doesn't see any reason to... [[They'll be here soon.]] They'll be here soon. We therefore request that this amendment be adopted. By way of explanation, the last Member to speak. The chairman of the National Council was informed of this because this amendment was tabled at the end of the last parliamentary term. She was consulted at the time. We have taken over this amendment in the same shape. Therefore, it was indeed not informed twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u25	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants, Mr Babinetz. [[No, thank you.]] I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. High Izbo, I declare 10 minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 36 hours 11 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors (prints 217 and 237). I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u26	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors, print No 217, included in print No 237. In the beginning, I would like to approximate the matter that our committees have faced. I will also quote some facts based on the information which she presented at the meeting of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Ms Jadwiga Emilewicz. The Act serves the application of Regulation No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013, i.e. it transfers European legislation to the legal system of the Republic of Poland. The intention and purpose of the proposed law is also to ensure security. Those provisions allow the marketing of substances from which explosives may arise to be supervised. These substances, let's call them components, these are precursors. Among the precursors we include. acetone, oxidised water and ammonium nitrate used in the manufacture of artificial fertilisers. They are not dangerous on a daily basis, but they may create explosives. That it is possible, she showed us, as has already been said many times, a crime committed in Norway by Anders Breivik, who used, among others. substances used on a daily basis for the production of fertilisers. It should be noted here that the regulation of the European Commission, which we are transferring to our legal order by this law, was the result of those events. The Act creates a nationwide system for reporting suspicious transactions or attempting to make such transactions, establishes a national contact point, identifies the tasks of the authorities and bodies competent in control matters and establishes sanctions for infringements. I shall now proceed to the discussion of the committee's work. Ladies and gentlemen, Marshal of the Sejm in accordance with Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 2 February 2016, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for first reading. The first reading was held on 9 February 2016 at a joint meeting of the two committees. In relation to the presentation of the government, the committees adopted inter alia. amendments to take account of the editorial comments made by the Legislative Office, which concerned, inter alia, for the terminology clarification of the wording of the rules, and a new article imposing an obligation on the Minister responsible for economic affairs to publish a list of delegated acts - this article is relevant for the interests of the persons liable to report suspicious transactions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5, print No 237, it was clarified that the nationwide system for reporting suspicious transactions or attempting such transactions was created by the Chief of Police. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 of this printing, the committees have clarified that the data or information collected in the notification system shall be made available, provided that it is necessary for the performance of the statutory tasks of the bodies which ask for such data or information. In addition, with regard to this article, the committees adopted an amendment on the obligation for the chief police officer to report not only information on suspicious transactions reports but also on attempts to make such transactions. They also clarified the annexes to the bill. In Chapter 3: Criminal provisions, committees have introduced the following amendments: in Article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 12 amendment specifying that a significant number of precursors will be subject to the ban and not to any number of precursors, in Article. 13 amendment specifying that the correction will be subject to assessment by the competent authority. These two amendments in the evaluation of the committee are going to meet our local, Polish specifics. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 committees adopted an amendment amending the content of the submission. This amendment follows from the fact that the Sejm recently passed a law amending the Police Act and some other laws, so-called. the surveillance law in which the article has been amended. 9e paragraph. Point 1 (4) of the Border Guard Act. This amendment was necessary in order to avoid the overlay and not to omit this amendment. Therefore, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development after first reading and after considering this draft law at its meeting on 9 February 2016 request the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u27	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the government's draft law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors. We are following long discussions at committee meetings, where we have actually discussed the possible risks arising from the introduction of these rules and the possible impreciseness of these rules. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the amendments that were tabled during the discussion. In fact, as the rapporteur said, we recognise that these amendments, which have been proposed, deserve support. On ours, so to speak, we agree on the analytical way to adopt these amendments. 10 on the need to write down that there are significant amounts of substances that can be a basis for the production of dangerous substances. So this amendment we accept - we believe that this form of writing is much better than the vague provision that any quantity of substances can be the subject of an analysis of the Police Headquarters. As far as criminal legislation is concerned, we propose to support the amendment which states that there are significant quantities of explosives precursors subject to restrictions with regard to the average user. We also pay attention to the article. 13, in which it is said that any person who has failed to report a suspicious transaction or attempt to make such a transaction may be subject to fines or restrictions on freedom. We stress that it can be subject to, as the relevant authorities of the state should individually approach various types of events here, so that, for example, they can. The wholesaler was not punished for bringing materials to his warehouse that could become a base for the production of hazardous materials. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We agree to accept this project. We will vote in favour of its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law on the safety of trade in explosives precursors. The Act serves the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013. It introduces rules restricting access by natural persons to selected high-risk chemicals at concentrations that may be used for the illicit manufacture and use of explosives to carry out terrorist attacks. At present, there are seven such substances. It's about cases where buying precursors is suspicious, e.g. because of their extremely large quantities or suspicious circumstances. The definition of a suspicious transaction is given by the Regulation of the European Parliament referred to above. The Act is an instrument whereby a seller or another trading participant may report suspicions of an explosive precursors transaction. The regulation establishes a national contact point where suspicious purchases can be reported. It will be conducted at the Police Headquarters. The draft law allows for the exchange of information between Member States' national contact points due to the possibility of cross-border movements of explosives precursors subject to restrictions if there are reasonable concerns that they may be unlawfully used. It also defines the system of penalties and the organisation of police, Border Guard and Customs work to the extent indicated. The general intention of the law is to ensure safety and to enable the application of European Union law in Poland. It aims to implement European law and has obtained a positive opinion from the Foreign Minister as compatible with European Union law. Despite the delays in implementing this regulation against the background of other Member States of the European Union, it is worth mentioning that up to now half of them have implemented these provisions. Several amendments were tabled during the first reading, mainly editorial and clarification. Significant changes include an extension from 30 days to 90 days of the entry into force of the Act. This will allow the police to organize the work of the contact point, and the average user will have more time to read the regulations. In view of all of these aspects, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the bill submitted with this remark that during the second reading an amendment on the administration of personal data without the knowledge and consent of the data subjects will be discussed. The idea is that the police should be exempted from the obligations imposed by Article in performing their operations. 24 Personal Data Protection Act to the data controller. We did not resolve this at first reading. This amendment should be consulted with the General Data Protection Officer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u31	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! Draft Act on the safety of trading in explosives precursors. The Sejm is required to adopt a law to implement the provisions of Regulation No 98 of the European Union of 2013. The following issues must be covered by the Act. First, the designation of a national authority called the so-called "national authority." the contact point. It's supposed to be the chief of police. Secondly, deciding whether there are exceptions to the total ban on the sale of explosives precursors by the adoption of a model, authorisation system or registration system in Poland. Thirdly, the definition of criminal sanctions in the event of infringement. According to the project, Poland will not benefit from the possibility of introducing exceptions to the total ban on the sale, possession, acquisition and use of explosives precursors by consumers. According to the project, this will allow for even better improvements in public security. Unfortunately, in the explanatory memorandum of the bill there is no explanation of why in Poland, unlike other countries of the Union, there will be no exceptions, since exceptions to something useful are to serve. Therefore, the omission by the government of why there will be no exceptions in Poland is an important flaw in legislative work. Citizens and their representatives in the Sejm should know why there will be no exceptions in Poland and make sure it is good. According to the Union Regulation, Member States were required to determine the penalties to be applied in the event of infringements. The bill introduces three types of crime. First of all, the crime that the seller will commit in the store if he makes available the explosives precursor to the consumer. Secondly, the offence that the consumer will commit if he buys, owns or passes on to someone else's precursor. Thirdly, the offence that the trader or his employee will commit if he does not report a suspicious transaction to the contact point. I would like to point out that, despite good intentions, some of the committee's amendments raise doubts and that the knowledge I have at the request of the PiS Club will be adjusted to what we join. Firstly, it is doubtful that the criminality of the act is affected by a significant number of precursors. A Union regulation bans explosives precursors without a requirement, but it was a significant quantity, because it is not the quantity that counts, but the concentration. The notion of a significant quantity in the Union Regulation only applies to the obligation on economic operators to notify the disappearance or theft of significant quantities of substances. Therefore, in the provisions of the Article. 11 and 12 of the Act as tabled by the committees, we propose to reject the amendments of the committee by adding significant amounts in the article. 11 and significant quantities in Article. 12. Secondly, the proposed wording of the Article is also questionable. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Law on the Use of Words may be punishable, as this would be the only case in the Polish legal order in which criminality would depend on the free recognition of law enforcement authorities, prosecutors and courts, which would give these authorities complete freedom and would be contrary to the principle of legalism. Therefore, in the provisions of the Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 of the Act as tabled by the committees, we propose to reject the amendments of the committee by replacing the word "substituted" with "may be subject to." According to the Union Regulation, the prohibitions and penalties imposed on consumers must be introduced from 3 March 2016, but the committees considered that the deadline was too short and took over the 90-day deadline proposed by the Police Representative, which would result in a temporary non-compliance of national law with European Union law. This leads to the conclusion that the government was significantly late with the bill being sent to the Sejm, although it had a lot of time to direct it earlier. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u34	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Presented to the High House to process matter as a government project, the aim is to introduce into the Polish legal order regulations contained in regulations restricting access of individuals to selected high-risk chemicals in concentrations. It remains beyond dispute that such substances may be used and used for purposes with unpredictable effect. The subject we are discussing is currently not covered by national regulation. The implementation of the rules contained in the report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs will enable the monitoring and control of the implementation of Regulation No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013. In view of the fact that the processed matter is of a specific and complex nature, it was appropriate for Members to gain in-depth knowledge in this area. Unfortunately, I have the impression that the government representative at the committee meeting did not succeed. The project creates and lays down rules for the functioning of a nationwide system for reporting or attempting suspicious transactions, disappearances or thefts of significant quantities of substances listed in Annexes I and II to the already mentioned Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. At this point, it is acceptable to raise the fact that, in the absence of in-depth knowledge of the names of the precursors specifically involved, we must agree in the name of higher objectives for the adoption of the bill. High Seym! Parliament can adopt any law, but we must realise that we are entrusting the implementation of this law to specific entities. I'm talking about the Trade Inspection or the Customs Service. However, we have the impression that the bill was not well prepared. According to us, it was written on the knee and in a sloppy way. We're asking each other questions. Wouldn't it be a little blind to implement this bill? Will they not often expose themselves to the seller himself, in a situation where every customer can, but does not have to, be a potential suspect? Limited time does not allow me to present just a few examples. For example, suspicious transaction, concentration, etc. Who will be the authoritarian judge, and on what basis will they be fully reliable? I will not mention the protection of both personal data and personal property of persons carrying out transactions, not always for criminal purposes. High Izbo! As a representative of the Polish People's Party and I personally want to say that we do not want to be perceived as opponents of the solutions presented in the committee report. We understand the seriousness of the situation, but we also maintain internal concerns about the lack of readability of the legal standards. We will make our decision on the draft at the time of the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u35	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Anna Maria Sarkowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am hereby honoured on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 to present my position on the Safety Act on the trading of explosives precursors. Why did this law become the subject of the work of the High House? Is it because free access to substances from which explosives can be made has caused significant risks to the internal security of Poland? No. Or was it because there was a specific social expectation about restricting the access of Polish citizens to such substances? No. The only and only reason why the High House deals with this law remains the requirement to implement the European Union Regulation into Polish law. Why are we doing this? The European Union has simply been frightened by terrorist activities, which, in most cases, it itself has allowed to enter its territory. This problem does not concern Poland so far. This regulation will in addition not solve the problem of availability of these substances for those who intend to use them in terrorist activities. Terrorists are able to produce such substances themselves in the most part in the so-called. home labs. This regulation will simply make it difficult for ordinary citizens to access chemicals that are present in many popular products. Here I would like to mention, for example, the issue of acetone, which at higher concentrations will also be unavailable to ordinary citizens, or the issue related to a popular substance - oxidised water, which contains hydrogen peroxide. Nor will this substance be available to ordinary citizens at a higher concentration. This Regulation and its implementing act impose significant restrictions on the trade in chemical chemicals and reagents for Poles. The Act requires that trade transactions relating to these reagents be controlled and recorded. Orders national control centres to be established for transactions with these reagents. Buyers are, of course, obliged to provide their personal or corporate data when purchasing. There is a further increase in bureaucracy, the monitoring and registration bodies. The Act also states that the list of reagents subject to control and registration of commercial transactions may, if necessary, be increased by further items. The Kukiz Club15 takes the view that security is important, but excessive regulation, introduced only because of incidents of abuse, leads to the formation of a police state. This law restricts access, as I said before, to very popular substances and leads to the possibility that, with the further extension of the catalogue of those substances to which access is difficult, soon most reagents sold in shops, in chemical companies will be subject to control, registration or difficult sale. For this reason, Kukiz15 takes the view that freedom is such an important good that it is not possible to restrict the access of citizens to substances that should be traded in general due to accidents. For this reason, Kukiz15 will vote against the above-mentioned law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u37	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, joined the question. I would ask you to speak, sir. I'm setting time for the question - two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I just wanted to ask you about all the materials we call precursors. They are ingredients of very popular products. So how are we gonna assess how much is threatening, who's gonna judge, are there any guidelines? Or is work being done in the European Union to lay down detailed rules for dealing with the issues covered by this Regulation? And I also wanted to put on the hands of the Marshal of the amendment, which, in agreement with the Ministry, is proposed by the Modern. I'm sorry I'm in such a shape, but this... And we are also asking that this draft be sent back to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a law on the safety of the trading of explosives precursors under consideration today serves primarily, as has been said several times here, the application of European Union Regulation No 98/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013. This concerns the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors. Much has already been said here, which was the source of this regulation. The first issue was security issues. You mentioned the incidental nature of the events here, but we do not imagine that a similar nature of the incident would take place in conjunction with the World Youth Day before which we stand and are before their organization. So this incident of theirs, but also the scale caused the preparation of such regulations and laws. Of course, it is always difficult in such cases to balance the right between security and economic interests or, as the Member said earlier, freedom. And keeping that common sense and proper proportion is our common task and concern. I hope that, as a result of the work that we are doing here, we will meet these two requirements and achieve the goals that we have set ourselves. In accordance with the European Union + 0, adopted by this government, i.e. nothing more than the obligations imposed on us by Community law, the draft law does not impose additional burdens on businesses, citizens and state administrations beyond what is strictly required by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The bill, which has already been mentioned here by all states, regulates four fundamental issues. First of all, it creates a nationwide reporting system called the so-called. suspicious transactions, the definition of which is contained in documents, or attempts to make such transactions. Secondly, it establishes a national contact point and therefore the place where such transactions or samples will be reported. Thirdly, it defines the tasks of the authorities and bodies competent in control matters, i.e. economic operators, average users, as well as border crossing controls. And finally, fourthly, he's setting sanctions for violation. The bill designates the supervisory authorities and the competent authorities in Poland in the field of the safety of trade in explosives precursors, obliges the police, the Trade Inspection, the Border Guard and the Customs Service. The national contact point, which requires us to create a regulation, to which these transactions will be reported, will function in the police structures. It will also lead - which is important throughout this process and the doubts that we all had during the discussion in the committee - information activities aimed at making entrepreneurs and citizens aware not only of obligations but also of how these dangerous transactions should be taken into account, what they are, what is worth paying attention to. In doing its utmost to ensure that such legislation does not constitute additional barriers or restrictions on freedom to conduct business, work is currently being carried out on specific regulations, how to determine exactly what such a suspicious transaction is. 28 Member States participate in this work, and Poland also has its representative. They are conducted precisely to define this clearly and unambiguously, to create an instrumentarium that facilitates, not just repressive, for those who trade precursors. The deadline for adapting the Polish legal order to Parliament and Council provisions and regulations on the placing on the market and use of explosives precursors was 2 September 2014. I will only say something that I also mentioned at the committee meeting, that half of the Member States have implemented at the moment, and half of them are in a similar situation as Poland at the moment. At the same time, with regard to critical comments on the timing and time of work, I think that this government has accelerated significantly the implementation, but I will also say that the regulation is binding directly, so even the lack of national regulation has legal consequences - the regulation simply applies. I will address the questions and concerns you have raised. There was a question about additional licences in other countries, e.g. in France, you must have thought of them here. In Poland, extensive consultations were held, real, extensive consultations with trade organisations, as well as hobby clubs, i.e. those concerned by the precursors. These additional licences operate in countries where, for example, there are a lot of swimming pools in private homes, where indeed such purchases are justified, hence these licenses occur there. In Poland, after extensive consultations, the opinion was clear that these additional licences were unnecessary. Additional licensing, as you can easily guess, is another complicated bureaucratic process. As I say, in this long consultation process, the need for such a need has not been reported by potential stakeholders. It is also worth remembering that precursors concern high concentrations. That's what the last question was. Concentrations will be regulated by the guidelines mentioned earlier by the European Commission. Poland is also actively involved in the creation of this, as we understand it, by the presence of a representative. Low concentrated substances will continue to be allowed to be sold under conditions such as so far. The issue of delay in implementation, as I have already mentioned, will not result in unlawfulness, because the regulation, as I said, applies directly. Precursors, their list. There was one question here, too. They are defined in the Regulation, which is 14 substances. This list will probably be expanding, because human invention and innovation is unlimited, so this list is not closed, but as I said, the Polish representative is also actively involved in creating it. Doubt concerning the use of data collected by the contact point. I must say that we have a positive opinion from the Data Protection Officer General, so that the issue of collection, sharing and operationalisation has already been clarified. If we were talking about certain obligations, let us also remember that these obligations are imposed by the regulation rather than by the law itself, because - as mentioned earlier - the regulation is in force even without the law. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the amendments tabled, we agree to delegate the bill to continue working in committee. At the same time, referring to the amendments tabled to the Article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 12, the government does not comment on them. Art. 13 - the term "possibly'. Let us remember that the decision on the application of sanctions or the decision on the application of sanctions is not in the power of the court, so, as far as this amendment is concerned, regardless of whether there is such a provision, because ultimately the State will decide whether it will be in the law or not, the final decision will still be in the power of the court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I listened attentively to the discussion going on here. Many of the cases that have been raised here have also been raised in committee, and they have been examined in depth. We have studied this bill very carefully. Well, the bill goes back to the committee, and we have some amendments that we're gonna be working on. There's still time to ask the government's representatives. I think the Minister has asked most of the questions, in fact, all the questions that have been answered in detail. I have nothing more to add in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u43	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Penal Code Act (Print No 218). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr. Patrick Jaki to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! I am pleased to present to the High House a project which is a de facto resuscitation of the electronic surveillance system in Poland. Why CPR? Currently, electronic monitoring of convicted persons is carried out on the basis of the revised provisions of the Penal Code and certain other laws which entered into force on 1 July 2015. Under this amendment, electronic supervision has been established in one of the forms of enforcement of penalties. The most important element of this change was the conversion of the previous sentence of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system into a penalty for the restriction of liberty. High Sejm, what caused these changes? They have caused that, as earlier courts have ruled, with regard to penalties in the electronic surveillance system, about a thousand such penalties a month, so after amending these provisions they decide, attention, High Izbo, about four penalties. This has made the system slowly marginalized - I am talking about marginalising this institution as an important element in the criminal policy of the state. In view of the above, we propose a return to previous solutions, i.e. Restoration of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system. What makes you say that? Allow me to present to the High House the advantages of the electronic surveillance system. The electronic surveillance system is a state-of-the-art, non-insulating, efficient and secure system for the enforcement of penalties, criminal measures and safeguards. The primary function of the electronic surveillance system shall be the supervision and control of the performance by the sentenced person of the obligations laid down in the decisions of the regional courts and of the district courts, in particular the exercise of the obligation to remain at the place of permanent residence or at another designated place and not to approach persons or protected places. I would like to draw attention to one of the most important advantages of this system, namely through the operation of the electronic surveillance system in 2009 and 2015 more than 23 000 have been released in detentions and prisons. accommodations sentenced for residential purposes. The High Sejm, for the first time in years, we are in such a situation that we have free seats in prisons, thanks to this system. That's an important advantage. Another important advantage of this system is effectiveness. In a total population of almost 50,000. The effectiveness of enforcement of judicial decisions so far is between 90% and 94%, measured by the number of orders and decisions repealed by the courts concerning the execution of penalties and criminal measures in the system of electronic supervision. In relation to the entire population to date, almost 50,000. In total, more than 4 000 have been repealed by the convicted courts. judgments, which accounts for only about 10% Ww. population, i.e. a group of convicted persons who has committed the most serious breach of the rules on penalties in the electronic surveillance system. I would like to stress that this is the highest indicator in the European Union where such systems operate. Current data indicate an increased level of efficiency in the execution of penalties in the electronic surveillance system: as of 23 November 2015 in the electronic surveillance system was carried out together 22 669 judgments of courts, of which 1399 decisions have been annulled by the courts, representing only 6.17% Ww. population, i.e. a group of convicted persons who committed the most serious breach of the rules of electronic supervision. Thus, during this period - in the last time we have been monitored on such a wide scale - the effectiveness of penalties in electronic surveillance systems is as high as 93.83%. Another important advantage, the High Sejm, is the cost of this system for citizens. At the moment, the cost of carrying out a stationary penalty in the Polish penal system in the prison paid by each of us, by each citizen is PLN 3150 per month. This is the cost of carrying out the penalty in the fixed system, while the cost of carrying out the same penalty in the electronic surveillance system is just PLN 331, i.e. the advantages, the economic advantages are much more visible. At the same time, we cannot fail to see another objective advantage of this system, namely rehabilitation as a form of punishment, which is carried out in an electronic surveillance system instead of in a prison in a stationary system; here it is worth to refer to the justification of the Law of 20 February 2015 amending the Penal Code Act and certain other laws implementing the Act on electronic surveillance to the ground of implementing criminal law. A small number of violations mean that those convicted appreciate the possibility of being punished in a system that allows them to maintain a relationship with their family and work, so they control their behaviour by complying with the requirements of the system. It should be stressed that the mechanisms of such self-control are very positive in the process of social rehabilitation and reintegration. Thanks to such a system of punishment, the sentenced have the opportunity to work freely, maintain ties and social relations, continue learning or carry out their family responsibilities, i.e. care for dependents. The analysis of the operation of the electronic surveillance system shows the advantages of an individualised approach to each of the persons covered by the system by determining the time and local scope within which the person concerned is subject to supervision or by determining the additional obligations imposed on the sentenced person, which is extremely important. Undoubtedly, the key asset of the electronic surveillance system is the importance it can play in the process of rehabilitation. This system makes it possible to leave a penitentiary, in which residence does not always have positive rehabilitation effects, and leaves in some form checks under conditions of participation in society, and from our data it also follows, High Sejm, that those who have been punished in this way are less likely to return to prisons, which is less likely to re-enter the path of crime. Thus, the High Sejm, the number of advantages of this system - a modern system used in most Western countries, considered to be extremely effective - is much more visible. That is why we are proposing this change in the criminal system, in the criminal policy of the state, because in our view the resurgence of this system is absolutely necessary from the point of view of justice, efficiency and the conduct of rehabilitation policy, the penitentiary state and from an economic point of view. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to express my position on this amendment. The Minister discussed the subject in very detail, it can only be added here, possibly supplemented, so historically, that since 2007, when these changes were introduced by the pilot act, which first only existed in the Warsaw appeal, and since 2012 - throughout the country, it must be admitted in a clear way that this system has worked. It concerned imprisonment for up to 1 year, unless there were grounds under Article. 64 § 2 of the Criminal Code. The system has always fully achieved its objectives due to the whereabouts of the convicted person, because he could continue his family ties, that he could also take up employment. It was of course - and it is also in these regulations - such a requirement that there must be consent of adults who live together with the convicted person to the functioning of the convicted in this system, and of course technical conditions must be fulfilled, which is also not yet possible throughout Poland. This system combines repressive values with rehabilitation and is most effective. Unfortunately, the Law amending the Penal Code and the Enforcement Code introduced this law of 2007 into the provisions of the Implementing Penal Code, but changed its functioning - the system of electronic supervision was considered to be one of the forms of penalty for the restriction of freedom, added to the provisions of the Article. 34 of the Penal Code, and in total it was transferred from the penalty stage to the judicial stage. So far, High Izbo, this stage of judgment is that there has been a very gross reduction of convicted persons who are subject to this system. Therefore, the amendment is necessary, and this is also acknowledged by the National Judicial Council, which, in its opinion of 17 February, states precisely that this has been a gross reduction in the application of this system, which is now a number of dozens a month, and is a decline since 1 July 2015. The change is therefore very desirable and requires rapid application. I just wanted to point out that I have such a legislative point that in the draft - print No 218 - there is a new wording of the article. 37b of the Criminal Code, which refers to the so-called. mixed penalties, and the same sound is also in another project - print No 207 - in the draft amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the provisions of the Penal Code. Maybe the Minister will answer if it's intentional, and it's controlled, or if it's just an oversight. I'm signaling this because there's no simultaneous adoption in both laws. In summary, the Law and Justice Club supports this project, calls for a legislative run and a referral, among others. to the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u47	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present a position on the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Penal Code implementing it. The Minister has already outlined the objectives of the amendment. Without a doubt, the electronic surveillance system is an effective tool for shaping criminal policy. The Civil Platform has already pointed to the effectiveness of this system in its work on the revision of criminal law. At the time, it was stressed that the choice of this form is not only justified on the purely fiscal side, but also a guarantee of faster results in the restoration of the sentenced person to normal functioning in society. This positive assessment was precisely the inclusion of electronic surveillance in the system of penalties, criminal and protective measures. High Izbo! In the opinion of this project, it is certainly necessary to refer to the changes introduced on 1 July 2015 concerning the electronic surveillance system. The importance of electronic supervision, which has become one of the forms of imprisonment penalty, one of the safeguards and the way in which the restraining order is enforced, has then been changed. The changes made were closely linked to the revision of the penalisation and enforcement policy. Let us remember that the idea of this broad amendment was to change the philosophy of punishment, i.e. to reverse the structure of punishments for freedom punishments. by increasing the flexibility of the penalty of the restriction of freedom. It was understood that justice was needed to respond to minor, non-insulating, but effective crime. High Izbo! Any change shall verify life, because only after a certain period of validity can we indicate how the courts, in which direction the caselaw is going, whether the proposed amendments have been adopted, whether they are properly interpreted and, above all, applied by the courts. The Penal Code gives the courts many opportunities and leaves them a wide range of activities in the selection of resources, the criminal response. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, giving up the possibility of a short-term imprisonment outside a criminal facility in an electronic surveillance system has resulted in a drastic decline in the decisions to execute a penalty in that system. At the same time, the explanatory memorandum does not indicate any flaws in the application of this system in the execution of the sentence of the restriction of freedom. We may wonder why the practice of imposing a penalty to limit freedom with the use of an electronic surveillance system has so far not been established in the judicial line of the court. Perhaps it will take more time to change the habits of the courts ruling on the sentence of liberty. Isn't six months too early to assess the change in electronic surveillance regulations? Today, applicants see a solution to the problem of falling decisions using an electronic surveillance system as a way of restoring the use of this system as a form of imprisonment and transfer of powers to the penitentiary courts, i.e. those solutions that have already been in place in our system. High Izbo! There is no doubt that after years of operation of the electronic surveillance system, this system proved to be efficient. This is a good way to influence criminals. As a country, we are prepared to make it even greater than the number of places in this system so far. Therefore, as a Platform, we will support changes that will allow maximum use of the possibilities offered by the electronic surveillance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15. You don't have an MP? Then I ask you to take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u50	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I took part in the honor of presenting the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Law Penal Code Implementing, print No 218. For the third time in the current term of office of the Sejm, we are dealing with a draft law on amendments to the Penal Code. Such frequent partial amendments to the Code only indicate a legislative mess in the Ministry of Justice. He is deepened by the fact that, as Mr Law and Justice has already mentioned, he has taken up a double article. 37b of the Penal Code both in the submission related to the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the present submission of the Seym. And it is not surprising that this is a mess, given that since 11 January 2016, the Criminal Law Codification Commission has not been in operation, but the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 16 December 2003 on the establishment, organisation and mode of action of the Criminal Law Codification Commission has not expired. The Commission is a mandatory body drawing up draft normative acts and, in the case of acts prepared by the Minister of Justice, evaluates them. This assessment in these draft amendments to the Penal Code, the assessment derived from the Committee on the Codification of Criminal Law, of course we do not have, which is a clear violation of the law. There is also a strong dislike of Law and Justice to agree, to consult the public. We were first served with parliamentary projects. Now, as with this project, it is a government submission, but there is still no agreement and no public consultation. So many general remarks, and now details. The bill in question eliminates as an inherent penalty the restriction of freedom the penalty in the form of an obligation to remain in the place of permanent residence or in another designated place using an electronic surveillance system. This penalty was introduced into the Penal Code on 1 July 2015 and was intended to act as an alternative to absolute short-term imprisonment. This penalty has already been lifted after 8 months, which is a violation of the principle of legal stability. It is appropriate to agree with the statement in the explanatory memorandum of the project that the electronic surveillance system has fully fulfilled its expectations and should therefore be used to a wider extent. But from this true diagnosis, in our view, the wrong conclusions are drawn. The temporary decrease in the number of persons covered by this system should not be linked to the transfer of the decision to apply the electronic surveillance system from the execution stage of the penalty at the time of the sentence, but to the transitional situation related to the operation of the electronic surveillance system as an spontaneous penalty for the restriction of freedom. This took place on 1 July 2015. For today, criminal proceedings under the new rules have not been completed, and judgments prior to 1 July have been exhausted, for which the rules on electronic surveillance could have been applied. Therefore, the conclusion that the continued use of electronic surveillance for the purpose of exercising a sentence of freedom limitation could lead to a marginalisation of the institution in the criminal policy area should be considered premature. The proposed solutions assume that the penitentiary will decide whether to allow the sentenced person to be sentenced to custody in the custody system. A further judicial authority is therefore being introduced, which will, firstly, extend the criminal procedure and, secondly, increase its costs, while the justification for the project indicates that the proposed solutions do not have financial consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u51	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position at the first reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and the Law of the Penal Code Implementing, print No 218, prepared by the Ministry of Justice. The draft implies adding to the Penal Code implementing rules determining the use of the electronic surveillance system as a form of execution of a prison sentence. The pilot act of 7 September 2007 governing the possibility of imprisonment outside the prison using electronic surveillance was in force until the end of June 2015. This form of punishment has been proven in practice, and now the technical capabilities of electronic surveillance make it even more possible to remotely control the whereabouts of the convicted person. Electronic supervision, in addition to the lower budgetary burden of the State - because here I agree with what the Minister said, that it is in fact a huge difference, because it is ten times cheaper for a person to carry out such punishment than in the case of a classic imprisonment, and this must undoubtedly be given away, cast in favour of change - it allows the convicted person to do his job or continue to study, but above all it allows to maintain family ties and social relations. And this is probably the strongest argument, I will admit, in favour of this proposal and in general the philosophy of punishment - this is the social aspect, because people punished with imprisonment until the year are punished with very little offenses, and it is probably very damaging to place these people among people who often commit much, much more serious crimes and thus to do something that could be called denial of rehabilitation. From 1 January to 30 June 2015, 6052 cases were ordered to execute imprisonment in an electronic surveillance system. Following the amendment of the provisions concerning the electronic surveillance system, i.e. from 1 July 2015 to 18 January 2016, 29 penalties for restrictions on the freedom of electronic surveillance systems were imposed. It is practically clear that there is a significant difference, but I too am willing to accept the argument here, not to draw too far-reaching conclusions from this numerical analysis, because - as with previous proposals - we have often said that a little time has passed since last year's amendment to formulate such far-reaching conclusions. However, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, after an examination of this proposal, agrees to direct the project by the Ministry of Justice to further parliamentary work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u53	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like to ask the floor of Barbara Chrobak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government's proposal to restore punishment in the electronic surveillance system is another legislative initiative to revive the Polish system of criminal response following the total failure of the reform of previous governments, which came to the courts on 1 July 2015. Several days ago, during our first reading, we assessed the changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which resulted in a longer and more expensive criminal trial, which, in addition, places people who are in conflict with the law in a privileged position and, in an even more privileged way, those who have unlimited financial opportunities. Now we are faced with the assessment of another solved - the abolition of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system, which was a solution, surprisingly, detrimental to those convicted of minor crimes, but also detrimental to the state. The authors of that reform seemed to encourage the courts to impose more sanctions on the restriction of freedom by giving up imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system. When I heard these arguments, I immediately remembered the year 1997 when the new Penal Code was adopted, a code that was supposed to reverse the trends in criminal policy and ensure the broad application of sanctions to limit freedom. The experience of the 20th century shows that the sanctions for the restriction of freedom have been adopted to a limited extent. The courts are not willing to use them. If the authors of the July amendment seemed to change these trends by abandoning the electronic surveillance system, this should be seen as far-reaching naivety. I must say that this move by the Civic Platform was probably the only solution that was unfavorable to criminals during the term of office, but, as I stress, these small criminals, and therefore, in our view, also detrimental to the state. For you it is not profitable to keep in prison tens of thousands of perpetrators of minor crimes, often people with a stable family and professional situation. The imprisonment of such persons in a prison leads to their being freed from a stable lifestyle. They lose contact with their work for several months, to which they most often do not return, and they also lose contact with their family. There is a distribution, in the majesty of law and at the initiative of the state, both family and professional ties. The sentenced and incarcerated are in isolation for several months, while the state pays for its maintenance. During this time, the convicted does not work and does not work for national income, does not pay taxes. The price is therefore double and paid by another Kowalski who has not fallen into conflict with the law. I don't need to convince you that the rehabilitation of such a perpetrator is pure fiction. Ladies and gentlemen, no one among the creators of that unfortunate July reform paid attention to the serious problem of people who were sentenced to prison sentences with conditional suspension of their execution and committed another minor crime during the trial period. The execution of suspended penalties without the possibility of flagging their implementation in the electronic surveillance system is currently managed on a massive basis for such persons. These are the perpetrators of the most minor crimes, the perpetrators who queue to stay in prisons at the expense of the state and do not have a gate in the form of an opportunity to apply for the so-called. A bracelet that would allow them to stay with their family and provide work. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the thinking of previous governments, which with particular emphasis protected the guarantee of the perpetrators of the most serious crimes and sacrificed the welfare of ordinary citizens committing these minor crimes. In our view, there is no other way than to support the government's submission to repair the pitiful effects of the July experiment. Of course, this does not mean that this support will be reckless and will take place without a thorough discussion of criminal policy, because they are certain, correct, as it seems, arguments against the opponents of detention sentences in the SDE. One is particularly important and is linked to the decision-making process of the Court of First Instance, which, when assessing the objectives of the penalty, decides to execute a sentence of imprisonment without conditional suspension. Those, especially the judges, who believe that the decision of the Penitentiary Court, which is actually a different formation of the Tribunal, may lead to a review of the judgment that has already taken place in the area of the sentence, not in the secondary proceedings but in the enforcement proceedings. It's highly questionable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The solution to this only major project flaw seems simple. It is sufficient to allow the Court of First Instance to rule on the sentence of imprisonment in the SDE. The objectives of the Government's submission will then be achieved to the same extent, while at the same time discussing the intervention of the Penitentiary Court in the process of ruling by the Supreme Court in respect of the penalty. I consider it necessary to eliminate this weak point of the project in further work in committees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u55	Thank you very much. Six Members joined the questions. If there are no more calls, I'm closing the list. Time for questioning is set for two minutes. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will ask you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Currently, the electronic monitoring system covers a dozen or so thousands of prisoners whose imprisonment does not exceed one year. It's ten times cheaper than being sentenced to prison. Short prison sentences often involve people who do not pay alimony. Under detention, they cannot do paid work and therefore still do not pay the maintenance debt. The electronic surveillance system allows paid work outside the place of residence. In the case of maintenance debtors, this is a good solution. However, there is a strong restriction on the execution of this penalty. In most cases, prison sentences go to a prison, and only from here can he apply for an electronic surveillance system by submitting his application to the penitentiary court. The circulation of documents, the examination of technical conditions and the appointment of a court meeting in such cases take a very long time. Therefore, I have a question: Is it possible to speed up such procedures and does the government take into account changes in the rules so that penalties of more than 1 year, but less than 3 years in the electronic surveillance system, are also possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u57	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to ask Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u58	Dear Marshal, Minister! The situation in Polish prisons and arrests is bad. There is not yet complete data for 2015, but already data for 2014 do not give reasons for optimism. According to this data, the number of places in prisons and detentions is used in more than 90%, without taking into account persons staying in medicinal facilities outside of prisons and arrests, in police premises, issued as witnesses to another country or so-called. fugitives. Plus over 30,000. Those sentenced with final convictions expect a time limit for going to a prison to serve the sentence of imprisonment. The prisons are therefore overcrowded, and when we take into account the urgent need for renovations in some of them and the fact that they were carried out on 31 December 2014 about 18 thousand. prison sentences up to the year of imprisonment, the situation is not good. After 1 July 2015, the number of prisoners subject to the system of fixed and electronic surveillance fell sharply because the law on the execution of imprisonment outside the prison was no longer in force in the system of fixed and electronic surveillance, and the rules on this form of punishment were transferred to the Penal Code, i.e. after 1 July 2015 the stationary supervision became one of the forms of execution of the penalty for the restriction of liberty. In the period from 1 July to 31 December 2015, the courts only ruled 58 times the execution of the penalty in the fixed custody system. In conclusion, it is necessary to amend - as soon as possible to restore the possibility of imprisonment in the system of fixed, electronic supervision, and to extend the possibility of using this form of punishment to persons sentenced to short-term imprisonment for so-called imprisonment. minor crimes. Restoring this form of punishment will also contribute to the effective rehabilitation of convicted persons. Therefore, I have a question: How much does the state budget cost per year to stay in prison and how much does it cost to stay in prison? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Steady-state surveillance? And from this point on, I would like to thank the Minister for this bill. This is a correction of the error that the PO-PSL coalition has applied to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u59	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions for the Minister. Minister, does the Ministry of Justice consider it a deliberate sentence not exceeding 1 year's imprisonment, since, according to the draft amendment, the sentenced person will be able to carry out it in the form of electronic surveillance, i.e. de facto, as if he were actually serving the sentence of the restriction of liberty? Minister, the amendments introduced on 1 July 2015 meant that the penalty of the restriction of freedom would not be associated only with the so-called 'freedom'. by doing things, that is, social work, and its effects will be much more felt for the condemned. How, then, will the bill affect the ailment of the penalty of the restriction of freedom? And the third question. Minister, the problem lies in the way of case law. The primacy of the sentences of liberty and the harsher application of the penalty of the restriction of liberty is a prescription for overcrowding in prisons. Wouldn't it be better to work on improving the way of ruling in Polish courts than to change the rules every six months? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u61	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few brief comments on the proposed amendment to the proposed amendment of the Penal Code Act. Art. 43c § 1 - there is a difference between the restriction of liberty and the deprivation of liberty as to the nature and the way in which the sentence is enforced. Will the changes put in place result in a significant multiple increase in the number of supervised persons? And one more thing. The General Court may grant authorisation to serve a term of imprisonment in an electronic surveillance system despite the lack of consent of the co-habitant referred to in Article. 43h § 3. This is the wrong solution. Will it be verified? In summary, the right of the citizen of the Polish state to peace, privacy and security is sacred; the execution of the penalty in the system of electronic supervision of the sentenced person must, however, be carried out on clear and clear terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u63	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Punishment in a closed system often results in demoralisation, involvement in a criminal environment and ultimately redecisive. Electronic surveillance eliminates these effects. Minister, have you taken into account these possible effects of the amendment of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u65	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since, in the short term, you are proposing another rather important institution in the Penal Code, I would like to ask if it would be better for both legislative techniques, but also for such a more thorough discussion not only strictly about this institution, but also more about criminal policy, about the justice system in Poland, to put together, to massage these changes into one more profound amendment. I think it would be much better for this debate, which we are once again holding at such short intervals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u67	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here Mrs Tomaszewska pointed out that, indeed, young people who go to prison sometimes come out of these establishments corrupted. And therefore, the question to the Minister. Would it really be possible to direct these electronic surveillance activities a little bit so that, indeed, in the first place, people who are young, whose stay in a prison can actually bring more harm than good? That's one thing. The second issue is related to savings. Are there any exact calculations, how much can the budget save? Indeed, staying in prisons is quite expensive. Therefore, it would be good to know that, in addition to, say, such cases of overcrowding in prisons, the state budget will also save substantial resources, which would be very desirable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Patrick Jaki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u70	Dear Marshal, High Seym! To answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen, first of all, twice the doubts about double entry in the bill, I would like to say that the draft actually contains the identical wording of the article. 37a and Article 37a 37b Penal Code as a draft in print No 207. The projects are created taking into account the current legal situation, which seems obvious, the High Sejm. In both cases, this provision is needed because of the remaining solutions, because, the High Sejm, the government cannot anticipate on one of the projects that the Sejm will certainly adopt in an unchanged form another project, which is also in the process of legislative process in the Sejm. This is an absolutely typical and legislative situation. As regards the doubts raised here that we are abolishing the penalty in the electronic surveillance system after 8 months of operation, I would like to stress, Mr President, that we absolutely do not do so. I mean, the penalty in the electronic surveillance system is still functioning, we're just talking about changing the rules of law on the basis of which you can rule the form of punishment in the electronic surveillance system. As regards the second doubt that we are introducing a new judicial authority, which is the Penitentiary Court, I would like to remind you that this is not true. Penitentiary courts have existed for seven years, they exist all the time. Among other things, the penitentiary courts continue to impose penalties in the electronic surveillance system on the basis of transitional provisions which entered into force on 1 July 2015. Another question. How can we be sure that this change will reverse the trend? This certainty stems from our experience, it can be said, empirically, that is, when the form of punishment in the electronic surveillance system was possible as a penalty for imprisonment, it was the courts, and it was the prison courts that were willing to rule it, and when we changed it to the penalty of the restriction of freedom, we gave jurisdiction when it came to the judgment of those penalties, to the district courts, that the district courts actually ceased to rule that penalty. That is why this experience gives us confidence that this project has the benefits of efficiency. Can this project be directed towards young people who, sometimes, come out of prison even more depraved? As far as it seems to be right, I would like to point out to the Member that unfortunately we cannot share the sentenced because of age, but I can only add, by the way, that we are talking about punishment up to the year of imprisonment, therefore these are penalties which are used for offences of a lesser caliber. This is why young people are often affected. As for the charge or the question concerning the mess at the Ministry of Justice, I would like to point out that the area we are discussing today, the High Sejm, is a mess, and we are tidying it up with this bill. This mess is due, among other things, to the fact that there is a very large gap between judging, issuing decisions by penitentiary courts and regional courts. There are very big doubts that the High House, which you spoke about, which Members of this House spoke about in the case of interpretation by the courts of the new rules. So this mess exists, we want to sort it out. Before the entry into force of these provisions, there was no such doubt and there was no such debate in the Sejm. That's why we want this system completely sorted out. The question of burden... aha, if I may, High Sejm, the latest data in this area. As the High Sejm knows, the penitentiary courts continue to be able to rule on the provisions of the transitional sentence of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system. And I would like to say to the High House that, in January, the penitentiary courts on the basis of transitional provisions issued decisions, ruled 2809 sentences of imprisonment in the electronic surveillance system and, on the basis of the new rules from 1 July to today, the regional courts ruled 6 penalties. And this is the dimension we're talking about, the High Sejm -- this is hard data with which it's hard to argue. The next question - the penitentiary courts. It's hard to agree with that, too. Penitentiary courts have been ruling on the system of electronic supervision for 7 years, the amendment of 1 July added the penitentiary courts... sorry, added the courts of first instance as part of this system of sanctions or criminal policy of the state, and yet this project only harmonises the state's penitentiary policy in this regard. Doubts about the extension or question about the extension of the procedure. No, there will be no extended proceedings, we are convinced of that, because the penitentiary courts rule at the execution stage, not before the sentence, the High Sejm. And a question about the possibility of introducing regional courts as courts of first instance in the project. We cannot agree with this proposal because this is the first cause of problems related to the degradation of the electronic surveillance system. Our experience and all that we present to you today clearly indicate that the penitentiary courts are competently better prepared to judge in cases or in criminal properties than district courts. And that's what the statistics show that clearly state that the penitentiary courts want to use the electronic surveillance system, they consider this punishment effective, and the district courts don't. If we took this idea into account, we would in fact be returning to the first cause of the problem we want, High Sejm, to solve. Thank you so much for all those questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, directs the Government's draft law on amending the Law of the Penal Code and the Law of the Penal Code, contained in print No 218, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of items 4 and 5 of the agenda: 4. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Political Party Act and the Election Code Act (print No 222). 5. First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on political parties and certain other laws (prints No 249 and No 249-A). I ask Mr Piotr Misja to present the justification for the bill in print 222.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Parliamentaries! Poland needs cleanliness and transparency in the functioning of policies and politicians. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] If we are to restore the policy due to its respect, if we are to regain credibility as a political class, we must start with, honourable Members and honourable Members, from each other, we must start with the transparency and purity of the funding of our political parties. That is why we propose in our project: cheaper parties - cheaper parties are cheaper countries - reducing budget expenditure by at least half; more active parties: making public payments conditional on private funds; more substantive parties: abolishing the upper limit of the expert fund and banning public funding for advertising activities; more modern parties: facilitating online collections, micro-payments and crowdfunding; more pluralistic parties: reducing the thresholds for budgetary resources; clean and transparent parties: full transparency of party receipts and expenditure. Our bill will certainly be very happy for you, Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki, because thanks to him he will be able to start the process of collecting billions of zlotys effectively, and Mr. Finance Minister Paweł Szalamasz will be able to win the bet made from this speaker for the implementation of the planned budget revenue. However, the most satisfied will be Mr Jarosław Kaczyński and Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, because in addition to the savings that this project will bring to the state budget, which is about PLN 250 million, our project also assumes the absolute transparency of each paid and spent gold, and this should save tens of millions of zlotys spent on wiretapping and tracking people who pay their private money to political parties. Cleanliness and transparency! Members of the PIS, the Law and Justice - this is a good change! The draft law amending the Political Party Act and the Election Code aims to introduce new rules for raising funds for the fulfilment of the statutory obligations of political parties and to extend financial information to detail the sources of funds raised and the way in which political parties spend them. This draft law abolishes the automatic granting of subsidies from the State budget to promote other forms of financing for political parties' activities, inter alia. by obtaining contributions from natural persons, including online contributions. The amount of the State aid will depend on the effectiveness of the parties in obtaining private funds. In addition, the part of the public budget of the parties will be subject to new regulations defining the category of expenditure for which they can be allocated. This option will encourage parties to actively seek voters' votes, including between elections, and prevent irresponsible spending of subsidies granted to parties from the state budget. The wider funding of party activities by individuals will create new conditions for the development of Polish civil society. Individuals will be able to present their political preferences not only by voting in elections or by participating in the public debate, but also by providing regular funding for policy options that they believe deserve additional funding. The introduction of the need for active political parties to raise funds will create incentives for greater financial discipline and rationalisation of their own expenditure. Main amendments made by this draft law. The main change is to reduce the funding of the parties from the budget. Thanks to this project, it will be possible to save in one term minimum PLN 250 million. In the current financial situation of the country, this is considerable money: the 500+ programme, a very large budget deficit. We think that other expenses are much more urgent and that money can certainly be spent better, rather than unthinkablely spent on advertising by political parties. Second point. Depending on the effectiveness of obtaining private funds. We would like to introduce the principle of far-reaching evolution in the way we think about raising money from the state budget, in general raising money for political parties. We're offering you a solution for the gold. If political parties raise one million zlotys from their voters, the Treasury will add another million zlotys. It is not about collecting 10 million PLN from 10 people, but it is about collecting 1 million PLN from 1 million people. Third point. Encouragement to finance on a broader scale analyses, expert laws, public consultation and other substantive activities of the party. So far, very little money has been spent by political parties on substantive analyses, on legal expertise, as we have had an example, for example, in the first 100 days of government, by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The laws were very badly prepared. If political parties could spend more of their resources on analyses and lawyers and for public consultation, these laws would certainly be much better. We propose abolishing the limit here and we want political parties to be able to make absolutely unlimited use of experts, analyses and public consultations for which they would have to pay to organise them, for example. in other cities. We would also like to introduce a very important principle from our point of view, namely to limit absolutely the financing of widely understood advertising activities, all advertising activities from money raised from the state budget. The amounts that are spent by political parties in campaigns reach tens of millions of zlotys. We would therefore like budget money not to be spent on outdoor, television, radio, press, Internet. Of course, parties will still be able to spend money on these widely understood advertising, marketing activities, but only from the money they themselves will acquire. We are absolutely convinced that this will make this expenditure realistic, meeting real needs and very rational, and that it will not be wasted tens of millions of zlotys, money of all Poles, taxpayers. The fourth line. Support for modern forms of fundraising, including online fundraising and crowdfunding. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it's a simple necessity. The law that is currently in force is somewhat archaic in this matter. She was admitted 15 years ago. We perfectly understand that 15 years ago, the development of mobile telephony and the Internet was far more distant than it is today, and that is why these forms, which are so popular in the United States, Germany or the United Kingdom, should be promoted in Poland and we encourage you to pay particular attention to this, as this is conducive to the development of civil society. Another very important change for us, which, as we are convinced, will detonate the concretely well-concreted political scene today, that is to say, a reduction in the electoral thresholds which entitles us to receive funding. Currently, the parties' coalitions can benefit from budget money if they exceed the 6% threshold. We'd like to bring him down to 3%. Political parties may be refinanced if they exceed the 3% threshold. We'd like to set it at 1%. We are convinced that such actions will bring about some ideological freshness, freshness of thought and new faces in politics, and I think we agree that this generational change is increasingly needed. We are very committed to it, and we are convinced that this idea will make it possible. And, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing from our point of view. Total transparency and transparency issued by the State and, consequently, by the parties, measures, i.e. an absolute obligation to publish detailed financial statements, the paying persons concerned and the clearance of the party's expenditure in the Public Information Bulletin. We would like it to be visible. We would like to expand the powers of the State Election Commission so that everything in this matter is absolutely clean and transparent. Now, the thing about my group, on whose behalf I am pleased to present this bill. Many legends have already grown around modern finance in our election campaign, but as you know perfectly well, legends do not have much to do with reality. Cleanliness and transparency. We did not buy dresses for our wives, expensive suits, expensive wines, cigars or octopus. We didn't drive cars to Madrid or London. Every dollar the Poles paid us, we watched carefully before it was released. Believe me, honourable Members and honourable Members, the hard-earned money seems to be very carefully and rationally earned. I wish that, as politicians, we respect our constituents, we respect their money, so that we respect their public money in particular. That is why I would like to hand over to the marshal, I am pleased that he is Mr. Marshal Brudziński, our report, in which you will be able to find all the expenses we have incurred as a party since the uprising, both in the election campaign and in the political party, as well as in all the influences. You will find in this material every gold we have earned and every gold we have spent. You may now find this paper on the pages of the Public Information Bulletin, and I will now pass it on to the Marshal. You're welcome, Marshal. Cleanliness and transparency. Help us, honourable politicians, restore the faith of Poles in politics and politicians. Let's start this process with each other. Show the Poles, like the Modern, who you got the money from and what you spent it on. Gordon Gekko in the movie Wall Street said: The point is, ladies and gentlemen, that greed is good, greed is right, greed is effective. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Greed is not good, greed is not right. Greed is evil. This transparency is good. Cleanliness is right, and greed kills politicians and politicians. So today, as parliamentarians, we have a great opportunity, but also a specific duty, to eliminate greed from the lives of political parties, which I warmly wish, to the state, to all Poles and enemies of the Republic of Poland. Always follow the rules that we would like them to be applied by everyone and always. Let's start with each other and start today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u73	Thank you. I ask Mrs Agnieszka to come forward with a justification for the bill contained in prints 249 and 249-A. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u74	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I also have the honour to propose a bill of our law, a bill amending the law on political parties and some other laws, only a different one, because it concerns voters who do not have as wealthy wallets as the wealthy modern voters. If you don't mind, I'm gonna lean on this project of ours to ask for its support. The Member is an employee, and the employer is a nation. I'll quote the article. 4 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which clearly states: The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. This is why, as an employer, this nation should also co-decide on the remuneration, in part, of its employees, as Members. Here's the situation. The citizen pays to keep the party, but there's really no choice what kind of party he gives his money to and how that money is spent. Party subsidies are granted to parties which are already largely in parliament, which have exceeded the electoral threshold, parties which, in fact, have access to public money in order to promote their activities, even by means of the fact that Members have money to maintain parliamentary offices, even by having access to public media. By force, young parties, parties who have something to offer new to citizens, want to carry out their programmes, want to be on a political stage in some way, have no chance of doing so. In fact, they don't even stand a chance of having simple meetings with voters. Although citizens have the least confidence in politicians, politicians are a group with the lowest social trust, they really need to give them their money without any control. Even in such situations, when parties spend this money on a luxurious social life more than on activities that are related to their interests. We had a chance to find out about this during recent incidents, conversations at the Restaurant & Friends' Owl. It all contrasts very strongly with the situation e.g. NGOs, which about their income, by their 1% citizens' taxes, they must try, they must simply ask them, and this money is very often transferred, they are always transferred, as you know, to help sick people, children, when the state is unable to help them, or they support local development in areas or regions where this development is delayed, or for example. help create jobs. There is a contrast, as you will probably agree with me, very often political parties have already proved it, unfortunately they do not spend on such social activities, and they even spend on anti-social activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures speak for themselves. Almost 300 million is what the taxpayer will spend in this term of office to support political parties. What do the parties spend that money on? For hiring expensive PR companies, which later train politicians, as to how - to put it mildly - to deceive the electorate or manipulate the real intentions of the party. To put it simply, they train on such a subject as to make a politician who is incompetent, without value, without rules, but looks good, looks good, talks on TV so as to convince his constituents that he is wise, competent and cares about their fate. If you want, you can call it a good school. What else do the parties spend on? The parties are also spending money on polling. Very often polls made to order political parties are also tools of social manipulation and often forgery the true picture of the political scene. In a simple way, it's all about showing who's strong here, who's important, who's got support. Quite unsavory way of spending are various types of meetings, non-sculpture events, invisible to the eyes, which do not serve the good of voters, but rather often are a temptation to various backstage arrangements, which are also a temptation for politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, ordinary citizens very often have a greater sense of responsibility for the country's budget, very often they simply worry that we are growing a deficit, that many spending is not really right, necessary, they know well that the only way to save money is to look at them, to really spend it on important things. They know that it's actually the only way we can do something so we don't let this country go with the bags, talking a little colloquially. Our proposal will allow parties, active parties and future parties to resist the temptation to waste money and mismanagement, but, most importantly, it will be intended for citizens to decide for themselves what laws and programmes they want to support by financing them through political parties. The proposed law deals with changing the way the parties are financed to a very pro-Citizen-based voluntary system - I would like to stress - the contributions of the citizen, each citizen of the taxpayer. Of course, this is in line with the expectations of Poles, we had the chance to find out during the last referendum in 2015, where almost 2 million Poles were in favour of changing the way political parties were financed. Our club, the Kukiz club15, proposes a major change, which concerns the liquidation of the state subsidy. In return, it enables the citizen to decide what party he wants to support, whether he wants to support a party of his money at all. In the spirit of regaining control of the citizen's money, we propose to use a similar mechanism as it is currently used for 1%. for NGOs. What is the purpose of these changes? Firstly, giving a citizen the right to decide on what party he wants to put his money on. So, what he wants to support with taxes, what kind of program. As a result, political parties will be a bit forced to take an interest in their constituents not only once every four years, but for the entire four years. This solution will certainly increase political awareness, and that is what we want, we want to build this sense of citizenship, this political awareness, so that our citizens make choices really consciously. The next goal is to build the re-trust of Poles to the people who govern them, to whom they entrusted their country, their money. In simple words: if the taxpayer learns that his money is spent on, to put it mildly, politicians' fanaber, then - as was mentioned earlier, in the situation of talks at the Owl restaurant - he will simply not give up more such a party of his money. The important purpose of these changes is above all civic education on the basis of: I decide who I give money to, so I am interested in what the party spends money on, what it does and whether it really represents my interests. Moreover, this law will allow new parties, including local parties, who have not yet had the chance to take part, to have no chance on the political stage so that they can pass on their programmes, to discuss with their voters, to attract these new citizens' initiatives, because it will also be addressed to the parties that have just registered. In conclusion, the proposed law first of all introduces a voluntary tax write-off mechanism of PLN 5 per year from every full-time citizen registered in the Republic of Poland. Any citizen in the annual account will be able to indicate the lot to which he wishes to transfer 5 zlotys. It will be possible to support any party, as I have already mentioned, even the one that has just registered or the local party. It will also be a chance for small parties to take part in the local elections and have the opportunity to pass on their programmes to voters. We also propose leaving the possibility for citizens to make donations of 15 times their minimum salary, which is how this has happened so far. We also want the parties to spend this money on substantive activities, so in our proposal we want to remove the provision on the ceiling for funds transferred to the expert fund, while we want to increase the minimum amount of such funds from 5% to 15%. The last subsidy would be paid for 2016, i.e. in 2017 new rules would apply. We want the current parties that have benefited from the previous system to be able to repay their commitments during this transitional period, because we know that they were to end the habit of funding, but at the same time it is also an opportunity to go to the voters to talk to them about how to finance them to convince them of their ideas and programmes. I think a year is enough time for that. Our proposal will also have a positive impact on the state budget, especially now. This is a breakthrough budget, a budget that has not had such a deficit so far, so in the current situation - the fact that citizens trust so little in the current political class, and there are no consequences without reason, yes - it will certainly be a lot of savings, because before we catch up with this trust again and before citizens start passing these money on to politicians to whom they will gradually direct their trust, it will certainly not be such a big deal. This budget will gain, because in the next few years, I think, by gradually working on this trust, we will be able to reach the same level. Because the 5 zlotys we're calculating are exactly the same level as we are now, the subsidy that goes to the parties every year. Finally, I call on all the clubs, all the politicians, to support this project, to show responsibility not only for the budget but, above all, for restoring confidence in politicians, to the ruling people. It may be embarrassing, it can be feared, but actually, dear countries, Poles have already trusted us, so let them also decide what taxes are passed on to us so that we can deepen this trust. First of all, let us not force them to pay for parties whose world views are far away, with which they completely disagree. It's unfair and unfair. I would like to conclude by referring also to our group. We are the third strength in parliament. As you know very well, we have not benefited from subsidies, we have not benefited from grants, [[Applause]] Now we don't use it, and we don't want to use it, but we do, as you can see. Maybe it's not that easy because we don't have PR support. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, we have to read the laws ourselves, interpret them. We need to meet people, listen to them very carefully, what laws they need, what proposals they have. Finally, we must work on these laws ourselves and really devote a lot of time to it. And above all, we don't have any money and we don't pay any polls, so we're really suggesting what you're paying for. But that's what we listen to our citizens, listen to what they need. We are authentic and honest in the media, although sometimes word failures occur. We are competent and must continue to exercise this competence, as we must constantly expand this competence in order to know what law we want to create in Poland together with our citizens. First of all, we do not change the front of our actions or our programmes under the influence of poll posts. We're still faithful to what we promised the voters, and we're trying to do it, even though the polls are better, worse. But as we say, we don't really care. Our projects aren't written by law firms, PR companies, they're written by citizens. And most importantly, we don't spend money on any suspicious clueless meetings that actually provide an opportunity for different situations that are not quite clear and clear. If all parties began to see their role as such - as a mission, politicians would surely have very much confidence and I think that people would be willing to transfer money to our business. We ask you to take this challenge with us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u75	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the joint discussion on these items. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to refer to two draft laws: printing No 222 and printing No 249. High Izbo! A single court may rule on both of these projects. Well, both of these projects relate to the fact that political parties are actually deprived of subsidies from the state budget in various ways by doing so. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] In theory, one of the projects only limits such a subsidy, but it actually causes, it can completely deprive political parties of this subsidy. Thus, the Law and Justice stand and always stand in the position that democracy costs, the funding of political parties from the state budget is an investment in democracy, an investment in building a normal, peaceful, stable electoral system. What do both of these projects look like in this context? Just recall what they intend to do. But if we were to address them against the background of what is generally in force in Europe and in the world, we would have to say one thing: that they are going in a completely different direction than that which today is increasingly being approved, because in fact in most European countries there is a system in which, in one way or another, there are subsidies from the state budget, the funding of parties from the state budget is in force. It seems that only Malta from the countries of the European Union does not have such a system, and there are several countries outside the Union, such as Belarus, Ukraine, even such two examples, perhaps four countries in general, I only mention those two examples of countries which do not provide such forms of support for political parties. Also around 60% in the world more than 60% of countries prefer the party financing system from the state budget. Of course, there are enclaves of countries on the map of the world where such activities are not performed. Here it is enough to recall groups of countries in Africa, such as, I don't know, Sudan, Egypt... the surrounding countries, or even countries in Asia. There really is no funding for political parties from the state budget. Afghanistan, Syria - these are examples of countries where these things are not there. Only if this is an example of modernity, which you want to introduce into the political system in Poland, I already have some concerns about that. That's what it looks like in the world. But there are also clear opinions of many specialists in Poland, Polish professors, even those who say that this system is probably not the best, even say that it is a bad system, but they say: it is the only thing that can and should be maintained, so that normal political life in Poland can run, it must not destroy this system. This is said by those who are not in favour of the political parties at all, so to speak, and yet believe that this system of party financing from the state budget should be maintained. Of course you can discuss how to change it, and you can discuss what adjustments to make to it, how to seal certain things, because it really isn't well sealed, it has to be changed, but breaking it completely, destroying it completely doesn't come into account in our case at all. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now going to refer to these concrete proposals that we are discussing today. And so in the Modern project, as I said, there is a limitation, but a 50% reduction in subsidies, and let us remember that a few years ago we already have a similar limitation. So, in relation to what happened five years ago, this is going to be a situation where the funding of political parties will decrease by 75% if we adopt the Modern Project. The second feature of this project is the dependence on the full amount of subsidies from the meeting in the year preceding the payment of the subsidy from individuals equal to the amount of the subsidy. This means that, as I said, this may lead to the elimination of subsidies or to a significant, already very significant limitation of subsidies, but depends on how much funds the parties receive from individuals. In this respect, Modern proposes another change - it suggests that we do not, as it is today, about 28 thousand. PLN could be paid into political parties, but 50,000. PLN and 50,000. for the electoral fund. So the obvious promotion of those environments that want and will want to buy laws. Besides, such a charge occurs immediately when our electoral system is changed, of course, not only from me, from our lips, but also from the mouths of many specialists who deal with this problem. Reduction by 50% Plus, because let's remember that, too, I don't know, I don't think that sounded like what you said... You also propose a 50% reduction in the subjective grant for political parties. This is another segment of savings, as you're trying to call it. On the other hand, with regard to the Kukiz project15, we already have an immediate elimination of subsidies for political parties. In return, the projectors propose that the tax payer of income tax on natural persons who are Polish citizens once a year under the procedure laid down in the Income Tax Act may transfer the 5 zloty tax calculated in accordance with the PIT Act to a political party of his choice. What do both projects really do? They're definitely... They introduce a lack of stability in public life. Any change that destabilizes public life should be negatively assessed by us. However, these projects contain exactly this kind of proposals. Thus, they are bringing something completely unbelievable, because they are launching a permanent election campaign that lasts practically throughout the calendar year. The only difference is that the increase in this election campaign will continue according to the Modern Project from September to December, and according to the Kukiz project15 - from January to April. Why? Because the Modern wants this subsidy which the party will receive from the State to make conditional on the amount paid by the citizens by the end of the year preceding the payment of this subsidy. This means that you will have to build an election campaign, increase it immediately after your vacation and so from September about to start running it, and lead it to December. In the Kukiz project15, however, we are talking about income tax write-off. Of course, it's the way they campaign... Anyway, comparison to this system, 1% For associations, it's completely unauthorized, but that's how you wrote it down. And then the campaign starts in January, so that before [[♪ The bell ♪]] the end, which is before April, to be able to make it. Mr. Marshal, let me extend it for a minute, if you don't mind. I promise, from my second speech, I'll give you two minutes or even three, because there's only a few words to say. High Izbo! So the effect of running such a permanent election campaign within... After all, it will be a fight for life for political parties. Political parties will have to fight. You say: conduct a dialogue with the public. [[Applause]] This dialogue with society... [[Voice from the room: That's it! That's it!]] ... Law and Justice continues to lead and does not need such incentives as you are creating at the moment. But if so, then you should consistently request that there be elections every year. Well, it's kind of more honest and sensible every year elections, all year round election campaigns, practically a revolution, an ongoing revolution in the country. Congratulations on your ideas. But we also have additional consequences. Of course, the additional consequence of the Modern project is further support for the banking sector - I do not have time to explain what it is - but also, jokingly speaking, sanctioning... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, time!]] ...the purchase of alcohols, the gifts you wish to present... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...to the voters who will pay. It's a completely ridiculous idea. Unfortunately, in an accident... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ... The consequences are even more serious, because, as you said, the pro-Citizen project deprives several groups of citizens' rights. It deprives farmers of their civil rights, deprives non-residents of their civil rights within the meaning of the PIT Act and persons whose income is entirely free. So you understand citizenship to deprive some of the citizens of their civil rights? I wouldn't have dared to name this project that way under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. You asked for two minutes. I've taken these two minutes into account, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u78	Thank you very much. So only in the last sentence Let me just say that there are certain advantages in all of this. That transparency you were talking about... Okay, this has to be done, this has to be done. We also need to make a fund...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u80	...change the rules of contributions to the expert fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u82	Okay, as far as we're concerned, we have to do this, we have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u83	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u84	But those pros can't take the edge off the scales. I therefore request that these projects be rejected at first reading. [[Voice from the room: You can work in the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u85	Thank you, and I'm counting on you to give that time in your next speech. Thank you kindly. Please take the floor of Mr Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform. Mrs Gabriela, I am so sorry. [[Marshal, is there one ten-minute to both?]] Yeah, yeah. I don't see a Member. There it is. Excuse me, Member. And I'm so sorry for the mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I identify very well with my gender and emanation in the Polish language expressed in the name, so that I thank you for the correction. I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Civic Platform with regard to the proposed draft laws related to the revision of the current system of financing political parties. These demands for the change of the current system due to the climate also social, but also such an intensive public debate appear regularly above all, but not only in this House, and it can be said that they relate to two blocks of issues. One relates to whether the costs of political parties should be covered by private funds, donations from members and sympathizers or from the state budget. The second, however, sees this justification and a condition of transparency in state funding under strict control. Also now, the proposed projects and these changes to the projects are related to these issues, although they are not so radically different, they consist of different elements. This debate, it must be stressed, is not only about Poland, it is... it is going on in public space, and it is not only European, where we are dealing with various models of funding. I am addressing a fellow Member of the PIS. It is not true that only Belarus, for example [[Applause]] in the UK, it is mostly financed by private donations. The current system of party financing, after a long discussion, was introduced in 2001. And the funding was based on public funds transferred to the activities of the parties in the form of so-called. grants for statutory purposes. At the same time, other sources of funding have been significantly reduced for the sake of transparency, among others. completely prohibiting financing by legal persons. From this point on, the parties could be financed by membership contributions, donations in a strictly limited amount. It is also worth noting that public collections have been banned and that the parties have been obliged to set up an expert fund, which was also mentioned today, to which they should allocate between 5% and 15% in their current legal state. grants received. At the same time, it was established that subsidies could be granted to parties which at national level received at least 3% in the elections to the Sejm. validly cast votes and, in the case of coalitions, 6% respectively. The financing scheme was subject to adjustments but only to the amount of subsidies. Immediately after the introduction of funding from the state budget, the decision to temporarily reduce subsidies in 2002 and 2003 was taken in the face of a very serious criticism of the amounts which were considered to be too generous and not responding to genuine needs. In 2009, the calculation algorithm was remodeled, but this work was not completed. But the Civic Platform was then persuaded to vote to cut subsidies by half - the Civic Platform, which is generally in favour of non-funding parties from the state budget. This subsidy was then reduced from around 114 million per year to 54 million, which is now approximately at a similar level. The proposal for a law amending the law notified by Members of the club Moderna introduces new rules for raising funds for the fulfilment of statutory obligations and extends financial information by detailing the sources and the way political parties spend their money. These are precisely the demands and recommendations of both the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission to increase financial transparency, and the Batory Foundation presented similar analyses and recommendations. So here we are not dealing with some epochal modern extrasolutions, but with solutions and proposals that are currently being proposed or functioning in other countries. First of all, the project provides for a minimum of half of the state budget funding to be reduced, making it conditional, as has already been mentioned, on the amount of aid received from private resources, while at the same time reducing, as we accept with satisfaction, the threshold for receiving subsidies to 1% respectively. and 3% , making budget resources available also to smaller groups that do not have such a great deal of support. Of course, this transparency is called for both the detail of the reports and the fact that these accounts of expenditure should appear in the Public Information Bulletin. The Civic Platform, as is well known - and why it has repeatedly, unlike others, expressed not only verbally - is a supporter of the abolition or at least a significant reduction in the funding of political parties from the budget to increase the impact of citizens and the transparency of party finances. However, it cannot accept solutions preferring so-called. parties for the rich, i.e. those proposed in this project by the modern increase in the limit of contributions to the party electoral fund and contributions to the electoral committee from voters. We believe that this amount will be increased to 50,000. PLN, and in the case of candidates for Members, Senator, President and Member of the European Parliament - from 45 times the minimum wage to 125 thousand. zł is unnecessary and preferring a wealthier electorate. The subject of the next draft law is the introduction of a mechanism for financing political parties from the state budget, because it is not true that this eliminates funding from the state budget. No, the party, the Kukiz club15, calls for a change in the way of funding from the state budget - from taxpayers' pockets, only in another form - from automatic donations, like in the case of a public benefit organisation, except that it will not be a percentage, but a sum of PLN 5 from the taxpayer. As in the case of a write-off to non-governmental organisations, the taxable person will be able to indicate the lot or not to indicate it. It should be noted that this option is limited only to taxpayers of income tax, and this has an impact because, given the different electorate, there is no possibility of a taxpayer who does not pay income tax and is a natural electorate, e.g. farmers. But participating in this grant... The club expects that, over time, this subsidy indicated by taxpayers will reach the level that it is now, i.e. it can be expected that measures which are not indicated by the taxpayer and addressed to the political party it chooses will in fact remain in the state budget, and as you indicate in the explanatory memorandum, this is a double preference for the governing party, because in this way it is financed by resources, as you have defined: it is double-favorite, because in addition to subsidies it has government resources, and just like in the UK - which is not true, but this is another issue - it should be excluded from such subsidies. I think it's a proposal that's supposed to be democratic and empowering. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the voter, after all, will not meet these criteria, because above all, you say that small parties and organisations cannot be financed. informally, but in the project you are only talking about political parties, so only political parties can be supported in this way. In addition, this five gold copy... I have this question: give me 5 zł, once there was: give me 2 zł, I'll read it, now 5 zł, I promise you... What do I promise you? [[You'd better take it.]] You just have to pay attention to how it can be used. In addition, it will draw away the political debate, the substance of the debate, in favour of a clean collection. However, it is further public funding from taxpayers' money, only in a different form. [[But voluntary.]] Therefore, the Civic Platform in the case of the club's project will be happy to participate in the further debate on this subject with these conditions or with the conditions I have mentioned, and the solution proposed by Kukiz15 for these reasons, which I mentioned, is that this solution does not in fact meet your objectives, perhaps it should be worked out on others, will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u87	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the election campaign, all candidates focused around Paweł Kukiza emphasized the need to change the Polish political system. We were talking about one-mandate electoral districts, we were talking about the Member's cancellation institution, we were talking about changing the rules for financing political parties. There are many terms that can be defined in our political system, but the partyocracy is probably the most accurate and readable term. The way the party is financed affects the functioning of the whole system, affects the quality of Polish political life. From this perspective, the proposal to amend the Modern Law is really interesting. Because of the changes proposed in it, parties referring to the interests of the richest citizens will be favored. Citizens who are willing to pay up to 50,000 once to the party. zł. Which party do you think will benefit most from this? It's easy to tear your robes apart, scream about assassinations, fight for democracy threatened by the forces of evil, but when it comes to serious talk about money, the mask falls down and you can see for a moment the real face, the real business and the real vision of the state a la Moderna. In a situation where trust in politicians claims only 20% of society, forcing them to fund parties seems at least morally questionable. The modern one goes a step further: it accepts the valuation of citizens' votes. And so the draft Modern Law proposes that the vote be cast on the party, which reached less than 5% general support, it was worth it 2.89 zł, vote in favour of the party from 5% to 10% PLN 2,31 from 10% 20% to PLN 2,02 and from 20% to 30% PLN 1,31 and above 30% - only PLN 0,44. On the other hand, this proposal provides for the possibility for political parties to hand over gifts to persons paying no more than 10% the value of the deposit. The draft contains the following very interesting wording: The political party develops and makes available on the website where the payments are collected, the rules for the acceptance of payments. The rules of procedure may provide for the transfer by the lot to persons paying gifts, including items customarily used for advertising or promotional purposes, of a value not exceeding 10% deposits. Such a provision is extremely free, as it does not restrict the kind of gifts given exclusively to objects customarily used for advertising or promotional purposes, but places them in a wider category of possibilities available. So we can imagine the following situation: a friendly bank asks its employee to make a deposit of 50,000. Evil in favor of a party with which, let's say, he sympathizes. The employee pays these funds, of course already as a natural person, as a sympathizer, and in exchange for the trouble he receives a gift worth 5 thousand. zł. Kukiz, 15 fights the partyocratry. We were the only ones who gave up subsidies from the state budget. We believe that if someone is to fund an initiative, it is only by their own free will. We must rebuild the trust of Poles by example. Kukiz.15 proposes to replace the budget subsidy with a tax write-down of PLN 5 on similar terms as a 1% write-down a tax on the organisation of public benefit. This is a fair and transparent solution. It stresses voluntaryity and can affect the activation of citizens. It will give them the sense that politicians eventually depend on them as well, on voters. As long as the Poles live in the belief that politicians are some sort of caste of the chosen ones from society, the whole country will be losing for so long. You don't want to agree to JOWs. At least give people this substitute for power, not a complicated system of payment that only bankers will understand and use. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u89	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Rafał Wójcikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer in a few words to the design of our competitors, to the Modern Project, because our project, as you know, is the best in the world and there are no drawbacks, so there is nothing to criticize. [[Applause]] With regard to the Modern Members' proposal, it assumes that in order for the parties to receive subsidies, they should receive an annual amount from donors at least equal to the subsidies due to them. In this connection, it is somewhat similar to an old project and some of the past actions of a Member called Janusz Palikot, who also showed abundant money from students, pensioners, who paid it massively into his campaign. [[Applause]] I wouldn't want this project that presents Modernity to lead to that. And now. The project allows online payments - I will justify it - to the party fund, which means... And now the question is whether it means that you can also pay with payment cards. And if you can pay with payment cards, you can also pay with cards that are called prepaid. And if you can pay with cards like this, they're bearer cards. Therefore, such cards, even though they are stopped by KNF, are available on the market. As you know, the spending limit for such a card is 10,000, at least 10,000. zł. And I figured that for Modern according to my own project to receive a subsidy like from the state budget, it would suffice to buy 150 cards on Allegro and we have a matter of subsidies settled. So it can't be like that, can it? Because 150 cards on Allegro cost less than 5,000. $5,000, then. The problem of subsidies could be dealt with. I ask you to answer whether you predicted in your project that prepaid cards could - not the state, some other political party - solve the problem of donors and subsidies to the party. The second point is the maximum amount provided by individuals. Indeed, 125,000. Well, it's 50,000. The citizens will tell, Janusz Palikot has already proved that if students try, they will pay 50,000. They're gonna pay. [[And retirees, and retirees.]] Retired and retired. [[Applause]] On the other hand, who will be able to afford $125,000 if he wants to run for Sejm, ladies and gentlemen? I understand that citizens will massively establish housing, right, and homes, just to participate in the world of democracy and be able to run. And what is equal, what is competition? Ladies and gentlemen, I think you've overstepped your bounds a little bit. Maybe we're not as rich as you guys, you don't have a problem with that, but we'd have a problem with that... And then there's the question of these gifts, these gifts that are included. I honestly don't understand why these gifts are in your project. We'll work on it. [[Exactly.]] Is that what you're suggesting, because a gift suggests some kind of corruption, right? So the question is, is it already on loss that we put the element of corruption in the bill, or is this some kind of lapsus, I don't know, a mistake? As I said, I will not justify our project in detail, because he is the best in the world and he is so pro-Citizen and democratic. One example. Donald Trump spent $2 million on the campaign, and he's the first, yes, in the rankings right now. And it's not about the money. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about right, it's about arguments, it's not about money. And you guys talk all the time and prove that it's all about money in politics. We, as Kukiz's movement, are an animal that is not there because we have no money, and we are in this parliament. We're the third power. And how did that happen? A party without money. We spent $400,000 on the whole campaign. zł. Do you know how much that is? In the Modern project, even four people would fold and it would already be 450. Imagine that. [[Applause]] We're an animal that doesn't exist. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we approach money-only politics, then citizens will judge us as they judge us in the Seym at the moment, which means we will be more associated with the circus, not with the Seym. So I'm really asking you to reflect. We propose that both projects be put on the committee because it is worth working on a project that will be as civic as possible and will talk as little about money as possible and will talk about values and citizens as much as possible. That's why we're asking both projects to be on the committee. For example, we may be able to develop one joint project that would make sense. We ask the governing party to allow citizens and their representatives to work on a citizens' project of choice and democracy, not to maintain this monopoly on money and, in principle, on power, not even allowing us to work on such a project. Because I understand you may be against it, but the motion for rejection at first reading is, to put it mildly, to show who has the power, right? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u91	Thank you. And there's a minute left for Mr Wojciech Bakun. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a... Actually, there's only one minute left. I would like to clarify a point with regard to Members of the Law and Justice, because the Member has just made it clear that taking care of voters throughout the year is beyond the possibilities of the PiS. That's what this change is all about. This isn't about fighting for this money, fighting for this grant, because right now this money is being granted automatically. We want in our project, 5 PLN as a copy, to make the citizen have this decision, the possibility of deciding which party he wants to use this money for. This is not about fighting and running a campaign, another election campaign, making love, but about giving this decision to citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no, there's no mom, there's no hidden targets, right? As for the Member of the Civic Platform, yes, I agree that we are not changing our funding project, it will continue to be budget funding, but as I just said, it is a funding in which the citizen has this decision-making. The rest, I think, I'll ask in questions. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u93	In the procedure of correcting Mr Grzegorz Schreiber. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to correct the words of a Member who misunderstood my statement. Mr President, I did not say that PiS could not afford to pursue voters throughout the electoral year. On the contrary, I said that we do not have a problem with this, that we have contact with the voter all year round and we do not need such incentives to contact the voter. That's what I said, and you misunderstood me, and I'm straightening it up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Parliamentary Club. [[I'd like an answer.]] [[But why?]] [[What do you want him to straighten out?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u96	No, sir, I did not misunderstand. I know you can afford it because you have a powerful subsidy. You can afford to hire PR companies that will do this all year for you, but that's not the point, that's not the logic of our bill. We don't want to fight for voters with the election sausage that you guys went overboard with in the campaign. We want to fight with substantive work, and believe me, work can defend itself all year round. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u97	Thank you very much. Now you have a voice for Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Messenger Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every day, every day, 365 days a year, 8,000. public benefit organisations are working hard to obtain financial support for their activities. Political parties are clearly not public benefit organisations, and I am not talking about their legal status here, because with a light hand, without asking permission, they live from money taken from Poles. Is that how it's supposed to be? Why are we in the public domain? What is the point of your presence in the Seym, Mr Kaczyński? The same question applies to all of us. If we assume that the aim of our work is the common good, the good of Poland, the good of Poles, then why we consider ourselves better than the mentioned 8 thousand. organization? Why are we reaching out for taxpayers' money, considering that they are simply ours? Well, that money doesn't belong to us. You've created a sick and demoralizing system, becoming the main beneficiaries of it. And we can live in a modern country, we can live in a country where political parties will not fight for media stools and companies of the Treasury. The funding of the parties from the money taken from Polish families destroyed the idea of public service. It's not service anymore, it's a son's. The word "party" has become synonymous with your own interests, you are creating a host of career-makers and faithful soldiers, because you know that by taking money out of the budget, you will be able to pay your wages. What do we want? We want the parties to verify the purpose of their existence not only every four years, not only when they organize an expensive plebiscite, but every day, fighting for the support of their constituents. Political parties, if they want to function, have to verify the validity of their existence, first of all they have to work in substance. The current law limits the expenditure on expertise. Political parties may spend up to 15% on reports, studies and expertise your budget. Effect? Although in the summer of 2015, no party was prepared for the migration crisis, there were no smart solutions, no studies, no expertise. In return, a whole bunch of smart people were talking nonsense for money taken out of their pockets by Poles. Let's change that. Piotr Misilo presented the proposals of the Modern in quite detail. I'll remind you of the most important points. We propose to halve the state subsidy for political parties. In the perspective of 4 years, this means more than PLN 200 million in savings. By the way, Prime Minister, if you had more than PLN 200 million at your disposal, would you spend it first on party activists, or do you see other needs? We want the support from the state's budget to depend on the amount of resources that the political party will raise independently from its supporters and potential voters. We want the money from the budget to be spent only on substantive activities, the financing of party events, and the spectacular conventions of taxpayers' money are simply unethical. You're afraid of a case from shady businessmen, as President Duda said. So do we, which is why we want the full transparency of each paid and spent gold. The modern, unlike you, financed the campaign entirely from the private money of its sympathizers. 6,000. people voluntarily supported our initiative. Mr Misilo... [[Voice from the hall: What about the credit?]] Yeah, and the credit that we took with our full knowledge that we were going to be paying off this loan. Mr Misilo provided the marshal with a complete list of our contributions and resources. We're not afraid of transparency. We don't have the stench of an affair. Amber Gold, Art-B, FOZZ and SKOK. And above you? We call for full transparency of political parties' finances, payment and expenditure registers. This is what it takes to be honest with Poles. I hear you're talking to Poles. All public opinion polls, conducted by the same centers that you are so eager to quote, indicate that 75% Poles want to change the way the party is financed. That is the expectation of Poles. If you reject this voice, you will show us one thing: that you do not want to talk to Poles, you create only appearances of conversation, you only want to give us commands. The transparency system we want to introduce works and works in the United States, where politicians are much closer to voters than politicians in Poland. But the opinion of the Polish Prime Minister about American politicians has recently been known, they are said to be underinformed. I would like to say a few words to the rapporteur, Mrs Agnieszka Chat. You say that a modern party is for rich people, other parties will be harder to raise funds to support. Madam President, a good initiative will always find support in society, as example are social initiatives, such as the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. Thousands of small contributions create the sum, and in this report you see it. Deposits of several zlotys per person, average - less than 90 zlotys. These payments were received during the election campaign. We have proven that such support can be obtained, because in this way sympathizers can show the support of the party. Your proposal is still public funding, no savings. In fact, you are not showing these savings for the budget, and our intention is to reduce the budget burden. An example is Italy, the tax write-off supporting the parties operates in Italy. In 2014, 16 000 benefited from this option. 30 million taxpayers. This also shows that this solution is not effective. Your proposal extends budget support to electoral committees, city and local government movements. I understand your amendment because you are not a party. In this way you could de facto use the tax money, but we ask you to support our request. We also extend funding to smaller parties, lowering the threshold to 1%. I'm sure we agree on one thing. There is no permission for us to spend public money on widely understood marketing, on rich conventions, balloons, alcohol, expensive travels abroad. We impose a minimum, not a maximum limit on the expert fund. I will also refer to Mr Law and Justice's statement. You say that 100 percent of private funding is in several countries in Europe. Yes, these are the countries of Belarus, Ukraine and Malta. We do not want to be among them, so we propose a mixed system that works all over the world. Mixed system. You didn't surprise me with your comment, so-called. The stable electoral system is supported by the old parties. It's the further concreteing of the political scene by you. Our reduction in threshold to 1% causes diversification, pluralism on the political stage, because we want to allow freshness, newness. Your argument is: we've already reduced subsidies. Yeah, but you're still spending a few dozen million zlotys on marketing. I'll just remind you of 7 million PLN for TV spots only. We say stop, no more spending. We emphasize transparency and transparency very strongly. So why all the insinuations about buying bills? It is we who are the first to pay attention to reporting each paid and spent gold that will determine further subsidies. Mr President, I understand that the Law and Justice are satisfied with the current situation. I mean, the transfer's gonna go in. 30 million PLN. All you have to do is take an apparent interest in your constituents once every four years. 100 days of government Prime Minister Beata Szydło has shown that the PiS Club is introducing quite unprepared laws that did not have a public consultation that did not see a pen of experts. Modern proposes abolishing the upper limit for expertise, ordering money to be spent on expertise, on programs, for public consultation. [[And that's good.]] And we ask you very much to support this request if you think it's good. I would like to refer to the speech of Mr Kukiz, Mr Masłowski, a Member of the Kukiz Group. I find it difficult to relate to your insinuation, sometimes even fantasy. I'll only comment on one statement from you. When we talk about gifts, we talk about stickers, we talk about gadgets like mascots, which are very well seen among voters, sympathizers also your Kukiz group15. Mr Wojciech Bakun. Mr President, the current law does not give us the possibility to deposit the card without identification. Please read the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! I'll finish, literally two sentences. You're saying 400,000. PLN you spent on an election campaign, while the PKW informs that almost PLN 3 million. You say we're not that rich. Mr President, we do not know because you have not shown how rich you are. We're the ones who showed how much money we got, how much we spent. [[But so are we.]] We showed a full report of the Watchdog organization. Today we gave this report to the marshal. We encourage you to imitate such actions. Ladies and gentlemen! The Modern Club calls on all those for whom elementary honesty towards Poles is important to support changes in the system of financing political parties. I ask you to refer the bill to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u99	Thank you very much. The Modern Club has run out of time. Mr Eugeniusz Krópotek, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The issue of funding political parties or changes in electoral law has been emerging since a few terms. We can say something about this together with Mr Schreiber, because we are already veterans in these speeches. [[Voice from the room: That's enough.]] High Seym! I am not surprised by Kukiz's proposal15, because both in the presidential campaign and in the parliamentary campaign, the theme of Kukiz's campaign15 was: to blow up this system. [[Applause]] [[And PSL.]] That was the truth. Therefore, these proposals do not surprise me. I only have such good advice as an experienced parliamentarians. Well, first of all, you have to change the argument, because if you say in your own speech that you're concerned about the state budget, then something's not right. After all, this 5 PLN will be a deduction from income tax, i.e. from revenue to the state budget, therefore this is an impossible argument. And secondly, remember what has already been said here, that not all are taxpayers of income tax. Now, of course, there can always be a counterargument, so let's say. farmers pay income tax. And we say, there you go, they can pay income tax, but then you have to delete the agricultural tax. Do you want them double-paying? [[But it's from the ground.]] If we delete the agricultural tax, the municipal authorities will claim damage to the agricultural tax receipts. Therefore, such a project cannot be concluded. And that concludes his criticism. In this context, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support the proposal to reject this project at first reading. Now I'm going to move on to the Modern Project. I am surprised here because, as far as I understand Kukiz's populism15, what you have just presented here... Learn populism from Modern, learn it, really. [[We're learning.]] I listened to it with amazement and rather hoped that the modern club, which is actually made for modernity, for liberal changes and which suddenly falls into such populism that I would not expect... [[The voice from the hall: You have to be the master of populism to say it.]] And I know you can afford more intellectual effort. That's by the way. We can't support your project, we can't support it for different reasons, also those that are disguised in your project, which you're trying to defend, and which are going to come out sooner or later. [[Tell me.]] These are included in these proposals which increase the limits, these individual limits. Yeah, there's a lot of power behind you guys who have a lot of money, and like somebody said, sometimes we should all fold in to match one of your employers. That's by the way. Therefore, no, we will not support such a project. I know, the Civic Platform, under the influence of the polls in the previous term, in the two previous terms of office, has asked for a reduction and even a cut in funding from the budget. Let me remind you that several years ago, the predecessors, including the Civic Platform, the predecessors of the Freedom Union, the AWS and the left, banned the political parties from doing business and introduced subsidies from the state budget. And now we're starting to figure things out again in different ways. We hope that both projects will be where they belong, because they do not serve greater transparency at all, even the other way around - they will only give much more freedom to combine the financing of political parties, and secondly, as in the Modern Project, to force voters to make a possible donation to the political party. As I said at the outset, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote against both projects. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u101	Thank you very much. 27 Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for one minute. [[Can I have one and a half, please?]] Please, as the first Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Mr. Marshal, can't one and a half minutes?]] One minute. [[1.5!]] There is no Member. Therefore, Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u102	Thank you very much. My comments will be on both projects, which want to eliminate or significantly reduce the funding of political parties from the budget. Political parties are in democratic systems of good and public value and need to be supported. It is important to respond to criticism of their functioning, but not by eliminating budget financing and privatising parties. It is only the budget that provides public control of the spending of these funds by parties and relative political stability. I have three questions: Can the Sejm support a draft introducing a tax write-off on a selected party which directly violates at least three provisions of the Constitution - Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2, which says: public authorities cannot obtain information about citizens other than necessary in a democratic legal state... [[But the surveillance bill...]] ...art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7: no one must be obliged by public authorities to reveal his worldview, art. 96 and Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 97, who's talking about secret elections? Wanting to use a copy [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, it means the need to disclose your personal data to the tax officer, and the identification of the supported political party actually declassifies the political preferences of the supporting person, and gives the authority a map of political support, including opposition, and facilitates possible harassment of their donors...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u103	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u104	...who will fear such support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u105	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. [[I can't fit.]] We'll see.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has already been said here that it was the Civic Platform in 2013 that proposed the complete elimination of party financing from the state budget. Previously, grants for the party were cut by half. Today, the Modern Party assumes, I quote from the justification of the project, that the amount of the State subsidy is to be dependent on the effectiveness of the party in obtaining private funds. So you would like to make the amount of the grant from the state budget conditional on the amount of funds yourself acquired by the party? In practice, this solution is beneficial almost exclusively for those groups that can obtain funding from wealthy supporters. So this one has the power who has the money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Modern proposals can be a simple way to make political parties independent of the influence of various types of interest groups. Is it therefore considered not only to publish reports on the spending of the funds raised, but also to document and make public the detailed sources of their collection? What mechanisms of control of these sources are assumed by applicants...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u108	...if you're talking about such transparency?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u109	Thank you very much. Now you ask Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions about the Modern Members' proposal, not because we do not support it or agree with it. We are very pleased that the debate on party funding has begun in Parliament, but we do not take it without reflection. We would like to clarify a few things, among others. whether you have estimated the increase in expenditure in this first threshold to 5%. You've halved your funding from the budget, but consider that you've also lowered the threshold, which is one vote for a party with more than 1%. , and not exceeding 5% It will cost a lot more than one vote, as in the case of Law and Justice, when it exceeds 30%. That's one question. Second question. In the case of the fourth threshold, you reduced funding for one vote from 2.31 to 1.31. This isn't a half-assed inheritance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What was the target of a few dozen percent reduction rather than 50% of this funding? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u111	Thank you very much. Now you ask Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicants at the Modern Club is: Why do you even introduce thresholds in the financing of political parties, which is related to the fact that funding is intended to depend on the number of votes won in the elections at all? After all, political parties, speaking in language... Who's accusing populism here? Mr Troubles. ...populists who learn have the same stomachs and basically the salaries of their boards cost them the same. So why depend on it at all, the money, the number of votes or seats won, or the percentage of votes? Maybe we can just set an amount equal for each party, a few million each, and everyone will be happy, no matter how many votes they win. If our voluntary proposals are bad, then it's a vagina. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u113	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a fact, it's pure truth - I know it - it's because we've been tracking political life - we've been debating how political parties are financed every now and then about how we're spending money on it. I think time is moving forward, there are additional requirements, additional realities. These issues need to be worked on, but do not exceed the relevant framework for knowledge and experience gained in other countries as well. I have this question for the applicants: Why do we propose a five-gold copy? It doesn't matter if it's 5 zlotys or 6 zlotys. After all, in my opinion, we would like Poles to determine what voting preferences they have, which party each of us will vote for. I think [[♪ The bell ♪]] financing a political party is not the same as transferring 1% as part of a write-down to a social organization. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u115	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the bill submitted by the Modern. The project assumes that subsidies will only be paid if donations are paid to the party. How do you think the parties that address their programmes to the poorest people who, for obvious reasons, cannot afford to do so, even the smallest donations, would be able to raise funds? If you accept your project, even if you have very strong public support, you will not have the means to operate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u117	Thank you very much. Now Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the applicants from Modern. Is it true that this is really about ending fiction and financial loosening of political parties in our country? Mostly I'm talking about the giant money spent very thoughtlessly, on the outdoor, on advertising spots broadcasted on various televisions, when it's hardly anyone who's thinking about content, because spending not their money really doesn't hurt. Money from the budget is an excellent way to live without responsibility. I have a question for you from the Kukiz Group15. You criticize the proposals to spend money on training future Members or Members present. Knowledge costs money. I think it's very irresponsible, because it's not money being thrown into the mud. An evil, uneducated Member is bad for all of us, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As you can see now in Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u119	Thank you very much. I do not see Mrs Barbara Chrobak in the Chamber. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions and at the same time a request to consider whether we are violating international law. In particular, I'm directing this to the Kukiz club15. Developed by the OSCE and the Venice Commission, i.e. the Council of Europe consultative body, a set of recommendations on regulating the functioning of political parties, explicitly recommends that legislators seek a balance between public funding and private funding. The proposal to liquidate financing is strongly opposed to European practice. What are some examples of the Kukiz club15? Second observation. The complete elimination of subsidies in a straight line leads to the financing of the parties by wealthy entrepreneurs. Is that what Mr Kukiz15 wants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u121	Thank you very much. Now Mr Paweł Bejda, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every now and then, the Sejm's discussion is about funding political parties. If this is to seal expenditure, to improve the quality of public life, of course, yes, but if this is only about the existence of media political parties and confusion again in the heads of Poles, then absolutely not. The literature shows that in practice donations are often not a voluntary and selfless form of support for political parties, especially in comparison with donations made to political parties during election campaigns. Hence my question - and here at the same time a great concern - to applicants: Do you realize that [[♪ The bell ♪]] With such an amendment, you slowly hand over the parties to the great financiers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. She's not here. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants of the Modern Party to explain. Do they believe that the right to political representation, including parliamentary representation, has only wealthy citizens of our country or supported by and dependent on the environments of wealthy people? In your opinion, should low income people be restricted by this law and their political rights? Payments, donations from citizens depend on their wealth and the resources at the party's disposal have a significant impact on the effectiveness of their activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u125	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Is it true that the current legal framework allows taxpayers' money to burn out to nothing that doesn't bring spots, billboards in electoral campaigns and doesn't motivate political parties to do any programming work because it's not regulated in any way? And is it really so that political parties in Poland almost do not spend money on programming, content, for better solutions? And another question to the applicant, Mr Misia. Is it so that the Modern proposal introduces full transparency when it comes to financing all political parties in Poland, and that there will be no doubt that any group is financed from unknown sources, that such issues will no longer be raised, e.g. when a convention of a party is being held and they are being preached [[♪ The bell ♪]] views contrary to the Polish state's reason, e.g. on the recognition of separatist republics in Donbas or the occupation of Crimea by Russia? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u127	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u128	I asked the applicant from my Modern Club a question about whether there is a sense that very many groups speak about the transparency of their finances and would like to show it. On the other hand, I wanted to know if you have any data on how many groups have given their calculations on expenditure and external income to entities, e.g. like Watchdog. How many of them were asked and responded positively to this appeal in order to show what they were actually spending their money on? That's the first question. Secondly, could you explain to me why it has been so long for political parties to believe that there should be a limit to spending on experts, which is for good regulation, while allowing huge amounts to be spent, because, let me remind you, this is 7 million in the last campaign in the case of Law and Justice, on television spots, without any restrictions? What could be the motivation from the social good side, such actions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15. Now it's 16... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My entire speech will be addressed to the Modern Party and will concern its project. The mask has fallen - you create or your project allows you to create a party corporation, corporations for the rich. After all, there is no doubt here that one mechanism for one is directly referred to your wealthy supporters, so let's call it, who finance you so that Poland is only for the wealthy. There is no care here for ordinary people who have trouble surviving until the first. That's one thing. The second thing - a mechanism that boils down to paying for lots that have reached 1% And there's almost 3 zlotys for the vote, this is the next business. We're making some kind of party that's gonna make a donation despite a hopeless election result. Are your actions moving towards work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Party corporations? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u132	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Here are my questions. Will the mere fact that the amount of the State aid will depend on the effectiveness of the parties in obtaining private funds not mean that there will be a clear differentiation in favour of the wealthy electorate regardless of the reasonableness of the scheme? Another question. Is it true to use the term "detonation of the political scene" when the terms of office are different electoral results and new groups in parliament, which the Sejm is a particularly good example of? One last question. You are proposing to abolish the electoral silence on the day of the election. My question is, aren't you afraid that there might be serious manifestations in front of the polls, not in the polls, but in front of the polls? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will they interfere with the electoral process? [[Voice from the room: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u134	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Applicants! You are proposing to increase the limits of contributions from individuals to the political party. My question concerns people who will be able to deposit up to 50,000. zł. Should the policy be reserved for the richest? Do you want parties to be dependent on big business, and yet one aspect of receiving subsidies from the budget is to ensure the independence of the political party? Why are you forgetting this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Very, I see, it hurt Members of various groups to raise the limit, but is it true that today there are really different possibilities to circumvent the limits that a single person can contribute to political parties? In fact, we know very well that the hand-to-hand transfer of money washes the whole picture of the transparency of financing political parties. At present, the system does not really solve such problems. Do I think it is right that the applicant wanted first of all to restore this transparency and to make the actual and actual donor a real donor? And is it true that Mr Kukiz spoke a little foolishly here15, which suggested that we should [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's right. make political parties financed from unknown sources, because today's law on political parties says that there must be an identified source of contributions and that they cannot be paid by nameless cards? We do not want to change this entry in the Modern Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Question for Members of the applicants from the Modern. Dear Member States, or this bill we are proposing right now, can contribute to our increasing turnout. What do I mean? Namely noticeable is the trend of some disgusting citizens to politics, to political parties. Long after 1989, the parties worked for it. Therefore, the process of identifying with the leader person itself is difficult with the programme of the party. In this connection, the question: Can more money be spent on expert work, on content, on programme work also boost attendance in parliamentary elections, or at all other levels, because we are seeing a steady flow rate of people interested in participating in elections? Another question: could this be the result of such greater involvement of citizens in programme issues, in the substantive work of political parties through this law, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the next election would not win the team, which says that it represents the entire Polish nation, and in fact it is only talking about 5 million eligible to vote, approx. 18% voters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taxpayers' money, ordinary citizens, some party leaders just treat it as a luxury pension fund, which is why I think the right questions are that I would like the applicant to answer. How much public money has Law and Justice spent in recent years on the personal protection of President Jarosław Kaczyński? How much public money has Law and Justice spent on lawyers for President Jarosław Kaczyński in recent years? I would just like to add that the modern law proposed will introduce an absolute obligation to publish the financial statements, the details of the persons who are paying and all the accounts of expenditure in the Public Information Bulletin and this obligation will apply to each party. However, the absence of such publication within a specified period will result in an unconditional loss of subsidies from the state budget and this is the solution that can guarantee the full transparency and transparency of the expenditure of each political party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Warzecha, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the applicant from the Modern Member to answer the following questions. Will the changes in question not lead to the fact that the electorate of the less affluent citizens will not be in the Sejm at all or will be poorly represented, because political parties will have to support those solutions that benefit only wealthy citizens in order to find financing for their activities? Will the proposed changes not lead to the situation that political parties will be financed by strong pressure groups, especially from the business sphere, e.g. by means of the so-called. poles? Will the proposed amendments not lead to a situation in which the parties, instead of the substantive work, will only be engaged in searching for additional sources of funding? Will the proposed provisions not lead to a substantial reduction in the transparency of political parties' income and expenditure? Will not the ideas submitted for part-financing of the parties from private funds lead to the situation that power and law will actually be privatized? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u143	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Modern Party. Did you change the program because, as I recall, during the election, you were in favour of eliminating the party subsidies? Today, you are talking about how to continue, so to speak, using these subsidies and, moreover, to benefit from them, to obtain funds from citizens. Here we should add, from which citizens, because I think you're not talking about the pennies of these poor citizens, but about the rich ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki. I don't think he's in the O.R. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. She's not here either. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant of the Modern Project. I wanted to ask you why you are creating a very dangerous mechanism for creating money. I suppose this may be a matter arising from the experience of banks that create money through debt. On the other hand, in your project there is a gateway to creating money through a party, namely a party can pay money to some employee, e.g. twice the salary, and this employee could then make a donation to the party, so the party would ultimately have twice as much money. If it were to repeat this and there is no security, then the party could draw money from the budget without these real, real contributions and voluntary subsidies from citizens. So that the mechanism is dangerous. Why are you proposing this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think both parties have just been formed a little too soon... [[Voices from the hall: We are not a party.]] ...have taken up a very important, socially sensitive topic of reducing party funding. I think that if in Europe, however, in most countries with a higher level of democracy, it is only a question of the level of this funding that is decided, but very carefully, to fund political parties. That is why I wanted to ask you what really led you to bring these draft laws, because your party experience does not allow this so early. If you'd brought it in... [[Voices from the hall: We're not a party.]] ...in the third year of operation or fourth, I understand that, but... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to answer what really led you to do with these draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u149	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The liquidation of party funding from the state budget means that the parties will be financed exclusively by private individuals. Mrs Joanna Schmidt said that this would be a transparent, clear financing system. Are you sure? Imagine this situation when a few dozen businessmen with the pedigree of the communist special forces will finance their favorite party. Who will then rule in Poland? Telling Poles that funding parties from the state budget is a huge burden is nothing more than demagogy. 54 million is less than the price of an F16 with full weapons. According to literature, subsidies are the cheapest way to maintain democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that today's party financing system is a relic that needs to be changed as soon as possible. It is not surprising that this topic is only taken up by new political options in the Sejm, such as the Kukiz club15 and the Modern club, because old seymists such as the PiS, Platform and PSL are perfectly located in this system. I would like to ask: Is it so difficult to convince you to allow Poles to spend money on their own? Is it that hard for you to remove the position of an eight-woman from your menu? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u153	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Trouble, I do not know why you measure us with your measure. The fact that PSL has been driven by populism for many years is one thing, and our project, the idea of a pro-Citizen, is another thing, the other. Question to the applicant from Kukiz.15. Will citizens be able to decide what happens to the money that is being taken from them today without their will and, unfortunately, often without knowledge? Will they be able to decide where the money is and which party they're going to go to and whether or not they're going to go to the party because maybe someone doesn't have their type, their favorite party, and they prefer that the money simply reduces the budget gap? That's the question. Welcome to stoppartyocracy.pl. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u155	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The applicant's representative Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address every question. I wish it was a good habit, too, for the questioners to answer questions. Unfortunately, so far, in these 100 days we have not had the opportunity to hear the answers to the questions that we most often address to the government. [[Applause]] So first, I'm going to answer Mrs. Margaret Navel's question from the PO: Do you want to make such an addiction to the amount of subsidies: he has the power, who has the money? Is the publication of reports on the funds being raised considered? Yes, my fellow Member. I don't think you've seen my speech. It's okay. Welcome to our Public Information Bulletin, welcome to Watchdog's website. I handed over a full list of receipts and expenses to your marshal today, so I understand that this question is no longer valid. On the other hand, Commissioner, yes, we will have to work. It's gonna take a lot of work to get money from the Poles. I understand this may be very difficult for the Civic Platform, but don't be offended. Hard work pays off. Wojciech Bakun of Kukiz.15: Have you estimated the increase in expenditure at the first threshold, 5% Support? What was the aim of the reduction - a few dozen percent - of voting funding on the fourth threshold of support? This will have an absolutely negligible impact, sir, because the parties that have gained over 3%, and the conglomerates of the parties that took part in alliances, can be counted on the fingers of one hand. Also, please remember that first these groups must collect money from citizens, from Poles and only later will we return the money to them. Just crossing the threshold is already quite difficult from the logistics and organizational side, because you have to report electoral lists, you have to start in most districts in Poland. If the parties can do it, then yes, let's reward them for it, let them continue to develop, because it means that some part of the Poles trusted them and wanted to see them in a political game. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski from Kukiz.15: Why are you introducing financial thresholds for the party if this depends on the number of votes in the election? Please note that the amount of support depends on the support of private contributions, and this is the clue. Only to what we collect will the Treasury add the other half. There is no better incentive system for the lot than such a solution. The German example is a model for us here. I encourage you to set an example from the best. And that system works really well. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15: How would parties be able to raise funds to address their programmes to the poorest people who cannot afford the smallest donations? The empire of past years shows that it is these people who have relatively least wealthy wallets who are most likely to pay for political parties. That's what happened in our case. I encourage you to read the report we have submitted. I think Father Tadeusz Rydzyk will be able to share my opinion, because if you see who is paying money for his foundation, you will understand that the key is not in the wealth of those who are paying, but in the ability to reach people who can contribute. Both Jurek Owsiak and Tadeusz Rydzyk admit it, they do it splendidly. This is a good time for political parties to also learn hard work, reach out to citizens and have a good dialogue with them. Mr. Frugo... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Furgo!]] ...from Modern: Is it true that this is about ending the fiction of financing political parties? Yes, sir. That's the truth. The point is to make the parties spend money smarter. Right now, they're giving in an absurd way. You can read the press reports or the leaks from the Civic Platform, how much Zegna's suits cost, how much cigars cost, and how much dinners, wine costs. You can see on our websites what we spend our money on. You just won't find such positions there. Mr. Paweł Bejda of PSL: Do you realize that such an amendment you are handing over to the parties in the hands of the great financer? Sir, you may say the wrong thing a thousand times, of course, but if you quote Oscar Wilde a thousand times, you tell a lie, it won't be true. Believe me. Although Goebbels claimed that the lie repeated a thousand times would be declared true, it is not. So we want to put parties and party financing into the hands of citizens and this is what our law says. I encourage you to read it carefully, to read it at all, and not to ask questions that do not really refer to the content of our bill, because this question has nothing to do with what is the content of our bill. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska of the PiS: Do you think that only wealthy or wealthy citizens have the right to represent politically? Are lower income people a worse category? No, ma'am, it's quite the opposite, as I was just talking about. Every citizen has the same voice in the Republic of Poland. Once again, you have great contacts with Mr. Tadeusz, I'm sorry, Father Tadeusz... [[Voice from the room: Father!]] ...or maybe my father, but not mine, so with priest Tadeusz Rydzyk, great contact. You can see who Tadeusz Rydzyk's father is making payments from. From what I understand, the biggest beneficiary is the Treasury, and then the small micro-payments, really, which we are talking about, only that the most often paid cash in churches or directly in Toruń. So what we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen, is citizenship. We are counting, once again, on deposits of 10 zlotys per million people, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is effective. It works in Germany, in the United States, in the United Kingdom, so that you can do it. And remember, we'll pay another dollar for every gold we get. The political parties here can count on the support of the state and it seems to us to be absolutely the best solution, we are sure that this is the best solution. Mr Adam Szłapka asked whether the current legislation allows for meaningless campaigning activities, not forcing expenditure on content work. Yeah, that's what it is. We have an unlimited limit on advertising activities. When an outdoor campaign is coming up, you certainly know that the outdoor costs twice as much, all the agencies know that the parties are willing to spend money. They spend willingly because it's public money, so they're absolutely willing to spend. It is similar with press advertising, with advertising on the Internet, television. We would like to eliminate, as I said earlier, the free spending of budget money on this type of activity, and focus on an expert, substantive activity that will improve the quality of the law and the quality of the laws which the parties, the state and we, bring to the session of the Sejm. Mr Adam Szłapka also asked if they would introduce full transparency towards all political parties. Yes, sir, there will be absolute transparency, and it will be dogmatic. If political parties do not wish to make their report public, they will simply not receive funding and there can be no derogation from it. We are convinced that this will be an effective means to start in Poland with the adoption of this law a real process of transparency, purity and transparency of political parties' finances. Mrs. Laubnauer asked... [[Voice from the room: Lubnauer...]] Do you have any record of how many groups have issued their statement of expenditure to inform the public benefit organization? We are the first, I am pleased to inform you, Member, that we are the first. We're first and only. In 25 years, no political party has decided to take the step we have taken today. I know that the PSL, the PiS and the Platforms might seem impossible, but we are. We did. You can see these reports. I encourage you to read, although it is not as interesting as the one that will certainly take place if POs and PiS want to publish their reports. But it's worth reading, because there are a lot of substantive tips on how to spend money rationally and professionally. I encourage you. For what reasons did the parties consider that there should be a limit on expert spending and no limit on campaigning activities? What was the motive for the public good? That question, honourable Member, is not answered. This is a very difficult answer. We would have to look into the hearts and minds of Members in 2001 who adopted this law in the High House. But I agree that this is some kind of mental aberration. I can only guess that political parties, PR's and treasurers were interested in transferring this money to friendly advertising agencies. I believe it will never happen again. If you wish to adopt the bill that we are proposing, it will certainly not happen again. We will be able to spend more money on good things, which I very much wish you and I. Mr. Jerzy Kozłowski from Kukiz.15. Are your actions moving towards party corporations, or is that your goal? Sir, I don't think you've read our project. I mean, I'm always talking about how it's the other way around. I would like to encourage you again to read our report. You'll be able to see who paid in. We were okay. Nine and a half thousand. payments. It's all made available and you can check it out. Clear and clean. Clean, ladies and gentlemen. I encourage you to take the example of the Modern and support our bill. [[Applause]] Mr. Zbigniew Sosnowski from PSL. Aren't the parties gonna go for a rich voter? What do you mean, deconstructing a political scene? Aren't you afraid of manifesting before the election to disrupt the election process? One last question, I believe, does not apply to this bill, but I will answer it to you. No, we're not scared. Generally, we are not afraid of many things in politics, because that's why we came to politics to do difficult things, and it's such a difficult thing to process mines. Over this bill. [[Applause]] Aren't the parties gonna go for a rich voter? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I understand it's hard to visit 2,000. voters, but we did it in Modern. We worked 16 hours a day. I'm sure that's why, among other things. We're in this parliament. That is why we managed to collect more than PLN 10 million from the citizens who trusted us. Because we worked hard and because we visited thousands of people and talked them into it, we convinced them that we had a good project and a good idea for Poland. What do you mean, deconstructing a political scene? PSL policy is a legitimate question, I must say. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm sorry, I don't know how old PSL is, but I think it's over 100. [[Voice from the room: 100.]] So this concrete has such foundations as no party in Poland has. Even the mother party, the PZPR, was not as well rooted in the party system as the PSL. You have to be clear about that, too. Detonation I understand as allowing political games to be made about Poland by parties such as ours, such parties as Kukiz.15, such parties, perhaps, as together as Direct Democracy. It is worth rubbing off in parliament so as not to rub off on the streets. This is, sir, the detonation of political parties. I encourage you to try to rejuvenate your ranks, too, because Mr Kamysz is, of course, a very pleasant swallow, but the only one so far. Now for Mr. Krystian Jarubas' PSL question. Should the policy be reserved for the richest? Should parties be dependent on big business? No, they're not. I want them fully transparent. Read our bill. If you would like to read it, understand it, you will not have to ask questions to us. These questions should be addressed to you - Rights and Justice and the Civic Platform. These are the right addresses, because they concreted this political scene, very effectively, as you can see, but not so effectively that we can't do the rifts in this concrete, which we do, among other things, by introducing this law. Ms Kloska from Modern - that is, from me - asks whether it is true that there are different possibilities for circumvention of the limits of contributions to political parties today. Ma'am, I don't know because we don't care about this bill. Our actions are fully transparent, but I've heard it's possible. If I look at the number of billboards I had in my hometown, and there were 18 of them, if my memory is correct, and all the billboards that the Civic Platform bought, I think they must have had a super-attractive price or a lot of money they didn't show in the reports, but we encourage them to want to make those reports public, then we can see how much money was spent on this campaign and whether it was real values. Mr Zembaczyński asks if, thanks to the bill we are proposing, we can increase our turnout, or whether our law will increase citizens' involvement in the political process. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this obviously requires many years of work, but it is worth starting this job today, because if a citizen feels that he is paying his money and has a real impact on who is elected, he will be more willing to vote - there is no doubt about it. Scandinavian and Anglo-Saxon countries with a rich democratic tradition with 75% attendance They've seen this kind of dependence a long time ago. As you know, our turnout in the last election is 51%. and we are among the countries with one of the lowest attendances in the European Union. We should want this turnout to be much higher, because it is in a good tone, but also in the best interests of the Republic. Ms Pihowicz asks how much public money PiS spent on the President's personal protection and how much PiS spent on lawyers in recent years. On average, the president - but I may be wrong, here you are probably experts - spends 1.5 million on your protection. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, it is very sad that someone who enjoys such high social support must be so afraid. It must be a traumatic experience. I feel very much for the President that he is protected every day, also at night, and I would like him to feel safe in the country where I live, and so that this protection does not have to cost so much that he simply walks the streets of Polish cities and does not fear. You spend $200,000 on lawyers, but that's okay, I'd be happy to spend money on lawyers myself, creating good projects if I had them. So I must say, I have no objection to you here. I'd like that money, since you already have it, instead of outdoor, you spend on expertise and lawyers. This is a very good direction and our bill that we have tabled today, which is where it is headed. Mr. Jan Warzecha of the PiS asks if the changes will not hit the poorest. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want to take anything from the poor or the rich. If anyone wants to deposit money on a political party, they will. I do not think that anyone is forced to contribute to the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help or to participate in the collections made by Father Tadeusz Rydzyk. Will the parties not be financed by pressure groups or pillars? I don't know anything, ladies and gentlemen, about any political parties being financed by the pillars. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But if you have such practice, I think it is necessary to notify the relevant services to examine how it is done for the pillars to fund the political party. Maybe Janusz Palikot knows something about it, but I'm sending it back to Mr. Palikot. Will the party have time to work as part of a permanent fundraiser campaign? Will power and law not be privatized? Ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna have to work. That's right. We're gonna have to start working at all. I don't think you're working enough if you ask me that question. And not at night, because at night money gets bad and you get caught by the police and convicted of attempted robbery when it comes to collecting money at night. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So we offer to collect in the day, but you can work at night. I work very late often because I work very much, but that's why I came to politics to work hard, so I feel good about it. Mrs. Barbara Chrobak of Kukiz.15 asks why you changed your program, you wanted to eliminate the subsidy, what happened. Ma'am, we are looking for a solution that can be accepted by all the political parties in this Parliament. I have repeated many times, and also Richard Petru, and all our current Members sitting in Parliament today, that the best model for us is the German model, or mixed model. And I'm not gonna hide that this model has the most inspiration we've ever had. I am sure you have heard, but I will repeat that the party system, in which parties are financed only by private money, is best in Ukraine and Belarus, as well as in Malta. We certainly do not want to go this way and we encourage you to think that this is, however, a German, English, Scandinavian or American road. Let us take advantage of good and proven practices, and that is what these countries are involved in. Mr. Kulesza of Kukiz.15: Why do you create a mechanism for creating money, or is it the experience of banks? I, sir, didn't work at the bank, nor did I create money. This is a very simple mechanism: I go to people, I tell them what kind of program I have, I convince them. If someone thinks it's a good program, he pays us what he thinks is appropriate, but within a certain limit. That limit is 50,000. PLN per year. And if someone thinks I'm good and my program is good, then I'll be absolutely happy if they want to deposit that amount. But as I said before, I would like 1 million people to pay PLN 10 instead of 10 people to pay PLN 1 million. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler of PO: What prompted you to make these draft laws? Member of the Commission, among others. Disgracing the Civic Platform. This is one of the main reasons why we think transparency is important. Your octopus, your cigars, your wine, your suits, your expenses are nothing to the program and what citizens expect. But Poland is already 25 years old, free Poland, and we think it's time to change. The funding system is archaic. I look forward, of course, to the full report of the Civic Platform. Today I also gave Mr Neumann our complete statement of revenue and expenditure and I expect that within 7 days, well, maybe 14, if you have so much expenditure, you will do the same and will provide us and all Poles with a list of your expenditure and revenue. We, ladies and gentlemen, have nothing to hide. Modern. org, Public Information Bulletin, welcome, you can trace each of our expenses and every deposit. Ms Bernadeta Krynicka from PiS: Who will exercise power in Poland, those who will be able to finance the party? Transparency, purity and transparency. It will be held by those parties which the Poles choose, it is very simple. I think even in the primary school textbook, and not in the middle school, you can read who is in charge of the country. Transparency, purity and transparency. Greed, ladies and gentlemen, is not good. We can change that today, so I ask you to rise above your political commandments for a moment and look at this good solution, which we present, because it is a good solution for the party, the Republic of Poland and every citizen. Thank you very much. [[Applause, some Members of the Poselski Club stand up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u157	Thank you very much. Now the representative will take the floor... [[Mr. Marshal, can you correct me?]] That is not possible, you have mentioned many Members, if everyone wanted to straighten out, we would be here until tomorrow. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Marshal, please.]] But I can't make exceptions, I can't make exceptions in this case. [[He's got lucky friends.]] Please, Mrs Agnieszka's applicant Chasing, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, Mr Bear gave me a little breath, because we've been learning difficult modern names for a few months, and I think the marshal knows something about it, too, [[Joy in the Chamber]] And here's some education in this respect. So I think... I also thank you for some of the answers to questions that have been addressed a little bit together. I'll start with those that were directly addressed to our club, in connection with our proposal. Mr Schreiber, from Law and Justice, started by saying that our proposals, I think, were so directed on both sides, serve to destabilize the party system. I'm just gonna say, not destabilization. They are used to change the system to a responsible party system. And really noticing the difference between a citizen's attachment to this system and the destabilization of the state seems to indicate such a little detachment. It was also mentioned here that we want to campaign every year, walk every year, ask, and somehow it will be unfavorable and we will not work in substance. You say you listen to your constituents. Many voters say this in this way: we would like the campaign to be every year, because it is only before the elections that Members are interested in us and our needs. So maybe it wouldn't be so bad if we were really interested in the more often and the recipients of our messages that we're conveying, somehow they've seen it every day and not just once every four years. I would like to refer here to Members of the Polish People's Party, because the questions oscillated around such a context that we somehow ruled out, it concerned a group of farmers, from this group, which does not pay PIT - from this possibility of transmission. We do not rule out, our project assumes and maintains the possibility of donation. If someone does not pay PIT, they can make a donation, even in the amount of PLN 5. But if he doesn't pay PIT because he has very low income, then I'm really convinced that he won't feel discriminated against because he doesn't have to share those low income with any party. So I think... As for the allegations that we do not allow any more to pass on to the parties - we allow, in the same mechanism, because everyone will be able to make a donation in the latter mode, so if someone has such a wish, they do not have to use only these 5 zlotys. Mrs Lenartowicz - actually one of the arguments that I have considered, and I do not know what to say, is the argument of memes. To be honest, we don't really care. I think that, as far as the Internet is concerned, this is our main source of communication with our constituents, so somehow memes don't scare us very much. We've seen a lot of these memes about the Civic Platform, and I don't know if it's a bigger problem for you. Not for us. As for the fact that our project does not involve abolishing funding from the state budget - yes, it does not, I have made clear and clear the objectives that we have. It is above all the bonding of a Member with a citizen and the imposition of responsibility, forcing a certain responsibility, by the fact that it is the citizen who will have control of how the funds he is transferring will be held in which parties they will be in. And that's the main goal. The second objective is civic education, encouraging citizens to take an interest in having such a feeling that they have an impact on anything. Those who give money really have the feeling that they should control what that money is spent on. We really wanted to build trust. Indeed, we are in Parliament as a young group - not a party, but a group - and we would like... We form this government together, we create this parliament, we are responsible for this nation, and we need to avoid seeing all politicians through the prism of some politicians. We'd like the nation to start believing politicians so they can start believing the government, people who really decide his fate every day. It can't be that way, ladies and gentlemen... I don't know why you don't mind that so few people trust us, so few people. On the one hand, they entrust their fate to us, and on the other hand they declare... You believe in polls, you spend money on them. These polls haven't changed in years. In fact, only 20% of the population is able to trust politicians. So it's about rebuilding that trust. I think the combination and dedication of our fate, the financial fate in the hands of citizens would really strengthen this relationship and improve our image. Mrs Joasia Schmidt said, right here I will remind the Modern that we are not a party, so actually, yes, we really are not a party. I would like to stress that we are not a party of our own choice and that we would not benefit from this mechanism, which is why there is a proposal for other committees to benefit from it. We are not a party of our own choice, because in our programme, in our strategy, we have made it clear that we are in favour of abolishing funding. I don't know what words to use not to use a word that I can only think of when someone says they're in favour of abolishing subsidies and then knowingly using them. The only word I can think of maybe I'm wrong is the term "hypocrisy." So we didn't want to be hypocrites. In fact, we wanted to show the consequences despite the high costs we bear. Here, the Member spoke of hard work. We work twice as hard because we really have to do a lot of things ourselves. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, but you can increase efficiency. That's a method too. Mrs Prof. Pavlovicz accused us of the unconstitutionality of our records. We've submitted an autocorrection to our project. Indeed, there was no record, which is actually in the case of the 1% mechanism on the fact that the citizen must declare that he consents to dissemination. We reported this autocorrection, she was there. On the other hand, as regards the fact that officials will know about who declares support for the party, because they give their 5 zlotys, I think there is a tax secret here. Similarly, if we can follow this thinking course, if the officials know how much we earn, if the social workers know what social problems we have, if the judicial staff know about our other situations, then we cannot take it as a measure that the official will know what we will transfer our 5 zlotys to. So it is not justified, as far as this remark is concerned, especially since the protection of personal data is governed by other laws. On the other hand, I am surprised that Prof. Pavłowicz, in this respect, He defends Mr. Kwasniewski's constitution so strongly. [[Applause]] I guess that's a lot of substantive questions. I don't know if I answered them all. And that's what I'm going to say at the end... There have been a lot of questions about the destabilization of the system and the fact that somehow we want to shine, that we want to promote populism. No, ladies and gentlemen, we're really looking for solutions. In fact, it can already be said: almost desperately to draw your attention, especially to Members who accuse us of being young, that we have no experience. May we not gain such experience. We are very strongly defending ourselves against these good advices, because we did not come from politics, but we want to point out that life is taking place there, that Poles judge us differently. We are desperately looking for solutions to restore citizens' confidence in this power to bring citizens back to thinking about what citizenship is at all. We have been talking about this for years, nothing has been done in this country for civil society to make citizens feel like they own this country. Hence our proposals. It's not populism, it's a simple request. I finished my speech with the words "I'm asking you." I'm really asking you. I'm not the politician you've shown here before. You said we wanted to shine. No, we want to say on behalf of those citizens who sent us here, do something to get us to trust you again. This is one of the mechanisms: the financial mechanism. I'm asking you not to reject this project at first reading. Maybe he's not perfect, maybe he needs an adjustment, but it's not a populist project. This is a very simple project, but it would really change a lot. So we ask that you be on the committee and that these elements, perhaps actually shared with the Modern, in some way receive support and be refined, and that you pay attention to these objectives, to the principles that we here, actually, can say: together with the Modern, we have spoken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u159	Thank you. That concludes the discussion. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 222 and 249 and 249-A at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the electoral code law, the local referendum law and the national referendum law (print No 224). I ask Mrs Marta Golbik to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u160	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a draft law amending the electoral code law, the local referendum law and the national referendum law. The aim of the amendment is to amend the rules prohibiting electoral campaigns on the eve and on the day of the election and the publication of poll results on the eve of elections - the anachronistic and non-realized laws of the modern world, the laws of which enforcement is practically impossible, which reduces respect for the law and exposes you to ridicule. There is no reason to see the benefits of maintaining this fiction. On the other hand, there are good arguments for changing the rules, such as an opportunity to raise very low attendance in Poland. That is why we are bringing to the session a bill abolishing the bans: electoral agitation and conducting the referendum campaign on the day before the elections and referendums, and on the day of elections and referendums outside the voting venue, and publishing polls on electoral and referendums and public opinion polls on voting behaviours the day before the elections and referendums. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to fully realise the absurdity of the present-day electoral silence, one must reach into history. The electoral silence was first introduced after World War II, based on the experience of the Weimar Republic, when the weak state was unable to prevent the brutal riots that followed frequent elections in interwar Germany. While acknowledging the undisputed thesis about the brutalisation of Polish political life, it cannot be compared to the situation in Germany in the 1920s and early 1930s. It should also be recalled that during the elections in Poland in 1989, the electoral silence was not in force. It was introduced later because it was considered that Poles needed quietness to think about the right choice. It is undefensible that in 1989. Poles made less appropriate choice than in all subsequent elections and referendums. In the meantime, there has been a radical social change that the Internet has made. The first mass medium, which assumes an interactive model of communication and its multipolarity. Communication, where the boundaries between what is private and what is public are blurred. It turned out that citizens were discussing their decisions on social networks, but the current legal situation basically forbids them to do so. Today, it would be difficult to recognise that a day off from the election campaign allows voters to make a balanced and rational decision about who to vote for on election day. Sociological studies leave no doubt in this matter. The vast majority of voters decide who they vote for, much earlier. In the first round of the 2015 presidential election, the election decision on a pre-election Saturday or Sunday elections took only 11% voters, 4 years earlier - 12% voters. What is more, new questions arise about the real limit of silence on the Internet, and there are unresolved disputes about whether the likeness on the social network or the photo taken at the polling place that we are posting on the social network is already a break of silence or not. And it is worth recalling at this point that Internet access in Poland is widespread (in 2015 70% used it). Poles), the digital network becomes an area of important communication (for 32% of citizens, the Internet is already the first source of information). Social networks are also becoming more popular. The social network with the largest share of the Polish market currently has 20 million users. The consequence of this situation is a situation in which it is difficult to clearly identify the case of illegal aggression and impose a sanction, and this does not serve to build respect for the state, law and electoral process, especially among our youngest voters. This aspect is also important from the point of view of the benefits that the abolition of silence can bring. In Poland we are dealing with an embarrassingly low electoral turnout, especially in a group of youngest voters. The average turnout is the lowest among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe in Poland. In the case of Slovakia, Latvia and the Czech Republic, it is lower by almost 30 percentage points. Low turnout weakens the mandate of the authorities, which is a source of social tension. Abolishing silence will not only increase respect for the electoral process, but above all will maintain interest in the elections on the day of the vote, which should increase attendance. The current provisions of the electoral code, the national referendum law and the local referendum law provide for an institution of silence starting 24 hours before the vote and continuing until the vote is completed. In the course of it, there is a ban on electoral agitation in Poland and a ban on conducting referendum campaigns. At that time, there is also a ban on the publication of any electoral and referendum polls and public opinion polls on voting behaviour. For violation of these prohibitions, the electoral code and the referendum laws provide for fines. The amendment tabled, when adopted by the Sejm, will abolish the bans on the electoral campaign and the referendum campaign in force on the day before the vote and on the day of the vote until the end of the vote. In this respect, symmetrical amendments are made to the Code of Elections Act, the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act. As a result, from the beginning of the campaign to the end of the campaign, it will be possible in the electoral campaign and in the referendum campaign to agitate the electoral campaign, to convene assemblies, to organize torches and manifestations, to give speeches, to give out flyers. There will be a ban on the conduct of electoral and referendum campaigns at the voting premises and on the premises of the electoral premises, as well as other prohibitions on their running in the offices, workplaces and units of uniformed services. The amendment, following its adoption by the Sejm, will also limit the scope of the ban on the publication of electoral polls, public opinion polls and voting preferences in elections and referendums, limiting temporarily this ban to the days on which the vote takes place, i.e. the ban on the publication of polls the day before the elections. Since national elections and referendums are expected to be able to vote within the next 2 days, in such cases the ban will apply on the first day in its entirety and the second day until the end of the vote. The consequences of the above changes will be appropriate changes to the criminal provisions of the amended laws, which will abolish penalties for violation of the electoral silence and limit the criminality of the publication of polls until voting time. The type of punishment will remain unchanged. An additional consequence of the main changes will be the natural need to amend the provisions of the electoral code on the right to distribute free of charge electoral programmes in public broadcasting programmes at the expense of those broadcasters. Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Applicants are convinced that the proposed change will have a positive social impact by increasing citizens' involvement in public life and political life. We expect an increase in turnout, which will be due to the extension of the period during which potential voters will receive up-to-date information about elections and referendums. The interest of citizens in public affairs will increase, as it should be assumed, and in a broader context there will be an increase in the positive reception of the entire electoral process. In particular, it is expected to reduce the prevalence of negative electoral behaviour, calling into question the seriousness of electoral procedures and bans. The law after its adoption will not have significant economic and financial consequences. Some market developments can be expected, but marginally important for the economy as a whole, such as a slight increase in the revenues of polling organisations, as well as likely to increase the expenditure of electoral and referendum campaigners as a result of longer duration of communication with voters. The adoption of the amendment will not have legal effects except for the need to amend the implementing rules adopted pursuant to Article. 117 § 6 the electoral code in connection with the amendment of the statutory authorisation contained in that provision. However, these changes will not be significant compared to the current content of the Regulation. To the rest, the legal effects will not take place through the transitional provision contained in Article. 4 a project providing for the application of existing provisions to elections and referendums ordered before the date of entry into force of the Act. This proposal for regulation is not covered by European Union law. Furthermore, the adoption of the amendment does not entail a financial burden on the state budget and the budgets of local government units. Ladies and gentlemen! There are a number of issues about which, in such a short speech, justify the need for changes in order to eliminate the so-called institutions. The silence of the election cannot be said. It is not possible to characterize many inconsistencies or directly inconsistencies arising from anachronistic but still existing regulations. For example, a billboard trailer can stand in silence, but it cannot move, but buses covered with posters can ride, text of electoral agitation posted on the Internet on Friday may be in the same place a day later, but it cannot be edited, nor can another text be added. From these, among others. The electoral silence institution no longer exists in almost half of the countries of the European Union. There's no silence in the United States either. It is proposed that the law should enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. The long vacathio legis will allow authorities applying the provisions of the amended laws to properly prepare for the implementation of the amendments, in particular to allow the National Radio and Television Council to prepare and issue a new regulation on the basis of Article. 117 § Six electoral codes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u161	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Schreiber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position on the draft in print No 224. This project is really about eliminating the electoral silence and sanctions for violating it. The project retains the prohibition of agitation in the electoral premises and on the premises of the building in which the electoral premises are located, as well as the prohibition of agitation in the premises of offices, establishments etc. The project regulates the publication of electoral polls, voting preference surveys, limiting this prohibition temporarily to days or days if it is elections to the European Parliament in which the vote takes place. High Izbo! We are dealing with one of these projects which, in a partial, vague way, are trying to make changes to the electoral code. I was the first in the last term to protest against this type of policy, the actions of different parties, and I applied a uniform option. I thought we should take care of change. I have been saying this continuously since 2011, maybe 2012, when the first projects entered, by the end of the term of office, the projects which were notified by various clubs and regulated it in a partial, selective, imprecise manner. I called: let's work on the electoral code, let's do it holistically, let's work on the code, because he needs change. This code must be changed, but let's do it holistically, not by chance, not selectively. At that time, my voice was not entirely taken into account. The ruling parties believed that they had better knowledge in this regard and made partial changes, messing even more, and that the electoral code was more messy than at the beginning of the term of office. Unfortunately, in your project - I am addressing the applicants - we also see the issue of this fundamental question. There's a problem with the electoral silence. We also see this problem with the silence, especially on the Internet. That's actually the problem. Something's got to be done about it, okay? But are we going to improve the situation if we eliminate this appearance of the voter silence on the Internet that we have right now, and replace this with the possibility of flirting in front of the polls on election day? Is that a better solution? Perhaps we should build up this regulation about the absence of silence by other solutions. Perhaps this should be - again I am talking about - built completely. But the way you do it, the simple way you do it, even in your project, there's a contradiction. On the one hand, you say there is no silence, but on the other hand you say: well, but we make an exception, but these polls should not be shown on election day, but this is an exception. If we make an exception here, then, of course, all the arguments that speak of disrespect for you because such situations appear on the Internet, and not other situations, you can actually throw into the basket, because with all the reprehensible situations that you define in your project, we will have to deal with. And let's agree that the issue of electoral polls is one of the most important problems. This is the electoral tool that can be used in these last days, the last hours before the vote, for the voters. That's why... I promised - oh, I will not keep my word - that I will finish my short talk early, so I will end my speech by appealing to all the states, to all the clubs, to actually start working on the electoral code, but not in such a selective way. However, I propose that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u163	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the proposal of the Modern Club for amending the Code of Elections Act, the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act, the subject of which is the abolition of the bans on electoral aggression and the conduct of the referendum campaign on the day preceding the elections and referendums, and the day of the elections and referendums outside the voting venue, as well as the publication of polls and referendums the day before the elections and referendums, public opinion polls on voting behaviour, those bans which are present in the law in the current wording. The project was submitted by Members of the Modern Club. As the applicants stress, the amendment takes into account the profound changes in electoral behaviour resulting from the development of social relations and the development of electronic media. However, while one can see the need, evidently, to include the technological revolution in communication, which makes current bans as much as anachronistic, as impossible, and yet the law which constitutes it should have a real possibility to enforce it, to add this proposal, as the applicants want, to the rank of act adapting the Polish electoral system to the reality of contemporary social and political relations in the conduct of electoral and referendum campaigns seems far, far exaggerated. Although we also identify such a need, we consider it to be a club, but we believe that limiting ourselves to meeting this expectation is far too little to eliminate these two prohibitions and that, perhaps not quite, it is a successful proposal. No one denies that the silence in its present form is largely fiction, and its announcement before the act of choice to arouse emotion, because that was the original intention, and the limitation of the brutalisation of the campaign is ineffective. However, arguments that silence is unnecessary, because at that time of reflection, as the legislator assumes, according to research, only 11% %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% voters make decisions, they seem unstoppable. This percentage, as a rule, and not only in Poland, determines the results of the elections. Furthermore, it has not been studied, for understandable reasons, how these decisions would look if the agitation lasted until the last moment, and whether, as the applicant wants, such agitation would induce, because they assume the applicants - we do not know on what basis, the research is unknown in this regard - indeed a greater percentage of people to go to urns, and most likely comparative investigations of the situation in us and in other countries are not possible at this time, because we do not have data about the previous state from us. On the other hand, the argument against the current voter silence is that the ban applies de facto and only to the electoral seat and, on the other hand, only, as already mentioned by the Member presenting the position of the Modern, placing new content in public space. However, it remains fundamental - in our opinion this is a cloud problem - a question about the legal definition of electoral aggression, which would both allow for effective execution of the electoral silence, clarification of the duration of the issue, and would ensure independently of the interpretation of the directors, e.g. public media, equal and democratic access to public space for groups outside Parliament and opposition. It's a far wider range than just the silence, and I think it's crucial. Unlike the applicants, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club identifies the risks associated with the conduct of the electoral campaign when the electoral silence is lifted. These are currently due to quite current concerns both regarding the use of the area of religious life of voters and arising from the monopolization of public media by one policy option, e.g. an applicant for re-election. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Abolishing the silence of the election at a time when in Poland, as a rule, on the days when elections take place... This is a time involving traditional practices in religious objects, is greater access, greater reception of radio and public television. This also requires an impact on the availability of free antenna time. Undoubtedly, in the current state of functioning of democratic mechanisms in our country, including in public media, the parliamentary debate on the relevant legal standards for the conduct of electoral and referendum campaigns is extremely necessary and should not be limited to the issue of electoral silence. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be happy to join the debate in subsequent readings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u165	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! In fact, this bill should be called "Police will not enter Facebook from now on." Indeed, I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the changes proposed by the Modern Club concerning the Code of Elections Act, the Local referendum Act, the National referendum Act, specifically the changes, in fact, cosmetic in our opinion. Of course, the bill abolishes the bans on electoral aggression on election day. It may be a little dangerous, but it's worth thinking about, publishing the day before the election - it's abolishing - and voting polls. And that's the problem because, ladies and gentlemen, we're in the country... I'm a freeman, I don't mind, but we're not in a country where polls study public opinion, but we live in a country where polls create public opinion, and that's the fundamental difference. The best proof of that is the presidential election not to appeal to some kind of classic who said that one of the candidates would lose the election if he ran over someone on the runway. And all the polls gave this person victory. Of course, the ban on abolishing or banning, in fact, these two or three aspects must be further discussed, but we still believe that these are cosmetic changes. For us, in fact, it is an incentive for the project to go on, to work in committee, to second reading, to think about what the real problems are in the bill, especially in the National referendum bill, because they are the most important here. For us, the most important aspect in the National referendum Act is not the silence at all and there are no polls, but, ladies and gentlemen, the restoration of power to citizens. And neither the parties nor the modern ones are likely to want to go. I hope that we will see that, first of all, the obligatoryity of this referendum, unless you support us, everyone sitting here with 17 parliamentarians. What's this all about? Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply necessary to give the people power, i.e. to change the procedure of the article. 125, a mandatory referendum must be introduced. Today - I don't know if you know - one senator can e.g. initiate a resolution of the Senate, which opens the way to the Senate, of course also with the participation of the President of the Republic, and many hundreds of thousands of people cannot do so. The second aspect is constitutionality, ladies and gentlemen, i.e. binding, so often confused, whether a referendum is important or binding. And sometimes I wonder if a lot of parliamentarians have a problem distinguishing this aspect. Well, binding, ladies and gentlemen, this constitutionality, as is often called in constitutionalism, is the best proof that there are many shortcomings here. For us, constitutionality cannot be based on 50%, because not only has the last referendum proved it, most referendums prove it. We just have to set this threshold at 10%. This will be the best factor that will change our turnout. Why? Because most people will not want to release themselves from the responsibility of obstructing the referendum, but will want to go to that referendum with a different opinion. The 10% threshold is therefore another aspect. Our latest proposal, which we are going to propose, which means we are going to try to fix this project, is so-called. reference day. Let us finally get used to the fact that it is not only people in this House who can decide the fate of the state, but citizens, as in any democracy. Citizens can do this directly through a referendum. Nothing stands in the way of one day a year, e.g. National holiday, designated in advance, e.g. In a 4-year-old perception, it was the day we could, but we don't have to, do a referendum. It lowers the cost. If it's an election year, it's absolutely on election day, and it's probably the most sensible one. What's the conclusion, the position of the Kukiz club15, not the party? We should learn, too, after all these years, everyone's talking about experience. The conclusion is that we are conditionally supporting this project in order to improve it and that instead of cosmetic changes, we will lead to the surrender of power to citizens through mandatory, constitutional [[♪ The bell ♪]] referendum, i.e. citizens before politicians and political parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u167	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u168	Mr. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: Is it...]] [[Voice from the room: Where is...]] [[Voices from the hall: There it is, there it is.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I checked, it's here, it's here. ... High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The so-called voter silence is fiction. It's kind of weird how quiet our election is. Let's remember those two days when we have the silence of the election. What happens these two days before the election results are announced? Everyone pretends nothing's going on. TV's faking, radio's faking, voters faking, politicians faking. What's going on outside? Outside on the posters, potential chosen ones smile at us, their posters ride on buses, we see it everywhere, and Polonia, who is voting for us abroad, despite the fact that it is banned from embassies and consulates, is agitating in front of embassies and consulates. And in the virtual world? It's already around here, and it's really just ignoring the law. Dear Members, we all know very well how we are gathered here in 20, how electoral campaigns are going. Since the Internet, the blade of this campaign has moved to the virtual world, especially to Internet forums. And these regulations, which were introduced in the 20th century, made no sense, because it is the 21st century, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, we can all pretend that the source of information for each of us is traditional media, but this is bullshit, because we all know exactly how important the participation of electronic media is for all of us, and this has been shown by the recent parliamentary elections, not to mention the presidential elections. So I'm wondering why pretend, why lead this fiction. The Internet, as we know, is an area of such informational freedom, and unfortunately the law is slipping away, and none of us sitting here watching this right wants to break. And we can't really, in a democratic state of law, stop Internet users from expressing their opinion, because then the electoral silence is anti-democratic and restricts freedom of expression. And since the law does not keep up with the facts - I repeat all the time, it is the 21st century. - so let's change that law over division. Mr Schreiber from Law and Justice would very much like to change this, he really likes it, but unfortunately the President does not allow it. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I'm very encouraged to at least discuss it, really. The Modern Parliamentary Club therefore proposes, as the rapporteur presented here, a draft law amending the Code of Elections Act, as well as the Local referendum Act and the National referendum Act on the abolition of electoral silence. We believe that - two things - the current regulations are outdated, moreover, we share the views expressed by many experts, who believe that the abolition of the silence will increase not only the turnout but also the awareness of the elections made by Poles. Dear Members, about half of Poles do not go to elections, and most often they complain about the quality of governments. On the other hand, we firmly believe that the changes we are proposing will stimulate the spirit of civic responsibility, which was also spoken of by the Member of Kukiz15. Election silence, as we know, does not mean a break in the government's work. This gives the opportunity, unfortunately, to actually break the electoral silence and carry out agitation by the ruling parties. We're familiar with these situations. We know exactly that during the last parliamentary elections, our fellow Member had a concert during the electoral silence. We hope that our project, our idea to change the law, will receive broad support. I address in particular the Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, not so long ago both Minister Ziobro and Minister Gowin, quote, said that the silence of the election was an outrage to our time, and a few months ago the chairman of the State Election Commission Wojciech Hermeliński said, and I quote that it is worth considering whether today's election silence makes sense. And he added that it does not rule out that it will soon be abolished. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The silence of the election is the time... In fact, there is a simple choice ahead of us and we will either take the first effective step over the divisions towards activating citizens and increasing their responsibility for our common destiny, or we will establish a division between those who have been going to elections for years, and those who have for years had no interest in them. Therefore, we would very much like to ask you to support our project and at least discuss it in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Eugeniusz Troublek, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Actually, I don't want to bother you again, but think of one thing - if we did a poll among the citizens, we, politicians, on Friday, if the elections were for example. On Sundays, whether they want us to torture them, I stress, to torture them on Saturdays, to torture them also on Sundays in front of the polls, what do you think the outcome of this referendum would be? Leave us alone, let us rest for a moment - from all of you, all of us. Therefore, this idea is simply a worse solution than today's solutions, which have, of course, their shortcomings in practice, at least the Internet. Therefore, we must not replace, in our view today, what is perhaps unfashionable, obsolete, or even bad, with something worse. Well, move your imagination a little bit - what's going to happen, not in the polls on the day of the election, but in front of the polls when we attack the polling stations? Ladies and gentlemen, they've been here before, in recent years, various ideas coming down even to this, I'm sorry, I'm gonna say it trivially, that you're gonna sit over a beer at home, click and choose. No, the election is a holiday, a referendum is a holiday. If someone feels responsible for their small or large homeland, let him come to the polling place on that day, where there is a state emblem and a national flag, and not that he will click on a beer. So let's give people, at least for the moment, a break from the polls. We are even in favour of withdrawing... extending this period of prohibition for a week, two weeks before the election, so as not to publish polls, because, let's not hide it, the polls actually have a large impact on the final behaviour of the indecisive voters - undecided whether to go at all and who to vote for. Therefore, like the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, we will vote against this proposal. But I share the view, I am speaking as one of the veterans, that since there are so many different ideas, it is probably necessary to consider in the Bureau of the Sejm, especially now, at the beginning of the term, not at the end of the term, whether it is worth re-establishing the Extraordinary Commission, which would try to face the electoral code once again. There is probably also a new composition of the State Election Commission, the Office of the State Election Commission, maybe there is another, better look, more rational view. In this way we are ready to work and support, but this type of selective solutions - no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u171	Thank you very much. Nine Members have signed up for the vote. I'm closing the call list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Party of this Act wants to eliminate the electoral silence, introducing the possibility of agitation to the last minutes of elections, including near the electoral premises. Ladies and gentlemen of the Modern Members! At a time when the public media are already national and are part of the ruling option, the abolition of the electoral silence means a continuous agitation to the representatives of the known party. We are also looking at a bow towards groups that can afford to campaign intensively and mobilise voters until the end of the elections. Maybe I'll ask you this awkwardly: Is it in parallel with the abolition of the party's silence Modern regulation to protect voters from pushy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] uncontrollably agitated at polling stations and in public media during the elections? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u173	Thank you very much. Now you ask Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is good that we are talking about the electoral code, it is good that the words that can be accepted as a promise, that if not today on the basis of the submitted project, it is the will to sit and talk about decisions in a short time and over divisions. On the other hand, on the topics, issues, points discussed in this bill, I believe that this is in our tradition - and the time of silence, and the ban on publishing polls. As one of my previous speakers said, let us give people after these days a grueling campaign, pressure, pressure of information a moment of rest, at least on Saturday and Sunday - let them think where they are if they want to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will not improve attendance so much by reminding them, by the last minute and wherever possible, of who they are to vote for, which party or candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u175	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the applicant. I understand that the whole project, I hope, is to end with another fiction in our country, i.e. with the so-called. the silence of the election. How in a normal, large European country are we supposed to chase Internet users for likes that support their election preferences? 32% of the population consider the Internet to be a basic information medium. As long as we can pass indifferently as intelligent people alongside clever handling of the law by various organizations or their leaders, e.g. by organizing concerts in London, when a clever leader during the election campaign laughed in the face, organizing a concert in London, because it was slow there. There's too much simple shrewdness and too much inconsistencies and inconsistencies. I was hoping that Mr Schreiber, who showed his human face in the PiS today and basically summarized our project, would affect his club so that he wouldn't reject it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's only because it was brought in by the Modern. I was wrong. Mr Trouble, this is a question for you - the thesis about killing people on a pre-election Saturday. Yeah, we're punishing them because most of the candidates are crazy, and they're dramatically unsubstantiated, and that's why people are sick of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u177	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, the institution of silence appeared in 1989 when the media was called the press, radio and television. Unfortunately, times are changing, and perhaps even fortunately times are changing, and the Internet, including blogs, social networks and, of course, web pages that deal with the current situation in our country, should be added to these media. Ladies and gentlemen, the silence of the election in the times of such well developed Internet already, you can say, virtually does not exist, this is fiction. As you know, most of us use social media. Then I have a question: Is it true that on social networks, a likeness is not a break of the silence of the election, and is sharing a new post a break of the silence of the election? Because I don't really know what it's like. Maybe soon the National Election Commission will ban at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] use of social networks in the course of electoral silence. Ladies and gentlemen, times are changing, and the law should also change. That's why the Modern is asking for the support of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15. You're not here... Oh, there it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question, but I really would like to drop some examples of very deadly and outdated regulations. For example, in France, I do not know if you know, there is a ban on calling pigs named Napoleon, and in the UK until recently there was a ban on dying in parliament. In my opinion, the silence of the election these days, the times of the information society, is an unfulfilled dream. How much was the situation, how much laughter it was in situations where the right authorities wanted to mix up relevant entries on social networks or smuggle out polls in the form of prices at marketplaces. I would therefore like to ask: is your project aimed at eliminating the unfulfilled, [[♪ The bell ♪]] embarrassing our state of regulation? If so, I support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u181	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this question for the Members of the applicant: Isn't it worth taking a step further? Is there a problem in the silence of the election? Here, too, Mr Eugeniusz Trouble was talking about clicking on a beer. I wonder if the bigger problem is that we can create web portals, Emp@tia portals for 50 million PLN - the leader of PSL had a part in this. I would like to ask: Isn't it worth thinking about a project, something that could help with the vote, help with this turnout? Because we're talking about a referendum here, a vote. Wouldn't it help to vote online? I don't mean to click on a beer, because I think it's an abuse, but it's a solution that would allow us to increase this turnout. How do you relate to this? Because the silence of the election is quiet, but it's the 21st century. Are the archaic ones [[♪ The bell ♪]] the ways we're using right now... Wouldn't it be worth it just to go a step further in the 21st century and force it to vote over the Internet? And it's not a typical beer vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u183	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You're... [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As they say, who's gonna stop a rich man? We have a situation in which we have silence, and yet I wanted to ask the question: Will anyone in the current legal arrangements prevent the Prime Minister from cutting the ribbon over the newly opened bridge, the entire television, especially the public, from showing this fact to the Minister, opening a newly opened stadium? Who's gonna stop the musician from performing - of course, the one who's running, who's a candidate for the Sejm? Election silence is a dead recipe not only because of the Internet. It is a dead recipe because there is a group of privileged people who, despite the silence of the election, may be present in the media. These are primarily the politicians of the ruling party. They are the ones who are being shown all day long, especially these days and today, in the public media situation, they will be shown all day long - what they are doing, how your prime minister eats breakfast, how [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Minister's having dinner, which is what each of the candidates for parliament do, who perform government functions. That's why the voter silence is a waste of time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u185	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been voices that the Modern Project is, in principle, correct, restricts the non-compliance of this law to the present times. There have been voices that say that there is an opportunity to improve this project, i.e. additions to certain things that could form a whole. I therefore ask the applicant: Is it really possible to do this work in committee so that this project can be accepted by the House and adopt certain solutions that seem to be most reasonable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u187	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[May I?]] Excuse me. Of course, there's still a representative of the applicants. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u188	Thank you very much, Marshal. One at a time. Mr PiS, Mr Schreiber is no longer here. I am very sorry, because he said that he has been proposing amendments to the electoral code since 2011 and that this must be worked on. So that I ask the Members of the PiS to work with us, because talking about something that needs to be changed and not doing anything in this direction leads to nothing. We have taken up this task. We want to change the electoral silence records, and we will really be happy to work with you on this. So that I would ask you to give this information to Mr Schreiber, who, on behalf of your party, referred to the draft of our bill. The Member also spoke about the polls, about the fact that we leave no polls on election day. But please bear in mind that what else are official polls, official results, and what else is the leak posted on the Internet, which is not an official leak, which is only probable information from polling stations, so that there is not such a translation into voters. In most countries where the electoral silence is abolished, however, the ban on the publication of polls on election day remained. Mrs Lenartowicz from the Civic Platform has made an interesting statement. She said that on the day of the election, on the day of the election silence, during the period of silence, the election decision on who they vote for, the voters take - in 2015 it was 11% In the previous presidential election, it was 12%. The Member said that it is a great deal that such a percentage - I will not quote literally - decides on the outcome of the elections. Of course, we are talking about the percentage of voters, not all of them entitled to vote, so all the more reason for this silence... After that you can see very well how little, how low our turnout is. If 11% The voters decide that, and you can see how low attendance is. So that we should all the more bear this silence because the aim of this project is to increase the turnout rate. That's the assumption. That is the assumption of the applicant. In this example, we see best how low we have attendance and that we have to fight for it. Then there was a reference to online choices. We certainly believe that we must try to make such changes, good changes worked out together - hence the call to the PiS Members to work together - which will lead to an increase in attendance on election day. Mr Jaskola. Oh, Mr President, at one point I must tease you because you have spoken a great deal about the involvement of citizens, about civil society. I know that the Kukiz Group15 has accepted this civic commitment, but I assure you that we also very much care about the activation of all citizens in terms of political life, public life. Hence today's bill on party financing, hence our project on abolishing electoral silence, i.e. taking such steps, which will lead to the fact that this commitment will increase. But, Mr President, please bear in mind that there have been, and it is precisely because of your group, which talks about the involvement of citizens, citizens' projects, which have been half, almost half of your fellow Members - 2 projects - rejected at first reading. So please bear in mind that if we're talking about something, we need to be consistent. If we want a referendum, if we want civil engagement, then let us be consistent. We are. I think we can talk out loud. that in this way we also want to increase the turnout among our voters. What else did you talk about? About voting on the Internet? No, he's another member of the Kukiz group. 10% threshold as regards the referendum. I will take this delicately because, in general, the most important thing in Mr Jaskoly's speech and in all the Members who spoke on behalf of the clubs today was that you wanted to work on these ideas. This is the most important information, because we're really ready to talk. We're ready to change some records. We do not insist that this bill be exactly as it is. So that it is completely illogical what Mr Schreiber of Law and Justice said, that the idea of a good idea that the Member has supported changes in the electoral code since 2011 and therefore asks for the rejection of the project at first reading. I don't get it. In this connection, I am very pleased that Mr Jaskola also said that the project will be supported. We can work on it as much as we can. Mr PSL, Mr Troubles, who is also not in the Parliament at the moment, I am very sorry, there is no, Mr Troubles spoke about the campaigning of voters. Well, to be honest, I wouldn't say that about our grouping. I wouldn't want us to torture voters. I do not know why, on behalf of your club, you are going to torture voters in front of the polls. Of course, we can be concerned that this will be very pushy, but let's agree, we have mature democracy. We do not live in a time when the election campaign is conducted in a very brutal way. Nothing bad's gonna happen in front of the polls. [[What if it isn't?]] If someone tries to get a vote, if someone gives out flyers in front of the polls, that's a good thing, then there's a chance that a person who's going for a walk and doesn't want to vote because he doesn't remember the election because they're not interested in the election, maybe he'll meet someone who wants to talk to him. Politicians are like that. They're the most involved on election day, aren't they? Unfortunately, it does all the time. And the fact that we will give two more days to campaign, that we will endure the silence of the election, and that until the last moment on election day we will allow everyone to vote for their own person, will only make it possible for us to convince ourselves that those who are running for a certain position will be able to continue to encourage them to vote for themselves, and that those who make these decisions may be able to meet more candidates. Let's hope so. Here, the Member spoke about imagination. I don't think we have a problem with that imagination. I think we just believe it, we believe it, and at the same time we know that Poles are as ready as possible not to have the silence of the election, that Poles will do nothing wrong for themselves, that the election campaign, the electoral agitation will continue quietly until the last moment, simply the possibility of extending their candidacy. And to Mr Trouble, which is not there, a note on the vote for a beer. I understand that you are a party that has been in operation for many, many years, and that you are unable to get used to new realities. I am all the more pleased that Modern has had a chance to enter the Sejm, that Modern has a chance to present new solutions... [[I mean, you two have a common candidate...]] ...in Polish politics. [[The candidate...]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] I'll wait. [[...candidate.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr...]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] [[I'm calm.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. President, your blood pressure will drop...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u189	Mr President, please calm down. It's for the envoy on the left.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u190	All the more reason why I'm glad that Modern is in politics and we can present new standards... [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha! Let's hear it!]] ...because every method of increasing turnout is good. With regard to what Mr Trouble said about the vote on the Internet, Estonians have been voting on the Internet for many years, as you called it, over a beer, and the elections are very respectful. So that please really believe in Poles and that these elections will be held in the right way with us, regardless of whether it is a holiday that involves leaving the house or giving young people the opportunity to vote on the Internet and thus simply increasing their turnout. Mrs Navel from the Civic Platform. I'm having a hard time answering questions from people who aren't in the O.R., but I'm gonna ask for answers. [[He's also a common candidate from the Platform.]] Mrs Płępek spoke about the media, about the propaganda of the ruling party in the media when the silence of the election was lifted. Well, that's exactly the opposite. At this point, the ruling party has much more possibilities of agitation on election day than opposition parties, because the ruling party can present in the media its greatest successes, events that are currently happening, its achievements, and precisely opposition parties, parties that do not rule, cannot show such successful undertakings and spectacular successes. So that's exactly the argument supporting our bill. Mr Kotowski, PSL, once again spoke about tradition and that our tradition requires that voting day, election day, be a holiday when it is quiet when we do not talk about it. I will say this again because it was a statement similar to the words of Mr Trouble from your group. I am glad that the Modern has come to the Sejm and that we can make other proposals than those which so far exist, because, as we see, there is no respect for the law at this moment, there is no respect for the provisions of law, for our country, and this must be changed in some way. Mr Furgo from Modern, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It is true that the electoral silence is broken by online likes, by making it available on the Internet. Mr President, I am from the same group and we have been running a modern campaign on the Internet, and we really know how beautifully broken the electoral silence is being celebrated, as all of this is ignored, what you have said, a likeness, a concert in London. Any method of bypassing the electoral silence is allowed at this point, and no one cares that it's a simple violation of the law, right? Mr Truskolaski also asked about likes and sharing on Facebook, but that is a very good question, because this was not mentioned before. The State Election Commission has very serious problems with such situations. It is necessary to determine whether a likeness is a violation of the electoral silence, whether sharing is a violation of the electoral silence, whether it is perhaps not a likeness, and making it available is, or vice versa, making it available is not, and the likeness is already. The statements of the State Election Commission differed in this respect. In the end, it was considered more like breaking the electoral silence. I would like to know how this will be enforced because it cannot be enforced, as we all know. Mr Kulesza, a Kukiz group15, asked a very good question as to whether we intend to put up with nonsense and absurdities existing in Polish law related to the silence. Yeah, we're gonna put up with, exactly, this nonsense, this absurdity. Thank you for supporting our project. Mr Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Group15, whether we want to vote online, maybe it is worth thinking about voting online. Absolutely, yes, it is worth thinking about voting over the Internet, it is worth thinking about solutions that will increase voting attendance, increase citizens' involvement in the electoral process, in public life as a whole. Katarzyna Lubnauer talked about showing in the media the ruling party: cutting ribbons, opening up, ending fantastic investments, bragging about the achievements of the ruling party. All the time, as we know, this has happened and it will happen until we can endure the silence of the election. If we put up with the silence, other parties will also be able to talk about it, and in this situation only the ruling party can say so, and we have a festival on TV on election day and the day before election, a situation where we watch the best achievements of the last 4 years of the governing party, without being able to refer to anyone, because the rest of the politicians do not have the chance to speak. Finally, Mr Jurek Meysztowicz, thank you very much for this question. Mr. Jurk, we would very much like to work on this bill with all parties. Mr. Speaker! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! We really want to put in some good solutions. We really want to bring about a situation where the law is respected, a situation where young voters... Unfortunately, this affects young voters who use the Internet to a large extent. Today I was talking about the fact that for 32% of Poles, the Internet is the first source of information. 20 million users of the most popular social network. We really need to make certain absurdities go away, and we need to work together, because if we give... [[Then send the invitations to Facebook.]] ... Poles can choose, if we believe that Poles are wise, that they can decide for themselves who they choose for politics, why do we decide when they have to decide for choice? So I'm asking you very much to continue working on this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President, for answering these questions. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that a motion for rejection at first reading of the bill was tabled in the discussion, we will proceed with the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Trade Union Act and the Labour Code Act (Print No 225). I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project we've submitted about amending the Trade Union Act raises a lot of controversy, but I see from the room that not much attention. First of all, I would like to make it clear: Modern is behind strong and well-functioning trade unions that care about workers' rights. The amendments proposed by us in the Trade Union Act are only moving towards reducing certain trade union rights and their organisations and introducing full transparency of the trade union financial economy and are in line with the expectations of our voters. The right to workers' association and collective representation of their interests vis-à-vis employers and legislators cannot be challenged in a developed democratic society. The existence of trade union representation increases the efficiency of negotiation and enforcement of labour rights, both at public level and at the level of the workplace, and the statutory guarantee of freedom of association and the setting of limits on trade union rights and obligations are necessary. At the same time, authors point out that in the current legal state trade unions in Poland are equipped with privileges which other social organizations do not have. The result is that employers are burdened with the costs of working relationships and, as a last resort, the burden on customers and taxpayers, because the union is the largest in the public sector. This also causes a completely unnecessary antagonization of relationships with employers, non-associated workers and society, which can be expressed by a systematically falling union or a high percentage of dissatisfied relationships in Poland. In addition, unlike foundations and associations, trade unions are not legally obliged to disclose their finances. Trade unions should publish annual accounts to demonstrate to their members that they manage their contributions fairly and do not abuse their trust. I would like to stress here that the trade union.Solidarity is one of those organisations which, regardless of whether they are obliged to do so, nevertheless present such a report. We think that maybe other relationships should do the same. According to the CSO in 2014, of 19.5 thousand. registered trade unions had only 12,9 thousand active activities. the organisation. Only 2,000. from which it was not part of inter-company organisations. They're bringing together 1,600 grand. persons, which represents 5% adult Poles, 11% all employed and 17% employed under a contract of employment. The largest bond is reported in mining - 72% in energy - 31%, in education - 25%. Transport union reaches 24% , in health care - 21% , in the water and sewage economy - 18% , and in public administration - 15% . Given the number of employees in the sectors concerned, this means that the most trade unionists are teachers - 24%. 12% each trade unionists are employed in industry and health care, 10% in mining. On the basis of these data, with acceptable simplifications, it can be assumed that the public sector is an employer directly, as in administration and education, or indirectly, in companies with a dominant share of the State Treasury, for about 3/4 trade unionists. Therefore, the costs of the privileges are directly or indirectly borne by the State budget. The protection of workers' rights is strengthened in sectors where rights are also guaranteed by additional laws, in particular as regards teachers and miners. This results in unequal conditions for employees and employers of the public and private sectors. The CSO study also showed that 18% unions have benefited from the work of their members during working hours paid by the employer. Only 17% of the unions have more than 150 members, so they are entitled to a full-time union. It can therefore be assumed that all large trade unions benefit from this right and some of the small trade unions benefit from an incomplete working time for their trade unionists. On the other hand, 95% trade unionists declared to use the voluntary work of their members. Thus, the removal of this privilege will not significantly affect their ability to act, since union members are willing to engage in a relationship in their leisure time. Employees usually employ national union headquarters. Currently, trade unions are not legally obliged to disclose financial statements as opposed to other social organisations, associations and foundations. However, some inter-company trade union organisations, including NSZZ.Solidarity, oblige Member States to disclose financial statements, which also shows that in trade union environments there is a moral obligation towards paying contributions to the settlement of their development. Trade union activities are assessed negatively by the majority of the population. In the 2014 CBOS study, 55% The respondents assessed that trade unions were defending workers' rights inefficiently. Interestingly, in the study group that was a member of the compound, this response was 58%. Subjects, 31% considers that the activity of the unions is unfavourable to the country, the opposite opinion is 38% The scale of the trade union privileges in Poland is unique against the background of Europe. In the United Kingdom, the cradle of the Land movement, trade union representatives are entitled to paid leave only for the duration of their specific duties. This requires the consent of the employer and, at the same time, a single specific task to be carried out. The Union shall collect the membership contributions itself or through the employer, provided that it agrees to such a solution. That's our proposal. Unions send financial statements, as well as information on the number of members to the trade union congress, which publishes these documents on the Internet. In Germany, trade unions share powers with staff councils. Of course, in Poland there are also workers' councils and this is also a form of protection of workers' rights in plants. Relationships primarily negotiate wages and have the right to strike. DGB's largest trade union association brings together 3/4 of all German trade unions, finances all its activities from membership contributions and other own income from assets or business activities. I would also like to point out here that in Poland trade unions are very often engaged in economic activity, which is absolutely not reprehensible. They operate this business very often on the basis of the company in which they operate. I think this union cohabitation with the employer is good. Moreover, this brings some profits and a possible possibility of paying the salaries of the union leaders. In France, trade union delegates are entitled to up from 10 hours per month, depending on the size of the establishment, provided that 10% is obtained. support for workers. The union facilities are available from more than 1000 members. What are the differences between the current state of law and the proposed state of law? Currently, the 1991 Trade Union Act provides for the right to be exempted from the obligation to provide work by functional members of the company's management board of the trade union organisation. In the range of 150 to 500 members of the organisation, this is one employee. In the range of 1,000. Up to 2,000. - Three employees. Such employees may be exempt from the obligation to provide work, as requested by the association, with the right to remuneration or free of charge. In the first case, the cost shall be borne by the employer. In addition, art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 imposes an obligation on the employer to exempt the worker from his or her employment with the right to remuneration for the duration of the ad hoc union activity. Similar obligations shall be imposed on the employer in the case of an employee acting in an inter-company union organisation. The proposal provides for the limitation of these obligations only to the exemption from the obligation to provide employment and to the exemption from employment - Article. Points 2, 3 and 6. The employer will no longer have to bear the costs of functional salaries of trade union workers. A change with a similar purpose in effect is also to amend the Article. 258 § 2 of the Labour Code - Art. 2 projects. This amendment also aims to reduce the costs of the conciliation committee on the part of employers. From now on, the management of each trade union will have to seek a greater number of unions or undertake an economic activity to cover staff salaries of activists. In the current legal situation, the employer is obliged to make available to the trade unions, under the conditions laid down in the contract, the premises and equipment necessary for the pursuit of the trade union activity. The draft provides that the employer will only be required to make the premises available, if any, to meetings to discuss matters relating to all members of a trade union organisation or to all employees - Article. Point 1 (4). Art. 33 The Trade Union Act imposes an absolute obligation on the employer if an application is submitted by the trade union organisation to collect the trade union contributions from the employee's remuneration and transfer them to the bank account of the trade union. Following the proposed amendment of this provision, the employer's contribution shall only be made on the basis of an agreement between the employer and the association on the basis of which it will be carried out. A separate issue regulated by the project is the change in the conduct of the financial economy by the union. Firstly, we propose to amend the provision setting out the subject-matter of the Statute, namely the mandatory regulation of the principles of the financial economy of the union. Secondly, the amendment will introduce the principle of the transparency of the financial economy of the relationship, which is reflected in particular in the obligation to publish the financial statements of all trade unions. To date, such requirements have not been foreseen for trade unions in spite of the public nature of their activities. Social, economic, financial and legal impacts. The bill will have a positive social impact. It will contribute to equalising the rights and obligations of trade unions and other social organisations. The elimination of excessive privileges will alleviate conflicts between employers and trade unionists and force trade union activists to take greater care of increasing the number of union members and to take real care of their rights. Unions will have to work more actively to improve the situation of all workers, including those who are not associated, and workers will appreciate the work and commitment of trade unions more than the little productive use of employer's money to maintain the relationship. The transparency of the trade union financial economy will allow an objective assessment of the activities of trade union organisations and their activists and will increase confidence in them. The final result will be an increase in social confidence in trade union activities. The proposed law will not impede the basic union activity. The restrictions introduced by the law will only make the trade union activity focused on really important and necessary issues, because trade unionists will pay for them with their own time and with their own money or a reduction in wages. The effect of this law will be most visible in mining. In mines there are several, several, and even several dozen trade unions. The number of trade union posts already counts in hundreds, and their cost is several tens of millions of zlotys a year. Elimination of these costs will reduce mine losses by around 5% per year. The financial consequences of the Act may be important for individual trade union organisations by the need to take over the remuneration costs of trade union activists. However, they shall be spread over time over the annual transitional period provided for in Article. Four laws. The reduction in union funding will force a more rational spending policy, including in terms of employment, and will create incentives for a more active search for new members. The project does not entail a financial burden for the state budget and the budgets of local government units. The obligation imposed on the Minister responsible for Labour to make available to trade unions a website on which the financial statements will be published should be implemented at no extra cost. The proposal for its regulation is not covered by European Union law. It is proposed that the law should enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. Such vacathio legis in conjunction with the long transitional period in Article. It allows for proper preparation for the application of the new rules by their addressees and allows the Council of Ministers to prepare and issue a new regulation on the basis of Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 trade union laws. The applicants received three opinions on the amendment of the law. The Supreme Court's opinion, which refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 2 June 2015, deserves attention. We did not take this ruling into account in the draft law of the Constitutional Tribunal, because the Tribunal clearly pointed out the addressee of these changes, which is the government. The government should correct, issue a legislative initiative on the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal concerned issues other than those addressed in our draft, and the non-constitutional provisions were repealed, which would allow workers working on flexible contracts to get together in trade unions, and this was the main issue raised in this speech of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would also like to point out that this law can, of course, be controversial, but we believe that, despite the fact that it is a parliamentary project, we could therefore set up a fast path, we want you to try to talk to us in committee about your comments, assumptions and changes, which you think would be compatible with those we propose, so that we can draw up a law that amends the trade union law, which is already a little bit archaic, because it is actually from 1991, which does not mean that even the introduction of the solutions that we are proposing at the moment closes the case. We believe - as in the case of the law which was also presented just now, and the silence of the election - that this is a kind of calling of the subject. We can limit ourselves to the scope that we are proposing for now, but we can be tempted to consider whether these are enough changes or whether we should not be tempted to propose a new law on trade unions. [[Voice from the O.R.: Eliminate...]] I am asking the High House to accept this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u193	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mr Jan Mosiński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Reading into the bill, we see a strange resemblance to the draft legislative amendments by one of the Members of the Civic Platform. Are we dealing with a plagiarism? The answer to this, as well as another question, is it perhaps an inept attempt to show that the leader of Modern Richard Petru, an inbred child of Balcerowicz and a bank pet, is a titan of organic work, let us leave to the citizens. High Izbo, the amendments to the Trade Unions Act in the Labour Code should not deserve a parliamentary debate, because in a legal sense they have been sloppyly prepared and violate fundamental principles in the area of freedom and union coalition. This principle is inalienable and inviolable, and most importantly, this freedom has been covered by guarantees under the basic law. Applicants in their blind hatred for Solidarity, submitting a bill, knowingly violate many international standards, which have been included in documents giving freedom to trade unions, for example in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms or in numerous conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Let me remind you that these documents have been ratified by Poland. In analysing the proposed changes, we will note that Ryszard Petru, in the interests of the employers' lobby, intends to intervene in union freedom, which is revealed in the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 projects. Such interference should be considered as the need to document the conditions in the case of dismissals. Given the above, I can assure the High House that, unlike the Modern and Civil Platform, we do not intend to go to Brussels and complain that in the Polish Parliament some political groups want to set Poland on fire by means of destabilization of the state, using violations of the rights of freedom and association. Another vague amendment concerns the amendment of the Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the draft trade union law and is to regulate the internal rules of cooperation between the employer and the trade union organisations. The project provides that the organization has the right to convene meetings at the union centre. You can say: nihil novi sub salts, nothing new under the sun. Applicants know very well that ILO Convention 135 guarantees the right to hold meetings at the workplace, which some employers are breaking. A further restriction resulting from Article should be assessed negatively. 33 draft law on trade unions. Under the current rules, the employer is obliged to collect a union contribution from the employee's salary. The proposal proposes a change in the conclusion of agreements. This is a clear elimination of trade unions in the workplace. Another change concerns the clarity of the trade union's financial economy. Well, who, but Mr. Richard Petru, a bank pet, should know that trade unions do not have public funds within the meaning of the Public Finance Act. It should be stressed, however, that we are subject to periodic checks by the CSO and are subject as trade unions to financial reporting to tax offices. We also have a negative assessment of the changes to the article. § 258 (2) of the Labour Code concerning the operation of the Conciliation Committee at the workplace. In this case, it is only a question of weakening trade unions and de facto breaking up social dialogue at the workplace level. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During their speeches, the leaders In modern times, they misled public opinion by telling taxpayers how much it costs to maintain trade union activists. Facts are as follows: costs are low, legally charged and amount to around 0.04% budgets of these companies - based on data from KGHM Polska Miedź SA for 2012. I would like to raise a different point here concerning the privileges of employers. Based on incomplete data, it can be assumed hypothetically that employers' organisations, unlike trade unions, are indirectly financed by the State, i.e. by taxpayers. This is due to the provisions of the Corporate Income Tax Act. Under this law, employers' rights may include contributions to these organisations in the cost of obtaining their companies' income. What amounts could that be? Astronomical. Assuming that three national employers' organisations employ about 5200 000. employees, and the average salary amounted to PLN 3900, we will receive a considerable amount of almost PLN 370 million, i.e. about 120 million per organisation. Mr. Petru, are we supposed to eliminate this relief for you? In conclusion, the real aim of the project is to weaken or even bring to an end trade unions and, after all, trade unions are one of the pillars of democracy, social and national stability. The applicants aren't satisfied with the mourning marches of the CODE, they want to bring trade unions to the streets. Does the Modern Party want to set Poland on fire? [[Joy in the Chamber]] In view of the above and presented project on freedom of association, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, as well as numerous standards of international law... [[Five seconds.]] ... I bring on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice to reject at first reading the draft law on the amendment of the Trade Union Act and the Labour Code Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] by the Independent Posel Club... [[Voice from the room: Modern!]] ...included in Parliament's printing no. 225. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u195	Thank you, sir. I will ask Mr Michał Jaros to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u196	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the issue discussed today at the first reading of the bill amending the Trade Union Act and the Labour Code Act. One element of the functioning of a democratic rule of law is the right of workers to get together and represent them collectively. These rights are implemented in our country within the framework of trade unions. Trade unions have had a huge impact on the creation of modern democratic order, and above all on the construction of our freedom until 1989, which we have had for 27 years. For this, a great deal of respect is due to the union. This also requires effective protection of workers' right to association in trade unions. However, the fact that trade unions are an overprivileged group today cannot be crossed. According to my report on the functioning of trade unions, each year their activities cost us over PLN 200 million. There are nearly 70,000 employees in trade unions. persons. We must finally work out regulations that will not only be privileges. Workers today need real rights adapted to the 21st century reality. The draft law is designed to strike a balance between the interests of different citizens: workers and employers, producers and consumers. It assumes inter alia. exemption of the employer from the obligation to pay the functional salary of trade union workers and the levying of contributions from trade unions, as well as the obligation to make available to trade unions the premises and equipment necessary for the pursuit of trade union activities. The Act is also intended to introduce the transparency of the financial economy of unions through the obligation to publish financial statements. Today, trade unions are exempted from this. The proposed bill abolishes the obligation for the employer to collect the employer's trade union contributions. In return, it introduces a contract between the employer and the company's union organisation. This agreement would specify the conditions, the possibility of collecting these contributions. It should be possible for the parties to enter into an informed settlement on this matter, especially as no other organisation is making contributions from its members through the employer. The draft law also provides for the regulation of local and technical conditions. Today it is an overinterpretation, because many employers, many trade unions interpret this provision as a duty to make their seat available, offices, office equipment for the trade union. Yes, it is an obligation to make the room available, but e.g. to meet a trade union, not throughout its lifetime, for 5 days a week. So the bill regulates it. Other social organisations today cannot expect that someone will offer them this place and the equipment necessary for their activities. The proposed amendments assume that the conditions for making available the premises and the rest of the equipment needed should be laid down in the civil law agreement between the parties. I'm sure this needs to be settled. The proposed proposal also requires the preparation of financial statements to be made public. In our view, any organisation which brings together and collects certain amounts of membership contributions from many workers should account for how these funds are used. Importantly, spending public money is public information. As in the case of politicians, parliamentarians and self-governments, presidents of State Treasury companies or municipal companies, the information should be public in this case. It is certain that trade unions should exist. Their role in the day-to-day work of an employee is invaluable. However, we need to adapt the outdated regulations to the realities of the 21st century. The Act has been in operation since 1991. After all, at that time the economy was moving from a centrally planned economy to a market economy. These realities were dominated by state-owned companies, employing many hundreds and even thousands of people. Today is a completely different situation in the economy. We need to give the unions real rights and obligations. According to a study by the Central Statistical Office of 2014 the public sector is an employer Even for 75% of the union. This leads to clear conclusions. Most of the costs incurred by trade unions are costs borne by employees and these are borne by employers, and if this is 75% state-owned companies or public institutions, these are borne by public finances, that is, by every citizen. We can't stay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Indifferent to this fact. Your Marshal, if I could just ask... I'm done. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: The end. Time.]] Unfortunately, the bill lacked a serious reflection on the functioning of trade unions in the 21st century. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Time is up.]] Today we need to start a broad discussion and work together to reflect on the contemporary role of trade unions not only in these large companies, but also in small companies where trade unions do not work today. The employees of smaller companies also need support and protection of their rights. [[Voice from the room: Time.]] As politicians, we have to start...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u197	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u198	...public debate on this subject. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Time, Marshal.]] That's why on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I recommend...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u199	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u200	...including the opening of a public debate to start work in committees on this bill. This debate, the debate on the role and functioning of trade unions in the 21st century... [[Time!]] ...in 2016 it is very much needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u201	Thank you very much. Please speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 by Mr Jarosław Porwich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the proposal prepared by the Modern Poselski Club for the amendment of the Trade Union Act and the Labour Code Act. First of all, I had a moral dilemma, because it's not in my nature to massacre something that had already been subject to a lot of criticism, but I assumed that if something was asked for it, then go ahead. I'll start with the position of the Bureau of Studies and Supreme Court Analysis. In the draft opinion, referring to the four main aspects of the project, it was stated, inter alia, that the proposed change was based on non-legal criteria, in order to replace paid dismissals for the duration of the ad hoc activities resulting from the free trade union function. With regard to the abolition of the employer's obligation to collect the trade union contributions and the introduction of the employer's possibility of collecting these contributions only on the basis of an agreement with an association organisation, it was concluded, inter alia, that the employer could thus treat the trade union organisations operating in this respect differently. With regard to establishing the obligation for trade unions to make public their financial statements, it has been stated, inter alia, that such an obligation would constitute an excessive interference in the conduct of the trade unions' activities, as they would have to make known, including employers, in particular the state of the funds collected in the strike fund and the expenditure made out of that fund, which would clearly be contrary to the legitimate interest of the trade union. On the other hand, as regards the costs of the conciliation commission in equal parts of the employer and the employer of the trade union organisations, it was found, inter alia, that their existence serves the interests of employers and individual workers, and not the interests of trade unions, thus the cost of trade unions has no reasonable justification. These are only some reservations of the Supreme Court to the draft submitted, which, in the light of the observations submitted, considered that the draft law submitted, I quote, should not be subject to further legislative work. Furthermore, it is not possible to refer to the mere justification of the draft law on the publication of financial statements. In the explanatory memorandum to the project we read: Currently trade unions are not legally obliged to disclose financial statements as opposed to other social organisations, associations, foundations. I'm telling you, it's not true. They have no obligation to do so, neither associations nor foundations nor employers' organisations. Only public benefit organisations have such an obligation, which is understandable because they receive 1% personal income tax. Trade unions are financed by membership contributions, i.e. private money, not public money. In addition, they report to the tax authorities. Each member of the union shall have the right to review the financial statements of the association. With regard to the financing of trade union activities, premises, employment, etc. you write that thanks to savings, employers will be able to increase investment or improve the conditions in the workplace. If the employer wants to increase investment or improve working conditions, he will simply do so, certainly not with these possible savings. So why don't we just put a 16-hour working day into savings and eliminate the constitutional right to get employees together in trade unions. [[Applause]] With regard to the abolition of the employer's obligation to collect and transfer trade union contributions, the proposed amendment, as the Supreme Court has stated, may lead to unequal treatment of trade unions. In addition, however, with the employer's bad will, the employer's failure to sign the agreement will practically prevent trade unions from collecting the contributions from which they are maintained and thus prevent their normal functioning, in particular in large companies. Because let's answer the question, like. contributions are to be collected in the Brown Coal Mine of Turów. 2630 employees, of which approx. 94% belongs to trade unions, dispersed, working in an area of 26 km2. How do you collect contributions? [[In the can.]] Or 50,000. trade unionists from the Polish Post Office working in 5 thousand. post offices scattered all over the country. Instead of a short electronic operation carried out by the employer - a multi-day and monthly collection in the hat? It'd be some kind of farce. The only thing you can agree on is the statement... As you write, the scale of trade union privileges in Poland is unique against the background of Europe. You're right. But I'll add: uniquely low. But it's not the scale of privileges, it's the scale of privileges. It is precisely at present that the low scale of trade union rights in Poland translates into a low union. For about 15 million union workers there are only 11%. We are in the EU's tail, and we are to chase Europe, equal to the best. For example, Scandinavian countries: union - about 70% , in Sweden, the salaries of activists and the costs of trade union activities, premises, media, telephones, training are financed [[♪ The bell ♪]] by employers, the UK, France, Germany: trade unions are very influential, they have more rights in relation to employers, they are much more civilized, the law is more readable. The head of Modern Ryszard Petru, who recently discussed Polish matters with the former Belgian Prime Minister Verhofstadt, currently MEP, could learn that similar standards are in Belgium, where every other worker is a trade union worker. I'm almost done, Marshal. To sum up, the proposals contained in the draft law submitted by the Poselski Club are anti-working, anti-social, and therefore anti-civil. Despite the explanatory statement, it must be said out loud, false concern for the quality and level of the trade unions' activities, these proposals are clearly beating. in the independence and self-government of trade unions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u203	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u204	I'll tell you more, they're going to weaken them and even destroy them. Modern Parliamentaries, do not take the anti-union road of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u205	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u206	Is the introduction of 19th-century employment relations a modern state? I'm almost done, last sentence. Finally, I will say that the Kukiz Club will prepare solutions that will adapt the right to international standards for the 21st century, eliminating pathologies that exist on the line employers - trade unions... [[Time!]] ...remembering, however, the assumption that an employee is an entity, not an object. To sum up, the Kukiz Forum Club15 requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u207	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u208	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Porwich presented here, I suspect that the casual standard setting of cases by the union side: it is impossible, it is simply impossible. It's standard, that's what we're used to, but it's not the best way. Please don't go this way. Yeah, I can do that. Everything can be done, but we need to discuss it, not close ourselves to the arguments of the party that is taking the initiative. But going back to the point, at first I wanted to quote the words of one of the most important, I think, people in the government of Law and Justice. These words fit into the nature of our project and show that the opinion of the Modern and its voters is not isolated and has even a cross-party dimension. And I'm gonna ask you right away if you know who said that. I quote: Reducing the enormous power of the union bourgeoisie is one of the most important tasks of the future term. Who said that? Do you know? [[Member Paulina Hennig-Kloska: President. President Jarosław.]] No, I'm afraid not. Ladies and gentlemen, Vice President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Science and Higher Education Jarosław Gowin said so. Minister, wherever you are, we agree with this in all its lengths, and on top of that, we've decided to do something about it. Ladies and gentlemen! We propose the following changes, which will lead to the professionalisation of trade unions, to the fact that union activists will first take care of all workers and trade union members and not the interests - using the terminology of Minister Gowin - of the union bourgeoisie. The first amendment concerns the introduction of the principle of self-financing for trade unions. We believe that self-financing by unions will contribute to a better use of union resources, to the fact that trade unions will place emphasis on the quality of workers' work and not on the number of unions in the plant. Poles are reasonable: if their contributions affect the salaries of the union heads, they will make good use of it. I think good relationships will also pay more. The other two issues concern the liquidation of the obligation to provide premises for trade union activities and the transfer of the obligation to levy trade union contributions to trade unions themselves, unless the relationship and the employer agree on this matter. It is probably unique in the world of solutions - the fact that employers have an obligation to provide professional associations with premises for their activities and the obligation to pay contributions regardless of whether there is one relationship in the establishment, whether there are 200 or 250. And that's the case, too. These are the huge costs, Mr President, going into the billions of zlotys that employers bear. These are the costs. also for the state budget and these funds could be better used. We must also note that the costs of trade union activities are borne by the employer regardless of how many employees are in a given relationship and whether the relationship takes care of all employees or solely of its activists and possibly members. Another issue concerns the obligation to make trade union accounts public. We want the unions to have an obligation to publish their reports on the Internet so that everyone can learn about what trade union funds are devoted to. We believe that union members have a right to know, as do members of all other social organisations, how the union manages their property. Besides, we don't think trade unions would mind, e.g. Solidarity itself, sir, publishes such reports and nothing bad has happened to anyone, so that I am surprised that you have come here with such a tirade. [[The union members have the right, and we don't.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: It is a matter of not having a Member.]] [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: For members, not for Members.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that's a fundamental principle. The publicity of trade union finances is a fundamental principle for these unions to function smoothly. Ladies and gentlemen! The relationship in Poland is estimated to be around 5% the general population of adult citizens. Perhaps everyone will agree with me that this is quite weak, especially since we regularly receive signals of unequal or unlawful treatment of workers. And here I wanted to make it clear: Modern absolutely is behind strong and well-functioning trade unions, who care about workers' rights. [[Hypocritical.]] We held, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest public consultation in Poland. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Hypocrisy. Who?]] There has never been such a great public consultation in Poland. The subject of trade unions during these consultations was very widely discussed. [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: Who have you consulted?]] We know what Poles think about trade unions in this case. [[Employers.]] They don't want to see again using the words of Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, a privileged bourgeoisie. Poles want modern, modernized and competent trade unions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Employers want to talk to specific, well-prepared professionals to ensure stable and compliant employment, but also to ensure the stability of companies under different market conditions. That is why our project is in the interests of both members of trade unions, our entire state and entrepreneurs and therefore deserves support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It was for the communes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u209	I would ask Mr Krystian Jarubas to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u210	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Trade Union Act and the Labour Code Act. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Trade Unions Act of 23 May 1991, which is subject to the proposed amendment, has not been amended since its introduction. The historical context itself and, currently heated, personalities make it seem reasonable to think about complex changes in this area, although it must contain elements of a rational approach, with understanding of trade unionists and employers. According to the justification of 3/4 trade unionists, they are persons remunerated by the public sector. In this context, the remuneration of functional persons for the duration of their duties will not be financed by the employer. As far as this is concerned, since associations and foundations in most of their activities benefit from the voluntary work of their members, mainly through voluntary contributions or voluntary contributions, there is no reason for trade unions to be different. Today, union activity is something other than that of the 1980s. Transparency and credibility are attributes that trade unions cannot miss. Chapter 4a of the proposed law should therefore be considered as the right direction. Similar rules concerning associations and foundations, particularly those with a statute of public benefit organisations, must confirm this. Consideration should also be given to the possibility of introducing the provisions of the Trade Unions Act into the Labour Code, which must be a reference point for the interpretation and application of these standards over and over again. It appears that the possibility of setting up a trade union with the participation of 10 entitled, as provided for in Article, is possible. The 12 trade union laws are highly debatable. There is a rational argument to increase the number of eligible workers to 20. This guarantees a stronger representation of workers' interests and potentially higher contributions. This will also help to build relationships wherever needed is really strong, and motivation is high, and prevent fragmentation and pathology. The PSL Parliamentary Club calls on all political forces and trade unionists to talk about modern thinking about the role of trade unions and the participation of the state as an employer for most of them in building a model that will safeguard the interests of workers in a maximum way, while taking into account the need to preserve jobs and discipline of public finances. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u211	Thank you very much. 21 Members were included in the list for questioning. Anyone else want to sign up? You're an MP, too? That's 22 people in total... 23. After the first question - let's make a deal - I'll close the list. I would ask you to ask Mr Bogdan Latosinski, the Law and Justice first question. Time is one minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am paying close attention to this debate. I'm gonna keep this project. As a longtime trade union activist, I will keep this project on the top shelf, because you are quoting - I have a few questions for applicants - you are quoting that there is a small bond, especially in the public sectors, and then you wonder why it is. Yeah, that's right. Look at you -- you've been waving your constitution here recently -- art. 12 constitutions: the law of association, and see what it looks like. I have a question: Has any of the applicants been to a union organization and know what work on the other side looks like? [[The question is, was he working?]] [[Weak.]] Next thing. Proposed changes by applicants - what are they aiming at? I would like to hear, because when it comes to what I read in the explanatory statement, it is simply that you do not even believe it yourself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On one side there is an employer who pays contributions and can include it in the cost of income, on the other side there is an employee who is supposed to come from work and socially...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u213	I'm asking you to ask me another question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u214	...to stand up, face...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u215	...Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz.15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's how I listened to modern politicians, the Civic Platform and the PSL, and I'm gonna say yes. After hearing so much out of their mouths of ridiculousness, information that is generally inconsistent with the sort of goals that they present here and, above all, how I hear in it these huge levels of hypocrisy, which appear, among others. In saying that: we do it in the care of trade unions, because we want them to be strong, I don't know where I am. And, of course, I would like to ask a rhetorical question. Do you really believe what you're saying? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u217	Mr Eve Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, persecution for union membership and activity in Poland is unheard of in other countries of the European Union. It doesn't happen in civilized countries. There are dismissals, beatings by security on behalf of the board, blocking payouts, wages. Such cases are found in courts, in labour courts. The problem covered by the Act falls within the scope of the Social Dialogue Council. Was this project subject to consideration by the Council? Could the social partners, employers and trade unions lean on it? Let me remind you that the Law of 23 May 1991 was adopted in the framework of a dialogue. Have applicants taken into account that social dialogue is one of the constitutional principles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question: Have you ever thanked trade unions for not living in communism? [[Applause]] [[We thanked Lech Wałęsie, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u219	Member of Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, I would like to ask the applicants what is the basis for them. has led when they propose to amend the article. 258 § 2 of the Labour Code on the cost of the work of the Conciliation Commissions? These are the bodies set up at the workplace to which workers may request mediation in the event of a dispute over employees' claims on employment relationships. They serve both employers and employees. That's why my question is, where did you get that idea? And second question. The Supreme Court's opinion is not gracious to the project. It claims that the proposed changes are selective and do not consist of [[♪ The bell ♪]] a specific whole, which would be based on very general assumptions. The drafters failed to take into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2 June 2015. Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u221	I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz15. You're welcome. Excuse me. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki is even earlier, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In my opinion, the planners do not really know what role trade unions play in the workplace and what is the purpose of the law, which provides for the so-called 'law'. union jobs. I would therefore like to remind you that trade unions aim primarily at maintaining jobs in the company and negotiating the best possible working conditions and wages for workers in it. It should be borne in mind that what will be negotiated with the employer in the course of the negotiations applies not only to trade union members but also to the entire class, the entire crew. Thus, trade unions act in the interests of all persons employed in a given work establishment, not, as often as can be heard, only in the interests of the members. President Lech Kaczyński was a great friend of trade unions and workers' rights, and union privileges are not a great innovation on a European scale, but a complete norm and a great civilization achievement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - unless Mr Petru strongly prefers the solutions from the end of the 19th century and this is what he believes in in the project submitted. Law and Justice represents not only the interests of workers, but also employers, and strongly prefers solutions of the 21st century, and the country you prefer... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u223	I would like to ask Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u224	I think it's to go back to the wall...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u225	Mr President, please leave the speaker. Mrs Barbara Chrobak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The role of trade unions is to protect workers' rights as well as to participate in the regulation of workers' rights. Under the conditions proposed in the draft, trade union organisations could not perform their duties during working hours as this would entail the possibility of dismissal of the employee. For several years I have been working in trade unions and I know what trade union representatives are exposed to in practice. Trade unions are created in institutions such as courts and prosecutors' offices, where the law should be respected and often broken. What is this project going to do? Who's gonna defend workers' rights? In fact, these changes aim to eliminate trade unions, strengthen the position of the employer and leave the worker to himself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u227	I would like to ask you another question from Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am one of those less significant union activists of 1980. I am a trade union activist who has recently worked on the management board of the region of Solidarity. I am a trade union activist who, with the stubbornness of 17 April 1989, asked for the re-registration and legalisation of independent self-government trade unions, because if not, there would be no democracy in Poland and just a few weeks ago you would not be able to wave a constitution. Today you are waving a project that I read with embarrassment. I have a question: Is there at least one union member in your ranks, any kind of... [[There it is.]] ...are you merely representatives of employers, bankers? [[One is.]] Because you're talking about union privileges. There's no such thing, they're rights won. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And remember: social dialogue is primarily about sides. The main sides of this social dialogue are not political parties, but, above all, employees on the one hand, on the other hand employers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u229	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Luke Schreiber, Law and Justice. Are you an MP? [[There it is.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it has to be stressed that you have achieved two successes. Firstly, within four months of Parliament's action, the first draft laws were sent - too much is said - these are new laws - secondly, the applicant has read the justification for the draft. Unfortunately, this must end with praise. This project is sloppy, this has already been discussed, the justification of the Supreme Court. But even more interesting in this context is that you criticize law and justice so strongly for everything we do, for the laws that are being brought forward, and you considered that the most important thing for Poles is whether the silence prevails on Saturday and what rights to take away from trade unions. My question is this: With whom [[♪ The bell ♪]] there have been consultations on such a large scale and have these consultations not ended with reading the results of CBOS studies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[With the employers.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u231	I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First, I will appeal to what the Member has said. Of course, these three laws are on the agenda of today's proceedings, but I would like to say that our laws on the Constitutional Court, public finances and balanced budget, including your idea of CIT - 15%, are also in the Sejm. - and increase the amount of depreciation. I propose that you allow them to be discussed, then we will also consider very important problems. On the other hand, as far as questions are concerned, I would like to ask you two questions. First of all, is it true that there are large companies in which there are even dozens of trade unions? Secondly, is it true that there are companies in which the bond exceeds 100% because there are trade unionists who belong to more than one trade union? And what does that mean for your employer? [[This is not possible in the case of "Solidarity'.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u233	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern does not question the fact that trade unions should take care of the protection of workers, but we believe that this should be their primary action, not their involvement in party policy. [[Oh, that hurts. It hurts.]] Hence the question to the applicant: Does this project actually focus on the fact that trade unions are primarily concerned with the protection of workers rather than... [[If you'll be supported by solidarity, that'll be okay?]] ...starting an election, for example? And I wanted to refer to what Mrs Tomaszewska said, asking whether the project was being consulted. We talked about him during the polling campaign. I'd like to ask you why you didn't ask me when they were being processed, for example. the Constitutional Court Act, the Prosecutor's Office. Why didn't you ask for consultations when the legal acts that were fundamental to our country's system passed in the Sejm without any consultation? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u235	The next question will be asked by Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u236	Mr Mosiński, the designation by you and by other representatives of the Law and Justice of Ryszard Petru as a bankers' favorite in a situation where the deputy prime minister of your government is cr?me de la cr?me of Polish banking, i.e. former president of one of the largest foreign banks in Poland... [[Cream della cream.]] ... making money a day, about which not only the average bank employee, but also the trade unionist, even in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, can dream, is now pointless. I'd suggest you give up that kind of distraction. [[Applause]] Secondly, Mr President, the true role of trade unions, as you see them, will soon remind you of the miners, the miners who are now saying on TV: How did we send them leaflets, and now they will close our mine? Yeah, you're gonna have to shut down those mines, and we've already talked about that in the election campaign, unfortunately. Question for Mr Meysztowicz. I've reviewed the complaints to the State Labour Inspection. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I read that 37% of complaints affect employees, 24% - from former employees... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ... and 19% These are anonymous complaints. These are complaints of violation of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u237	Please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u238	What percentage affects trade unions? [[Voice from the room: It's already over.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u239	Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a request for you, Marshal, to treat all Members equally. The design of the change...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u241	I'll give every Member 10 seconds, sir. You too, if you're ten seconds late.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u242	It's about your marshal, not about me, it's about the colleagues you turned off the microphone for. [[Applause]] The bill's draft amendment prepared by the Modern Party hits workers' organisations and workplaces in a heartbeat. I therefore ask: Is this state of modernity supposed to be about taking control of trade unions, because they seek to improve working conditions and wages, oppose the exploitation and mobbing of workers, show a profit gap between excessive earnings of managers and workers' wages, which are often not enough to meet basic needs? This project is nothing more than a further drainage of workers who are trying to limit the ability to act in defence of their own interests and, above all, to maintain dignity in this uneven confrontation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u243	I ask Mrs Monica Rosa from the Modern Club to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Is it true that 15 employees are enough to set up a trade union organization? [[10.]] Zoz, not a union. At the same time, these 15 people become members of the management board of the ZOZ and therefore cannot be released. Is that true? The second point is... [[Why can't you? Yes, you can.]] Only in the event of a proceeding - alcohol, etc. Yes, sir. Second thing. The Trade Union Act, the Law on special rules for the termination of contracts with employees, the Commercial Companies Code, the Labour Code, the Penal Code, the Law on Recovery, impose criminal and material liability on members of the management boards and supervisory boards of undertakings for acts to the detriment of the undertaking or for the omission of such actions described by law. On the other hand, it is necessary in many cases to work together with ZOZs, employee councils or trade unions. There are situations, and this is happening now in Silesia, which will particularly affect the Law and Justice that it is impossible to reach an agreement, [[♪ The bell ♪]] such companies are bankrupt to the detriment of the State Treasury, suppliers and the whole company.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u245	Please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u246	And that's what happens in mining right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u247	Another question. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the applicant Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz: Why do you want to eliminate trade unions? Is it to please employers and big corporations so that the employee can't defend himself? If you follow this lead, eliminate everything. Maybe sell the land, maybe the woods, air? I recall that once there was such a popular youtuber, so to speak, Mr. Krzysztof Kononowicz. He said, "Let us vacate everything, nothing will be destroyed before it is built." Is that where we're going with this? Tell me who is to be used to liquidate trade unions, what Poland was based on. We know they're so... We see in the media what's going on with Lech Wałęsa now. But are we following this lead? It wasn't all bad back then. We can't bring this to an end to trade unions. Who's it supposed to be for? I'm asking you to answer that question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u249	I ask you to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicant's representative immediately at the beginning, as he presented the project, said that Modern is behind strong trade unions. And I read it thoroughly. It turns out that this project absolutely contradicts that. The project is aimed at weakening trade unions. And my question is: Is it really possible to say on the one hand that trade unions have the greatest contribution to the current shape of Poland, and on the other hand to reduce their functioning, and preferably, in guesses, to eliminate them? Who does that serve? Do you really believe that modernity is an attack on workers' rights? [[Voice from the courtroom: No, to the tribunal.]] It's really not that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u251	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant: Is it true that the Modern does not want to eliminate trade unions, but simply wants to bring them to earth? And is it true that public opinion repeatedly shocked information about the horror trade unionists' earnings in Poland, when in some cases these salaries of trade unionists reached even several dozen, tens of thousands of zlotys? [[Joy in the Chamber]] In fact, trade unions have repeatedly shown that they care more about their high salaries, about their privileges, not about employees' rights. First of all, in any conversation with employers, it was this which, unfortunately, obscured them with the main problem of solving important and worthwhile trade unions' problems in the company, in an establishment in which they were supposed to defend the interests of workers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u253	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi. Please, sir, you have a minute now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u254	Marshal, thank you very much. High Izbo, it is not in my nature to enter into conflict and it is not in my nature to be drawn into conflict, but this time I did not endure. My question is simple: Who asked you for such a childish but very bitter bill? Second question: Have you had the opportunity to read the constitution which one of your Members said is the Bible, that it is the Bible? It is the Bible that sometimes needs to be read, not proposed a law that clearly violates this constitution. Thirdly: Have you had the opportunity to look at some of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, which spoke about the Trade Union Act? We must not violate the basic principles of this country, and for the current pleasement of someone, we must not destroy the state. Mr. President Lech Wałęso, please come here and tell them how it's done. I call on you not to deal with Bolka's issues now, but to save relationships again. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u255	You're welcome. The next question will be asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Civic Platform Club. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u256	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was in the process of preparing this debate. I was in consultation. not only with employers, but also with employees, including trade union activists, whom I have quite a number of, both of these old dates, from the first, Solidarity or from the end of the 1990s, as well as the current ones. Indeed, some changes in the regulations in force - you can see with the naked eye - are needed. Therefore, my two questions to the Members of the applicants, but addressed de facto more widely. In this debate, if she, I hope, goes to committee, isn't it worth addressing really two issues that, from the point of view of employers, but also trade unionists, and workers really need to be regulated? Firstly, the question of the representativeness of trade unions, which gives the power to both these material and these political aspects of the representation of workers during the negotiations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the second point - ending with something that is actually absurd, with the possibility of belonging to many trade unions in one workplace... [[Sure, of course. Bravo!]] ...which results in more unionists than employees. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[For the first time, I clapped to Mr Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u257	Please, another question will be asked by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going to ask you a question about a part of the justification for the amendment of the law that the Modern Club is bringing forward. Namely, you wrote that thanks to your bill and the changes you propose, the losses of mines will decrease by 5%. That's what it says. And I wanted to ask you, find out the details of how these losses... 'Cause I don't know if these union guys are picking up anything, coal or anything. [[Joy in the hall, applause, bell]] [[The rail, the rail...]] So please just show me specifically how the restriction of trade unions will contribute to reducing the losses of the Coal Company. 'Cause that's what it looks like those union guys were misinvoking the board, and that's why this board was making mistakes and increasing losses. So why don't you just justify it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u259	I remind the Members of the Kukiz Club15 that we are in the plenary room. I ask Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club, to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to say, of course, that we can function where we function with solidarity. Except it wasn't a union at the time, it was a social movement... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, pal, I've been there, I've been creating, I know. [[Voice from the room: I was, too.]] [[Voice from the room: Me too.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...led by Lech Wałęsa, whom you want to destroy so badly right now. But I have a question for the rapporteur on one point. A year ago, when there was a discussion about coal mines, about the Coal Company, it seemed that the average wage was PLN 6700 gross. At the same time there were voices of workers, miners, also working on the ancestors, that they had about 50% This. At the same time there was such information that in these mines companies, parts of companies set up by trade unions, and these companies do not pay these salaries [[♪ The bell ♪]] comparable to the remuneration for the same work of mine workers. Is that correct? Do you confirm what you said that there's nothing wrong with that and that there's nothing weird about it? Because I think it's pathology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u261	I would like to ask you another question by Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u262	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! There have been a lot of trade union representatives in the plenary room, but I think you all have to admit that it is true that despite these premises, employers' contributions or employers' wages are decreasing the number of trade unionists. It's not random. Trade unions were mentally concrete in the '80s, and they can't convince their employees that they're working for them. Maybe because they just don't. During the modern consultation, the privileges of trade union activists were pointed out as the most appalling to the contribution of these activists to reality, to social life, etc. I will ignore the silence that for many Poles the symbol of modern solidarity is a bowl for Casperk, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. Yorka President Duda, who was supposedly provided by a union center. [[He's... he's gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u263	Proceed with the question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u264	And I wanted to ask you a question. Is it true that according to the efficacy studies, 55% of compounds are dissatisfied Poles... [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u265	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, I would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u266	...and even 58% of the union members? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u267	I'm asking the Member. [[Why does your marshal turn off one and the other one doesn't?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is it true that the law is designed to undermine the protection of workers' rights? After all, trade unions are primarily called upon to protect workers' rights. And at this point, I want to discredit all the lies that are falling down here, because we care about healthy privileges, common sense, not playing around and putting in extra money the inventions of union managers. Relationships, yes, but based on healthy rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u269	And the last question will be asked by Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u270	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question, of course, to the Member of the applicant: Do you have any idea how many trade unions work in the so-called. micro-enterprises, such as those employing up to nine employees, and what is the degree of association primarily in mining companies, how much does the employees have not only in trade unions, but above all how many trade unions in these functioning trade unions? How many are there? That's it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u271	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed and then the representative of the applicants of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no government position towards the parliamentary project, but I can give you a recommendation from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy on the position presented and a brief comment on this discussion that took place here. First of all, my vote to the applicants and to the representatives of the Modern Club: I have the impression that you did not want to improve the situation with regard to the Trade Union Act, because neither of this project nor of this discussion is the result. It seems, however, that you meant once again to bring the subject to the discussion, and the issue is serious, because anyone who has knowledge of the functioning of trade unions knows that today the situation of trade unions is much more difficult than it was even in 1980. And I say this from my experience, which I have, but also from the information that comes to us. Attempts to establish trade unions in private companies often end in firing workers from work, organizing themselves in smaller workplaces is practically impossible at the moment. And so, among other things. We need new regulations on the Trade Union Act, but not just amendments to the Labour Code to improve this situation. You are referring to European countries, and you know very well that where there is a good and large union, even in the Scandinavian countries, Germany, Belgium, the situation and the economic situation, and the other is very good. So it's not like where there are strong trade unions, it's against it. In Poland, the union is one of the lowest in Europe. And today, our common interest, but above all the interests of employees and employers, should be that the trade union movement in Poland should be strong, because this trade union movement will improve the situation of all of us, because good trade unions - and these are mostly in our country - who think of the interests of their company and their companies, should serve that. And I think that's the spirit we should go in this discussion. Even in the previous parliamentary term, we adopted a new law on the Council of Social Dialogue, a very important law, because, so to speak, there is a new Council of Social Dialogue as far as social dialogue is concerned, even within the framework of the Tripartite Commission. The first meetings of the board, the bureau, the teams that work are optimistic, there is dialogue, there is talk, because there should be a compromise. I hope that such compromises will also be sought in these matters concerning the Trade Unions Act and the Labour Code. The law, which is contained in the parliamentary proposal, contrary to what you say, significantly limits the rights of trade unions and in some cases makes it impossible to establish unions at all. Not to mention that it is incompatible with the International Labour Organisation Convention and the Conventions, but it is also important that today, as part of the government's work, we are preparing changes to what was raised here concerning the Trade Union Act, which we want to implement, among others. a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal that it should also be possible for entities which do not have the possibility of association at the moment to allow the creation of trade unions. We also want to regulate representativeness, we want to lead to a situation where the level of unionization is not worse, but we also want to regulate the issue that was raised here, which is to count to the representativeness of those who are associated in trade unions. And it's gonna be on a government project. This government project will have a strong discussion at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council, the labour law team, the social dialogue team, so that this project is well worked out and has the acceptance of social parties, because it is difficult to imagine that the trade union laws on labour matters, but also on employers' matters, are accepted in some way outside this body. That is why our ministry's recommendation is negative, and after these voices in the debate we will see what will be the final outcome, but it seems that this project will not continue. As I said, our ministry's recommendation for this project is negative. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u273	You're welcome. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I don't have an easy situation because all the people in this room have spoken, asked questions, and they're going to have to address them somehow. I will start with Mr Mosiński's speech from the PiS. I think that the Member has forgotten that you have won the elections, and this is not an election campaign. I don't think it's appropriate to personally attack the Modern Leader for introducing a project. I think you've got the wrong situation. This isn't the electoral rally where you're going to carry out political attacks on the Modern. I don't get it. [[Applause]] We are not absolutely on the belt of employers who demand us to introduce these decisions. This is your assessment, and I absolutely disagree, and I don't think you have the right to attack the leader of our group personally. As far as the questions are concerned, now I'm gonna ask you a question, but one more word. I wanted to assure all of you that the Modern One is aware that thanks to the trade union.Solidarity, we live in a free, independent country, that these laws, which are... [[Voice from the hall: And to Lech.]] ...we owe it to the trade union.Solidarity and Lech Wałęsie, [[Applause]] Let us not forget this, I am addressing Members of Law and Justice. If you remind us that we are in a free country, don't forget that we also owe it to Lech Wałęsie. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[That's why you're destroying his work.]] Next case. In many statements, in many questions we have been accused of wanting to destroy trade unions. This is complete nonsense, complete. This is not our goal, to eliminate trade unions. We believe that trade unions are needed, and you have admitted that this project is from 1991. I ask: Where have you been for 18 or 20 years when you could change this bill? [[Applause]] Why were there no trade unions involved in amending this law? Because you didn't like it. Because the trade union leaders were right to function in such a framework, do not change anything, because it was good for you. The times have changed, and the public consultations we had during the election campaign showed clearly: there is no agreement for such trade unions, and in particular, and I want to emphasise that we are not against trade unions. [[Voice from the room: in your opinion.]] We are very often against trade union leaders, who represent their interests, not employees' interests, on a good cause. [[Applause]] That's the kind of pathology we're against. There's talk of a conciliation committee. Mrs Mrzygłocka asked why we believe that the costs should be distributed. Indeed, these conciliation committees act in the interests of the worker and the employer. We assumed that these costs should be borne in half. In a situation where there are no trade unions and there is a dispute and there is a conciliation committee, this is covered entirely by employers. Social Dialogue Council. I'm aware that... Here Mrs Tomaszewska spoke about the Council of Social Dialogue. We do not question that there is a place to talk, we do not think that the Social Dialogue Council is not to present new ideas for changes to the Trade Union Act. We appreciate what relationships do, and we are absolutely not against it, but the fact is that trade unions work to a large extent in state companies, 3/4 relationships work there. We were wondering why it wasn't in other companies, why it wasn't in private. I also agree that there is a pathology and that should be exterminated if the employer, by bending the law, violates the law of association in trade unions, we agree. On the other hand, we believe that to a large extent the owners of private companies are afraid that relationships will arise, not only because they will have someone to argue with, but also because this employer is subject to financial burdens and he says very often: why I should still pay for it. Therefore, if we remove this obligation and this employer sees that it doesn't cost him anything, but he will have a partner to talk to about the situation of the company, whether or not it is necessary to reduce wages to save the company... This is where you can do it, but, as I say, employers are afraid and do not do it because of the costs, but when they break the law and do not allow a relationship, we are absolutely against it, such solutions. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki said that we are raising employment cases here. We believe that some trade unions operate in smaller establishments as part of voluntary activities. They don't charge for it. They're really believable. Everyone has a lot of trust in them. Why? Because they do it of their own free will, they don't get paid for it. I think this union guy is the most reliable of all. Mrs. Barbara Chrobak from the Kikuz Club... Kukiz.15. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Kikut.]] Let me put it this way: we are not absolutely in favour of the liquidation of trade unions. This is the thing I say to everyone who raised it. We're not in favor of liquidation. It is not enough, I will say, that these actions that we have taken, we believe, can indeed strengthen trade unions, the role of trade unions. Why? Let us agree that there are some pathologies on the side of employers as well as trade unions or leaders. These pathologies are clearly perceived by society. And this assessment of trade union activities, which is given on the basis of CBOS studies, is unambiguous. Polish society believes that trade unions do not represent the interests of employees. Where's this coming from? Why aren't you guys... I'm talking to people who are related to the relationships they represent. That's not enough, you do your duty, you do your duty, you do your duty to fight for trade union rights and employers. I don't question that, and that's why I respect every speech, even very critical of our project. Why do we think that in some ways we put a stick in an anthill, but just to think about whether it's time to sit down and think about changing the trade union bill? [[Yeah, yeah...]] Isn't the committee where this project would be a place to talk? To not do the same as the PiS, that there is simply no discussion that there is a project, goes without accepting any amendments to the opposition. We're open to compromise, we're open to talk, we're open to discussion. One point is undisputed: it cannot be that one employee is in several relationships and the union is 140%. [[Applause]] I totally agree with that, which means it's possible to find things that connect us. Rather, let's look for it, rather than say: we are not absolutely in favour of it, we believe that they want to delete trade unions. [[It's a project you have to write.]] It is true, ma'am, that as far as the defence of labour rights by the State Labour Inspection is concerned, only 2% of the applications are those submitted by the trade unions, the rest directly by former workers, such as, volleyball. This also shows that these union activities are not quite so effective, because I believe that there is room for the really strong functioning of trade unions. Is this project the result of, say, a certain policy? No, we weren't politically motivated, but I'm going to say that we committed ourselves to our constituents to eliminate pathologies and eliminate privileges where we think they're harmful. We thought that certain provisions in the Act were a certain advantage for trade unions, and that is why we have come up with this legislative initiative. And I believe that we are fulfilling, let's say, the commitment that we made just during the consultation, that we will take care of it, just as you think that the implementation of these things that are destroying the budget at the moment is in line with your electoral programme. You have every right to do that. We don't question that. So that we ask you very much not to question our rights. We represent our constituents who expected us to abolish our privileges. Mr Kossakowski says that we want to take over the trade unions. It would be very difficult, because I, as a non-union, have no possibility of being in a relationship, being the head of a relationship, and then taking control of it. Unfortunately, I don't have that kind of power. Richard Petru doesn't have the power to take over the trade unions either. As far as trade union organisations are concerned, the real question is whether or not to increase, let's say, the minimum required to establish a trade union. This works both in one way and in the other way, because in the case of large bets it would indeed be logical, while in the case of the smaller ones it limits the possibility of setting up at all. Therefore, this is also a discussion area. We can talk about it. Here Mrs Michalek asks, a little bit with a big question mark, whether we are in favour of strong trade unions. We think so. We are not disturbed by strong trade unions on one condition: that they take care of the interests of their employees and not care about the interests of their leaders. And that's our main message. As far as the other questions are concerned, I think we're actually trying to... Excuse me, I will answer here Mr Dlugi's question, who asked who was standing, who kind of forced us to file this bill. Let me put it simply: our voters, the people who trusted us. [[Applause]] They demanded it of us. It's okay. [[Voice from the room: Business.]] They have such views, they have the right to such views, they can enroll in trade unions, but they don't have to. [[But they have no right to break the constitution. Period.]] Let's make a deal. If you show me there's a record in our bill that limits the possibility of association in trade unions... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...that's not true. What else is the possibility... [[You're using the fact that there's no tribunal to prove it right away.]] Yeah, it's an appeal to the PiS to just... [[No, it's for you, because the fact that there's no tribunal doesn't let it ruin...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u275	Mr Kukiz15, this is the time for applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u276	Then perhaps we should do so, sir. Law and Justice will lead to the Constitutional Tribunal operating and the State will file a complaint with the Constitutional Court on the non-constitutionality of this law if it passes. Ladies and gentlemen, about... Here was Mr Protasiewicz. I absolutely agree, it's irrational that it might be. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, let's agree that there is room for discussion about the number of trade unions in one workplace. We believe that if there are dozens of trade unions in one workplace, if we assume that everyone has more than 150 members, then how many jobs are there, then there are costs and let's not say that this is small money. Here I'm going to refer to the charge, where the 5% came from. This is Mr Wójcikowski... Well, we're not saying someone took 5%. The point is, if there are so many trade unions in a factory like the mine, there are so many jobs, there are millions of dollars already. So it's not, I mean, it's just... If we remove from our employer the obligation to pay for these jobs, he automatically reduces the loss. That's where the money's coming from, and I think that's a logical explanation. Mr Suchoń, a declining union. Indeed, compared to other European countries, the union is decreasing. But let us agree that not everyone is delighted and not everyone is willing to act in relationships that really do not represent their interests. Therefore, this is your problem, not mine, to increase the union. [[That's the fear of losing your job.]] We want to show this to extend the possibility of trade unions operating where there are no trade unions, i.e. in the private sector, because it is clear that in the state sector the union is holding well. We are looking for solutions to help expand these activities. [[Then enter a record of duty.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've tried to answer most of the questions. Probably not all of them, but some of them have been accused, but one thing is certain that we are acting on the actual data we have in relation to the assessment of trade unions in the public opinion, which is not the best. If you, critics of this amendment, think that there is really time to lean on it, okay, we can talk about it in committees, we can make amendments that you will report, which we will consider reasonable, and that have emerged. We're open to dialogue. I ask the High House once again to allow such a dialogue in committees, i.e. to allow this law to be decided in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u277	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed... [[In corrigendum mode. There was a name.]] Your name? [[Yes.]] Mr President, remind me. [[Mr Wójcikowski, the rapporteur spoke to me.]] [[He didn't mention his name, but he referred to what he said.]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u278	Thank you. Shortly, in correction mode. It wasn't a charge. You misunderstood me, sir. That was a question that you obviously didn't answer, because I wanted to hear specific calculations, specific figures. It turned out that you from the mining industry went to the steelworks, then you went back to the mine and said in the end that, I understand it, the jobs alone represent 5% of the mine's losses. Yes or no? Either you're imprecise or you're precise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u279	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 24 February this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I can't see. I therefore consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. So I would ask you to make a statement by Mr Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers and Members, The bridesmaids and the bridesmaids! The Scout Family in Poland and anywhere else carried you your life routes! We are 2 days after Brotherly Thought Day, i.e. the symbolic memory of the founder of scouting in the world Sir Robert Baden-Powell. At that time scouts and scouts, scouts like the world long and wide send their brotherly greetings and evidences of friendship. So it happened two days ago in our scout family and reality. During this time, too, Mr President of the Brightest Republic, Dr. Andrzej Duda, took over the protectorate over all scout and scout organizations in Poland. Not only do I enjoy this fact, but I share this joy with all the bridesmaids and bridesmaids from the Polish Scouts Association, the Association of Scouts of the Republic, the Polish Scouts Association outside the country, the Polish Scouts Association in Lithuania, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Belarus, Rangers - Poland, European Scouts - Poland, the Scouts School, the Scouts School, but also a circle of green school instructors. It is worth telling you, in this short seymous speech in the Scout uniform, the adult Poles, the parents, the children, that the scouting idea is still extremely passionate, methodically tested and certainly giving your children a chance to grow up to be brave Poles. So I turn to you first, bridesmaids and bridesmaids, thanking you for being, thanking you also for what you are: transparent in attitude, in a system of standards and values, faithful to scouting promises. But I would also like to say a few words to the parents who, perhaps, are from this generation who remembers the sound of the wind in their hair, knows what the starry sky means over us and the warmth of the quenching bonfire. Can you feel it? Do you remember that? Then you might want to do something like this: search your environment for scouting teams, clusters, hustlers and entrust your child to them, responsible instructors and scout and scout instructors. Your child will be braver, your child will be more efficient, your child will experience life. Very often, my dear parents, you are grieving that it is so difficult for your child to get out from under the computer window that he is still stuck in his smartphone, he has headphones on his ears, he lives in a kind of false world. So let her, your daughter, let him, your son, experience real life in a brotherly circle, in a circle based on trust and kindness, in a circle where they can... And you remember that, mother or father, when you stood or stood on night watch for the first time, as every shadow frightened you, like every little bit of a frog seemed like a cannon fire. But then you built your fortitude, then you learned to live properly. And one last thing. Who I am and why I am here is also the result of my scout biography and despite the years I have, I am able today, and maybe not only able, I am ready. [[♪ The bell ♪]] repeat what is most important to us Boy Scouts: I have the sincere will to serve God and Poland with my whole life, to provide willing help to others, to obey the Boy Scout's law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u281	Mr President, it is time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u282	Watch out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u283	Thank you very much. I would like another statement from Mr Jerzy Paul. Are you an MP? There isn't. Mrs Bożena Kamińska. There isn't. Mr Jan Duda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I move on to my statement for today, a brief statement. It has been stated here in this House that we, the people of Solidarity, have the mentality of relationships from the 1980s, so I clearly declare, in the 1980s, independent trade unions did not exist. 63 years ago, on 24 February 1953, a death sentence was executed in the Mokotów prison in Warsaw on General Nilu. General August Nildorf, commander of the Management of the Diversion KG AK, was one of the greatest figures of the Polish conspiracy, the Union of Armed Struggles, the Home Army and the organization NO, and at the same time General Nil was the highest rank commander of the Home Army and the Poak conspiracy, which was in the hands of the post-war Ministry of Public Security and who paid with his life for his faithfulness to free Poland. The paradox of history is that the heroic commander of the underground army was accused on the basis of the article. 1 point 1 of the Decree of 31 August 1944 on the Penalty of Fascist-Hitler Criminals. As a result, the one who led the fight against the occupier was considered a fascist Nazi criminal. The second paradox is that, in fact, for this fact, the murder of the court, no one who contributed to its realization has ever borne any responsibility. The general's oppressors have lived peacefully to their last days either in the country or abroad. In 1991, an investigation into the murder of General Fielddorf was initiated. They included Lieutenant Colonel Helena Wolińska, Prosecutor Benjamin Wajsblech, Prosecutor Paula Kern, Judge Maria Gurowska, jurors Bolesław Malinowski and Michał Szymański, Supreme Court judges Emil Merz, Gustav Auscaler and Igor Andrew. Everyone except Wolińska and Gurowska didn't get an indictment. In the case of Lieutenant Colonel Wolińska, who was in the UK, there was no trial due to the refusal of the British authorities to extradite. Judge Gurowska died in January 1998. Remember that you do not ask them for mercy, I forbid it - these are the words of General Nila directed to your wife Janina during one of the last visits before death. He didn't want to apply the law of grace. He thought grace was for criminals, not for soldiers fighting for independence. He didn't demand grace, he just wanted a fair review of his sentence. He wasn't given it. Like it was not given to priest Władysław Gurgacz, a Jesuit who joined the Polish Underground Army of Independence in 1948. He considered it his duty to provide pastoral care for the partisans. Communists for carrying out half of the Holy Masses and teaching partisans to live according to the commands of Catholic faith sentenced him to death. The prosecutor in the trial was prosecutor Henryk Ligąza, judges Władysław Stasic and Louis Kieltyka. In the last word before the judgment, Father Gurgacz spoke, among others.: These young people you think are not bandits, as you call them slanderously, but protectors of the country. I don't regret what I've done. My actions were in line with what millions of Poles thought, those Poles whose current fate was decided by the bayonets of the NKVD. I'd love to go to death. What is death anyway? I believe that every drop of innocently spilled blood will bring thousands of enemies and turn to your doom. We know the words of a heroic priest from witness reports. Father Gurgacz didn't ask for mercy. Judge me, God, and settle my case. Shots fired. The sentence was executed on 14 September 1949 in the backyard of the Krakow prison at ul. Montelupi. According to the eyewitness, she was shot in the back of the head with a Katyn arrow. In 2008 the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński awarded posthumously Fr. Gurgach the Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. The award ceremony took place on 14 June 2008 in the Jesuit church in Nowy Sącz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the Polish road leading to all the monuments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u285	Thank you very much. Are you Mr Paweł Szramka? There isn't. Mr Stefan Romecki? No. I would therefore like to make a statement by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I dedicate my statement to today's press releases on the revision of the Social Insurance Institution's forecasts of the future of the Social Insurance Fund. Namely, the worst concerns were confirmed and the Social Insurance Institution is increasingly inefficient with regard to the Social Insurance Fund. The demographic situation will, above all, mean that pensions payments will have to be increased, much greater than even the worst projections have foreseen. At the moment, the ZUS verified its forecast. So far, at the moment, the Social Insurance Fund has paid 44 billion a year from the state budget. The ZUS announced that in the best, optimistic option, because it announced 3 variants, a variant that is probably not expected to come true, it will be about 50 billion a year, without the KRUS and without the uniform, because it is an additional 30 billion. So together, all social security is 80 billion. This is an optimistic option. In the 5 year average option, we'll be adding 68 billion to the FUS alone plus thirty-a-half billion to the KRUS and to the uniform. So it's going to be over 100 billion in total. And in the pessimistic option, which is most likely to happen if my predictions and the 500+ programme do not radically stimulate demographic change, but only cosmeticly change demographic issues, within 10% In five years' time, it will be necessary to pay 90 billion to the Social Insurance Fund itself - it was not me who invented it, only the Social Security Office says it - plus more than 35 billion to other social security components, namely KRUS and uniforms. This will give a total of over PLN 120 billion a year. If this does not change, if we do nothing, if we do not debate the matter, then we are facing a disaster that is incomparable with any other disaster, and a problem that is impossible to compare with any other problem that we are debating in this House. I will try to convince my club to report this case to current information, because I believe that there is nothing more important than the worsening catastrophic situation in the Social Insurance Fund at the moment. These are the effects of 20-year-old demographic negligence, pro-family policy, pro-natalist policy. These are the consequences of the non-reforming of the Social Insurance Institution. Ladies and gentlemen, these forecasts I'm talking about, the Social Security Office has placed in the legal realities that are currently in force, i.e. at the current retirement age 67 and 65. If the High House votes 65 and 60 and I myself vote to be clear, back to 65 and 60, those indicators I have been talking about will be even worse and we estimate that this will be at least an additional 10 billion a year. That's something to be reckoned with. So, really, the situation is tragic and requires very serious action. This is my first statement, but I've decided on it because I've spent a lot of time discussing the 500+ bill, explaining the PiS how important it is. I wasn't fully heard, so I decided to make a statement so I could then to say that I was the first to warn and repeatedly repeat that if we do not take this aspect seriously, we are in danger of disaster. All our reforms, all our sanctions of the Republic of Poland will do nothing in the long term, because the crisis of the Social Insurance Institution will consume all the bonuses that will be of the remaining reforms. We need to start with that aspect. We need to make a radical change that will reverse demographic trends that will reverse social security trends. Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki himself admits to me today and gives interviews in the press, saying that we are in danger of disaster. I agree with him. This is the most serious problem, and that is why I am again warning you from this Seymary: Let us immediately abandon all matters that seem secondary and let us address the really serious issue of the disaster of the Social Insurance Fund. Because if we don't, we have nothing to look for. And it's not only that we're going to have a society that's going to grow older, economically inefficient, we're going to go bankrupt. It's just that when it comes to all taxes, all taxes, we're gonna have to cut, all expenses are gonna have to be cut, and there's only gonna be one sack of bottomless Social Insurance Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15, will make another statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On February 24, 1953, or exactly 63 years ago, General August Emil Fielddorf was murdered. Nile - Brigadier General of the Polish Army, organizer and commander of the Kedyw of the Home Army, Deputy Chief of the Home Army, one of the biggest heroes Poland had. He died because he refused to cooperate with the Communists. He chose death instead of betrayal. On March 1, we celebrate the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed. The Sejm passed a law on 3 February 2011. The law states: soldiers cursed, heroes of the anti-communist underground, who, in defence of the independent existence of the Polish state, fought for the right to self-determination and the realisation of the aspirations of democratic Polish society, with arms in their hands and in other ways, opposed Soviet aggression and forced communist regime. In some media, I don't know whether intentionally or premeditatedly, soldiers cursed are called solid soldiers. These wonderful Polish heroes were and are steadfast. Also, some Members, public individuals, use the phrase "soldier soldiers" interchangeably. You mustn't blur history. Soldiers cursed. There was no place for them in the post-war communist reality in Poland. To remember that, we must call them the cursed soldiers. The formula of solid soldiers is extremely careless, after all, soldiers from many Polish wars and uprisings can be described as such, such as soldiers from the battles of Vizna, Monte Cassino or from the Warsaw Uprising. Soldiers cursed, however, speak well of the essence of the struggle between the underground of independence of 1944 and 1963. The living veterans indicated that the name of the cursed soldiers is firmly embedded in history, contemporary art and media transmission and perfectly describes their situation. Under the name of cursed soldiers we understand soldiers of patriotic, independence, national and anti-communist formations, who were cursed and cursed by official communist propaganda for fighting for Poland without Soviets. In order to understand this aspect of Polish history, the name of soldiers cursed, also included in the Act of the Polish Sejm, should be preserved and nurtured. The soldiers of the National Armed Forces also stressed that any other name could be used complementaryly, but it does not express the same content as the cursed soldiers. Out of respect for the cursed soldiers, those who are gone, and those who are alive, let us use the phrase "cursed soldiers." Let us not forget the rottmaster of Pilecki, the Ince and many others. Hello, General Fielddorf. Praise the heroes! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u289	Thank you very much. Another statement will be made by Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! February 17th this year We celebrated the 35th anniversary of registration of the Independent Student Association. On this occasion, I would like to briefly recall the history of the association that was created to focus young people who do not agree on the political reality. The Independent Student Association was established on 22 September 1980. Its creation is linked to the events of August, 80 which expressed opposition to the political regime of that time, although in some academic centres the idea of creating such an organization emerged at the end of the 1970s. The association was established as a result of a meeting at the Warsaw University of Technology representatives of 60 groups from universities from all over Poland. It has become the student equivalent of "Solidarity." The aim was to create an independent student organisation from the state authorities. They advocated democratisation of academic life, respect for political freedoms and human rights and respect for Polish independence and patriotic traditions. In addition to the tasks directly related to students' affairs, the organization supported Solidarity in political terms and opposed communist power, injustice and lack of freedom of speech. The first head of the association was Jarosław Guzy. The Communist authorities agreed to registration of the NZS only after the wave of student strikes, which was particularly visible in Łódź, was passed by the Polish universities. The student's request was not only registration - they also demanded the abolition of the compulsory teaching of Russian language and indoctrination subjects, the abolition of censorship in publishing houses, the introduction of university independence in scientific and teaching matters, and the respect of university autonomy by security services. The official registration of the Independent Student Association took place in February 1981. The government also agreed to some concessions, giving universities greater autonomy. The registration of the NZS did not mean that universities were freed from political influence. This had an even greater effect on young people's idea of changing their systems. One of the greatest achievements of the association was the Law on Higher Education, giving universities greater freedom than ever before. After the martial law was introduced, the organization was banned and many of its activists were arrested. The association was now operating underground. NZS members organized resistance at universities and supported strikers. Re-legalisation took place only in 1989. However, the revival of the NZS and its increased activity took place a year earlier, when the first more massive solidarity actions of students took place on the wave of labour protests. After 1989, the Independent Student Association changed its character a bit. Political initiatives have been limited to represent the interests of students and to pursue cultural and entertainment activities. Current projects carried out by the organization include: The educational programme of the career prognosis, the competition for the best student student of the Nobel student, the National Student Photography Competition or the blood collection action of the vampire. I can also boast of activities in the NZS in the 1990s, during studies at the University of Silesia in Katowice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Dobrzyński from the Law and Justice Club made a written declaration. [[I'm on the committee. I didn't know he was...]] Do you want to make a statement? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the first time I have the honour to make a statement in the Polish Sejm about an event that is extremely important for Poland, whose awareness in Poland is very small. By Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 28 July 2009 the villages Jamno and Łabusz, situated on the coastal lake Jamno, separated by a narrow measure from the sea and connected by a channel, were annexed to Koszalin. From 1 January 2010, these two towns were within the limits of the city of Koszalina and became urban settlements. Koszalin, where you can admire the sea from the windows of the higher buildings, thus gained a direct connection with the Baltic Sea. The awareness of the fact that Poland has come to a new sea town of over a hundred thousand is very small in Poland. This may be surprising in comparison with our historical experiences, especially with Gdynia, which had to be built from scratch at the expense of the great effort of the entire nation, so that Poland would gain more access to the sea and expand its maritime power. The historical experience of Koszalin is similar to that of Poland, whose history can be presented as a consistent process of fighting for access to the sea. The generation of our fathers in the state dimension and the modern generation of koshalian have achieved what our ancestors and predecessors have not dreamed of and dreamed of. Central Pomerania is today a tourist and leisure region, so there will be no ship industry or shipbuilding in Koszalin. But the Central Pomerania, with its natural and landscape assets, with the natural harbor of Lake Jamno, already used by the Vikings, with the Chełmska Mountain adjacent to it, which is the highest elevation on the southern shore of the Baltic Sea, is an ideal place for the development of coastal, Baltic, national and above all yachting shipping. It creates special conditions for the development of a high-quality recreational and tourist base. As a Kosalian, proud of this fact, I would like to repeat the words spoken during the wedding of Poland with the sea on 18 March 1945: "We have come to you, the Sea, after heavy and bloody hard work. We can see that we haven't gone to our troubles for nothing. We swear we'll never leave you. Throwing the ring at your waves, I am marrying you because you were and will always be ours. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u293	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u294	On February 24, 1953, General August Emil Fielddorf was murdered in a communist prison. Nile, former commander of the Kedyw KG AK, one of the main organizers of the fight for independent Poland. He kept a decent attitude in the investigation. He didn't ask for mercy. Before his execution, he told his wife, "Do you know why I was convicted?" Because I refused to cooperate with them. Remember, don't ask them for mercy! I forbid it. A prosecutor's report involved in the execution: I was nervous, tense. I felt my legs shaking. The convicted man looked me in the eye all the time. He was standing upright. Nobody was supporting him. After reading the documents, I asked the convicted man if he had a wish. He replied, "Please inform your family. I said the family would be notified. I asked him again if he had any more wishes. He said no. Then I said, "I'm ordering the execution of my sentence." Kat and one of the guards approached.... I'd call a convict's posture worthy. He seemed like a very tough man. One could simply admire control in the face of such a dramatic event. Respect and memory fighting for free Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-24-sejm-12-1.u295	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 25 February 2016 at the latest 9. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 08]]
