ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). I remind you that the project was submitted by Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski and is included in print No 138 and the report of the committee In print No 138 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity); print No 138. At its meeting on 28 April 2016, the Commission examined, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicants, amended it and requested the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting, proposals were submitted, which were... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, listen up!]] ...accepted. There has been a rather turbulent discussion, but we have come to a compromise and we have agreed on a common position of the committee, we have agreed on a single text which I believe should be adopted today. As we voted unanimously at the committee meeting, I think the High House will also welcome it. As far as the short justification is concerned, I think that there is no need to speak much, because you have already heard my statements many times as the agricultural chairman of "Solidarity." This resolution is indeed also linked to today's exhibition, which will be open at 12.00. So I think you'll be able to hear all the details, the stories, and also the opportunity to listen to the director from the Rzeszow IPN, who will discuss the matter more extensively, so I wouldn't want to do it anymore. But if there are any questions, I'd be happy to address them. Indeed, for us, for farmers, this is a very important event, it is indeed the thirty-fifth anniversary. We remember this day, 12 May, how after great hardships, the buoys managed to register the union, and I will remind you that the workers' solidarity was already in the autumn, probably in November, 1980 registered. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We didn't do anything until May 12 after a lot of hard work, a lot of protests. It was Rzeszów, it was Poznań, it was there that three agricultural unions were united: "Solidarity of the Village," "Solidarity of the Boys," "Solidarity of the farmers of Gabriel Janowski." It was then that we thought that unification would give the chance that if one strong union was represented, then the communist state would allow this registration. Unfortunately, we had to strike bydgoszcz and our stubborn hard actions. It was only the adoption of the Seym Law on May 6, so that he could... Only after the adoption of the Seym Law could the court register the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers.Solidarity. So it was a persistent struggle. Today, after thirty-five years, we are active, and I hope that today, on the occasion of the exhibition, there will still be an opportunity to talk about it. If you don't mind, I'll read the uniform text of the resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of I understand that today, on the 35th anniversary of registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers, Solidarity. Thirty-five years ago, on 12 May 1981, after a long struggle of farmers of the whole country for their right to defend their interests, the first peasant union organization in the history of Poland was registered. This event, culminating in the long-standing resistance of peasants, following the strikes, the Ustrzycki Accords of January and the Bydgoszcz events of March 1981, forms part of the achievements of the great solidarity movement in the early 1980s. The implementation of the idea of unionism by farmers had strong support in the excellent part of Polish society. In addition, the efforts of peasants to have their own union organization were steadfastly supported by the Catholic Church, and personal involvement in the matter and unconditional support of the Primate of Poland, Fr. Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski contributed to her success. Thanks to the registration of NSZZ Individual Farmers, solidarity became possible by the Polish village to defeat the next stage in the fight to restore its equal place in the Polish society, as well as to strengthen the awareness of the subjectivity of this professional group. The historical merits of the NSZZ Individual Farmers for free Poland, the repressive nature of its deploration after the introduction of the martial law on 13 December 1981 and the underground operation until April 1989 give this union the dimension of the symbol The symbol of the emerging identity and awareness of farmers. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the importance and importance of independent agricultural trade unions in Poland, expresses its deep appreciation and thanks to the founders, members and authorities of the NSZZ Individual Farmers, all those who contributed to its formation and registration, as well as those who supported the union and its members. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I ask the High House to support the resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants in the work on this project. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There's a question from Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u4	Mr Senator Rapporteur, Mr NSZZ Solvency, the current president of this union, I would like to ask why the first president of this union, Jan Kulai, was not invited. Is it because of the carelessness or for some other reason? [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u5	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u6	Mr. Marshal, was he invited or was he not invited? We've officially given information everywhere, informing you today... The question is, do we invite the first, the second, the third or any... Well, there wouldn't be room. You might ask why there is no invitation for Lech Wałęsa. You could ask a lot more questions. We thought it was an open invitation, and we, as unionists with RI, we also have our knowledge, we have historical knowledge. And because of this historical knowledge, our colleagues often appreciate these activists, but not always raise them to the highest rank. I can say that. Some people and have repeatedly acknowledged that those who did not want to go further do not have a relationship, not necessarily have to be involved in any further action. Currently, Mr Kulai acts on his own in the economy, does not work in a relationship. We thought the invitation was open to everyone, the Senate is an open House who wanted to come and be with us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u7	Thank you very much. Additional questions from the marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u8	In connection with your reply, Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask how many of the presidents of the RI union, the Solidarity of Individual Farmers, were before you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u9	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u10	Mr. Marshal, this is a short list, I can trade it. As you have already mentioned, Jan Kułaj was the first to be chosen at the convention in Poznań. The second during the period of martial law and post martial law, already during the creation of illegal structures, was Józef Ślisz, Vice-Marshal of the Senate. Then Gabriel Janowski was elected at the reunion in the Championships. The next president was Roman Wierzbicki, who was also the senator of this House and earlier an MEP. And now my person, but after 2 terms, because there can only be 2 terms, there will be a reunion, my term is ending and probably there will be a new president, because I am leaving according to the union statute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u11	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questioning. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Ryszka was the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u12	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 May 1981 the first Polish peasant union party was registered. It's a historic date and an event. The Senate's resolution puts it well and justifies it. However, as the name of the Primate of Poland, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, falls into the resolution, I would like to remind in my speech in the most brief way what was the participation of the Primate of Poland or the Catholic Church in this event. I remember that when the movement of human rights defenders was born in Poland in the 1970s, when the Committee for the Defence of Workers was formed, one of the KOR workers published a book in the West, in which he concluded that he was pleased that the Episcopate also joined the issue of defending workers. When this opinion reached Primate Wyszynski, he described it as grotesque and calculated all efforts in response to the author, he presented the Episcopate's attitude in defending human rights since 1945. It wasn't today that the Episcopate joined. For years, sometimes alone, abandoned by all, we have defended fundamental human rights in Poland. Even in the first days of the strike on the Coast in August 1980, Primate Wyszyński realised his importance. On August 17th, i.e. on the fourth day of the strike, crowning the statue of Our Lady in you, he gave moral support to the strikers and emphasized the right of workers to have their own union, professional representation. He was also aware of the possibility of Soviet intervention, of which he had information from party sources. It's just too many communists wanted to take power after the Falling Game. The suggestion in John Paul's letter was also important. II, sent to Cardinal Wyszyński on 20 August 1980. The Pope wrote in this letter, among others.: I pray that once again the Episcopate with the Primate (...) may help the nation in its struggle for daily bread, social justice and in defence of its inviolable rights to their own life and development (their own way of life and achievements). The emergence of a trade union "Solidarity" began a real breakthrough in the latest history of Poland. There is no doubt that during that time Primate Wyszyński became a true advisor to trade unionists Yes, among other things. on 6 February 1981: this movement must serve primarily the cause of Poland, i.e. the Polish population, whether it be the agricultural or labour population, to satisfy its needs. It is important to be careful not to involve people who have different assumptions, who are addicted somewhere and who want to conduct non-Polish cases. It's hard to name them here. These people want to get Poland involved in political situations. Meanwhile, your movement is primarily a social and professional movement. That's for you, my dears, to remember for a long time, because it's only in this socio-professional work that you will strengthen your movement. And if you ever need your movement to take on political dimensions, it's probably only when you're stronger and organize well in your socio-professional movement. For now, I have to deal with all the downs and downs of the agricultural population and their needs. The Primate, teaching about the freedom of trade unions, also warned that in a crisis that had taken place, their fundamental action should be directed towards moral and economic renewal. He said, among other things, So on this subject: the modern movement, directed towards the Gospel of Christ, is the cry for Christ's presence in the work of shipbuilders, miners, steel workers, workers of industrial institutions, as well as farmers. It is a manifestation of common sense, a voice of national conscience. This must be accepted as God's special favor. The unions who join the church show that they understand what is more necessary for the nation. First of all, we must come out of spiritual bondage, from a moral disaster, first of all drunkenness, the shoulder of conscientiousness at work, abuse, especially of a social and public nature. Knowing the necessity of such changes is proof that while there was much evil among us, conscience remains and it calls for the place of the Christian Gospel in our social, economic and national life. In short, according to Primate Wyszynski, the most urgent concerns of free relationships were first to take care of working conditions. Just as it takes care of good living conditions at home, the working conditions of workers and farmers had to be maintained. And that's the job of relationships. The cardinal spoke about this: let the self-government and independent trade unions in their business about every employee think so. It's a man, our brother, who works for the common good. Whatever we do, let's remember that the others are working for us. We're on them and they're on us. You're not as much an economist as you are a social worker. You have the brotherhood of working people in common. That is why you must ensure that they do not destroy their forces prematurely. This is also a great concern that I entrust to all of you, regardless of your ideological orientations. Although you would have different political temptations, remember that your first goal is to carry out professional social tasks, defend the working environment, health and safety conditions, comply with the labour code, social legislation. Defending a working man is your most important job. During these days of great change, the Primate tried to balance various socio-political trends. During long and difficult conversations with the unionists, he tried to shape the consciences of those who, by joining the Church, had not yet understood what was most needed to the nation. As it is believed, it was thanks to mediation that Primate Wyszynski registered the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). On 12 May 1981, in a conversation with the new Prime Minister, General Jaruzelski, the Cardinal placed this as a condition for the Church to continue to act as mediator between power and society. Two weeks later, the Primate of the Millennium passed away to the Lord. God's providence spared him the painful experience of martial law on 13 December 1981. Finally, when John Paul II arrived in 1983 with his second pilgrimage to his homeland, he addressed the first steps to the Warsaw Cathedral, the tomb of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. There, in the intention of the great Primate, he celebrated the first Holy Mass on Polish soil. He thanked God that in the difficult period of history, after World War II, at the turn of the first and second millennium, we had the primate, the husband of God, the fearless servant of the church and the country... [[The meeting is chaired by Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] ...Solidarity Advisor. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u13	Thank you very much. [[Am I out of time?]] Yes. [[How many minutes?]] Well, it's been 10 minutes now. [[Voice from the room: It's five more minutes.]] Five minutes is next time. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the initiators of this resolution and admit that they correctly recognise both the registration, whose anniversary we celebrate, and the way ahead of this registration and the activities that followed it. I have participated in many activities, alongside many other union activists. The mandate for these actions was the tenth request of the Gdańsk Agreements, which ordered the authorities to improve the supply of foodstuffs, especially meat preparations, and, as I recall, the introduction of a card system. That's one thing. And the other side of this mandate was the fact that... I was given to observe the causes of what was happening in the entire communist block, that is, a clear food deficit, a problem unsolved for decades, which, you can say, has turned into the longest food war in Europe. Because practically since the introduction of the first cards, since the events in Berlin, Budapest, triple in Poland... I thought you were. And that, I hope, is also the opinion of the Marshal present here. That the peasant's injury was greater than that of the workers. However, because they could not get together, that their basis of existence, even in Poland, where the peasant property existed, it was regulated on many levels: from, of course, the rotation of the land, through the disposal, the determination of prices, even to the supply of necessary coal for agricultural production. As I recall, that was 900 kilos from the chimney. Not from the production volume, from the chimney. The Union of Solidarity has always accompanied the fight of peasants. Already in Ustrzych the national committee took on the difficulty of participating. But there are problems with integration. I took part in the union work. The problem was the name. And that was an important thing. There have been less disputes about what direction this peasant revolution is going to go. It was much harder than a worker. The arrangement of August agreements, as well as the articulation of employees' expectations... This can, in a certain simplification, be brought to the expectation that socialism - Yeah, perversions. No, no, no, no, The need for change in the Polish countryside, among peasants, where socialism was not discussed, was discussed differently because for them socialism is pegeera and kolchoza. There was a maximum rule: Socialism No, no, no, no, But it was accompanied by reflection, especially in Poland. Socialism Not only because it is collectiveisation, but because it is non-productive, it is destruction, it is a threat to the food security of the country, which was a fact in 1980 and in the following years. Therefore, the peasants among whom I was in Bydgoszcz said: "We do not expect anything from you. Let us manage. And they added, which aroused reflection even with an extremist like me: "We will not only feed the nation, but we will feed the two nations, we are close to it. Everyone laughed when the minister said it was enough for breakfast to have one crispy bun. And it happened. It happened, though, as I say. And the resolution stresses that. It was not an easy road, nor was it an easy road for workers. So the hard fight for registration, to which the Kremlin responded with the mouth of the spokesperson It was a very important statement. That in this way the Rakowski government, with the help of extremists, creates a new party of Kułacka. Then the difficulties of negotiations, the difficulties of the union organization and finally everything where Poland met, in the centres of internment, on routes, underground, but always together. Always with farmers and peasants. The peasants regained their subjectivity, regained their right to their name, from where they were born. Today Poland provides, and peasants safeguard food security. More, a small piece of Europe benefits from this security, which is why we stress... But before I stress this, I confirm that this road, effective, non-investmental, except for wills and sacrifices, was possible thanks to the natural alliance of the Church, the union of the Soldiers and the peasants themselves. This made her, as it turns out, effective. Today I will say that I share the message from the last sentence of this resolution. I think it is important to thank all those peasants who, with fear, with fear, but also with courage and reason, left their peasant homesteads to fight for Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to three historical and perhaps not only aspects of those events which involved registration of the NSZZ Individual Farmers.Solidarity. Well, first thing, I'll repeat after Senator Ryszka, after Senator Rulewski. Undoubtedly the very beautiful and leading role of Primate Stefan Wyszyński, Primate of the Millennium, seriously ill, dying and yet very active to this need, which concerned two fundamental principles pursued by the Church in its teaching: the right to self-government, assembly, property rights, i.e. to function in the space of public natural law. And that's what trumps both of the pros. Memorial by Stefan Wyszyński, as well as documents known to me about direct talks between Primate Stefan Wyszyński and Stanisław Kania and General Jaruzelski. Primate's involvement was primarily aimed at proving to the public that the communist authorities were not from establishing natural rights. Communism can either function within these natural rights, but since 1917 it can be seen that it cannot, or because it cannot, be the overseer of the unjust, because unnatural laws, i.e. the power of the Esbec and other forces of terror, maintain the law that is contrary to the natural laws and capabilities of man. And all this philosophy, you can say, Primate Wyszynski was heading towards not so much educating the communists, because he probably lacked strength after so many decades of failure, but rather proving that the system that they maintain is deprived of the natural functioning and natural right to operate in an environment whose name is: man and his culture. And that was the basis for the reasoning of Primate Wyszynski. This, of course, also translated into this phenomenon, which was, of course, very strong in the period of the Polish People's Republic and visible especially in the history of the Church and the teaching of Primate Wyszyński, i.e. the creation of it in the formula, of course, positive rather than critical, as the authors of this formulation said about it. The Folk Church. Yes, the folk church, i.e. The Church of the Polish nation, and this Polish people are the most important part of the natural possibilities of the nation. Very often the Primate Wyszyński repeated this sentence in the records, in the Pro The memorial is also visible: there is no universal church without Catholic Poland and there is no Poland without Catholicism. And it is in these folk layers that this Polish Catholicism is the deepest. This is the first reflection. The second is a reminder not so much of the Factography, because I don't want to, God forbid, in these few minutes to perform my profession as a scientist... I would like to remind you that the phenomenon of this agreement and the creation of NSZZ Individual Farmers was that not only was there a power which, by its very nature, atomicized society, disintegrated and disinformed... And let me remind you that at that time the authorities were obviously trying to strengthen the machinery rings and give them more power, pretending that this is the answer to the needs of the peasants, and this was done within the framework of this disintegration and disinformation. However, what was important was that the peasant environment, which we today define so nicely in one word, was largely natural or because of the existence of the communist system authentically divided. It was SGGW intelligence, they were de facto workers working in pegeers, they were peasants. They were the most, of course. With an individual ownership of the peasant. These were environments, which can be said, also in Polish tradition very often existed as mutually exclusive and not complementary interests. It wasn't that easy a deal. And the phenomenon of this agreement is that there clearly existed in these layers and in these people some deeper need to build this agreement, which created NSZZ's Solidarity for Individual Farmers. Of course, this need is great patriotism, great love for the country. But I want to emphasize one more need in one word, namely the need resulting from the Polish beautiful tradition of self-government. Because as it turned out, it was the peasants who were able to move, despite the devastation of Poles through years of war, Stalinism, and then the Polish People's Republic, their own ability to live self-government. If you had left in the 1930s for the Polish countryside Of course today, Markova is such a beautiful example, because there lived the Ulm family, which we know very much about. You will see not only wonderful many Polish peasant families, but also people who are socially, economically and economically incredibly involved. They were not selfish people sitting in their homesteads, they were people who produced common good, precisely because of this ability to create self-government. This phenomenon, which then existed, is this ability to rid ourselves of real, authentic differences in views. To eliminate also differences in political thinking, because then they were still very active e.g. All those people who remembered Mikołajczykowski's PSL. They wanted to be a separate group, too, but they broke their private, individual ambitions so that this common self-government would win. From these, among others. The reasons for these times are worth reminding, this year 1981 and what happened at that time during these 16 months. Almost all of us are here from this generation, which was then active and already able to understand fairly much of the surrounding reality. Undoubtedly, we are beneficiaries of this period, the 1980s and 1981s, he has shaped us. I call this period two words, as a historian in my publications I refer them mainly to the working world, but in these two words there is a much broader context. These 16 months are: the radiation of solidarity. That's what I call it, and that's what I think in science it should sound like, but also in the Senate, let it sound like it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u17	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests invited, who are here on the right, with the Solidarity of Individual Farmers; they are invited today, will be at the exhibition, some are outside. Thank you very much for having arrived today and for listening to the High House, for witnessing the adoption of this resolution and expressing your thanks to you, for your hard work, for your struggle, for the struggle first about the unification of the rural movement, as I mentioned here and as Professor Żaryn mentioned just now... For this difficult fight, and today, holding on to this rudder that needs to be held, because trade unions are just as needed as before. Today, in the European Union, we as RI.Solidarity are associated with the European Union of Copa-Cogeca. There, today, when the most important decisions are taken in the European Union, in Brussels, Strasbourg, we are here and there we are watching over the legislation and legal solutions that are in force in the European Union and at the same time all the members of the European Union, because we know that the directives decide what our Polish legislation is. They apply directly, which means today the strength of agricultural organizations must be ♪ and it's like, "Oh, It is visible in the European Union. This is why there is a great challenge for agricultural unions today to continue to be active and watch over the common agricultural policy and agricultural policy, which is today a global policy, important international trade agreements that decide on identity, opportunities and food security for Poland, so that those who have been caring for many years about feeding the nation according to the motto that our farmers always repeat: feed and defend... It must be nurtured today. I am glad that the Senate wanted to debate this today and would like to adopt this resolution, because I will ask, since there are no amendments, that the Marshal would of course announce the third reading, so that today we can adopt this resolution so that we can finish this work today, because today is May 12th, full anniversary, the 30th anniversary. The President has already signed a decision to decorate farmers and tomorrow 35 farmers will be awarded in Belvedere. It's a very nice gesture. I must thank the President for wanting to accept farmers on his own initiative, and we are talking about high decorations for farmers, because that and the Officer's Crosses, and the Bachelor's Crosses, and the Golden Crosses of Merit for farmers. This is a great appreciation for the activists who fought at that time and who are fighting today. And I want to remind you that always the most important problem since the start of the farmers' fight... It was 1978, Lubelszczyzna, the famous actions of our great leader Janusz Rożek, he had the courage to protest in 1978, then Free Europe reported that farmers protested against taking their land for pensions. No one remembers that today. From this, a huge fund of land was created, about 2 million hectares of land was taken over by the State Fund of Earth, and to this day it is sold by the Agricultural Property Agency. That's when the farmers gave the land for their pensions. That's what hardly anyone remembers and talks about. Only in later years did struggle and stubbornness emerge. I would like to remind you that it was at that time that committees were formed, which were called peasant self-defense committees. They were in 4 regions, among others. in Podkarpacie, also in Lublin. Father Sadłowski, who has great merits, who was very persecuted, and who is still asleep. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński was highly decorated, he had the courage. Then we showed how close the Church was and how hard he fought for farmers, about these peasants, as we say in a common way, who always had patriotism in the first place. And this was seen, even in the last fight last year, when these farmers, and they are here, were able to claim equal rights for 129 days. I always say that we farmers do not want privileges, we just want equal rights and equal competition. We're always gonna be okay. We can feed, we can share, we can take care of our country. All we need is a level playing field. We are not afraid of external competition if it is fair, if it is true and not the one that leads to the fact that Polish farmers, like today, have a very difficult economic situation and face problems. I hope that our union activities will help, I hope that this government will also help, also in the European Union, so that Polish farmers really can feel safe, calmly looking to the future, have a perspective, because the farmer always sees further. Yes, the farmer always sees further, never tries to look back at the furrow. It goes forward and plans for many years ahead. Agriculture is a special area, and the land is a special good, the farmer always takes care of the land and wants to be a host on this land. Therefore, I must thank you, the High House, for the many actions that are being taken here in defence of Polish land, in defence of property, for which Polish peasants have been seeking for many years. I must also mention the landowners, especially since yesterday we opened an exhibition about landowners. They also remembered... This patriotism of our great husbands, landowners, who also cared about Polishness, culture, traditions, was discussed yesterday. And together, together in that Second Republic... So is today when this identity is reborn. And today some farmers are already, you can say, landowners. Even they are already landowners, you can say so boldly, because they already have larger areas and have opportunities. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, and thank you to your fellow senators. I hope you will support this resolution. Once again, truly with all my heart, I thank farmers who spare their time by sacrificing themselves in union work, social work, and no one pays them for it. Well, thank you very much, then. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u19	Thank you, Senator. Now I would like to speak as a speaker. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll just take care of history, not sometimes contemporary. And as far as history is concerned, my speech won't be polemic. And if I were to talk about modern times, I would have to enter into polemics with Senator Chróścikowski and I think that with a large part of the state present here. The peasant movement, destroyed in Stalinist times, began to reborn in the 1970s after the establishment of the Workers' Defence Committee. In a large part, he even took over the name of the Committee on Self-Defense of Boys, because the NRA later renamed itself the Committee on Self-Defense. Although he also had his own wing associated with the human rights movement. There was some competition, but this competition didn't make this movement actually cease to exist in 1980. Although there were people working, individuals. But earlier, in the 1970s, he recreated in various places on the basis that there were people, including Father Sadłowski, who tried to break through and through the system of the authority there, and through the different ratio of the hierarchy of the church, even to the activities of priests in this movement. So: Jan Rożek, Broszta Duża, priest Sadłowski and This emerging movement has been completely shattered by security operations. And that was the difference between this opposition movement, related to workers, intelligence, and this peasant movement. Therefore, at the time of the strikes, at the time of the creation of Solidarity, he had to re-create himself. And that's why his start was later. But he was actually reborn on the basis of different business groups. Because actually the problem in 1981, after March 1981, after the Bydgoszcz crisis was not the opposition of power, but, as I remember, the unity of this movement. And it was a problem that different businesses, even pegeer workers... Their interests were different from those of the individual owners. It was a real difference of interest, and therefore it was very difficult for everyone else to accept this sign of "RI" and "Individual Farmers." Previously there were protests and strikes, farmers protested differently than workers. Lower mouths... They protested, gathering in one place, protesting, occupying public buildings. Then the Reichs... It must have gone some time before this movement consolidated and before everyone came to the conclusion that individual ambitions should be hidden and tried to build one entity. It was up to the authorities to start playing these players. I mean, she was playing... Since there were 3 players at the beginning, it was easy to play them. On the NSZZ side, solidarity has been aimed at consolidating this movement from the beginning. I would like to say that in my view the main support was from the NSZZ It is important to appreciate the role of the Church, but it was not the Church that was on the front line of the fight. The solidarity was on the front line. I believe that the Bydgoszcz crisis, which, as it were, caused That's the truth. Senator Jan Rulewski present... [[Voice from the room: It was...]] [[But not the last.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...brought him into solstice, and that solstice was one of the reasons that power had retreated. This registration was the result of the power having to go back. [[She just stopped.]] She had to go back, and before that she said absolutely no, we disagree. And she pointed to the legal side, claiming that farmers are not workers, and therefore they are not covered by the Trade Union Act. It was the main argument of power, the legal argument. At the moment of political pressure, this argument was dropped. The emergence of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers was as if the closure of the part of the field, which was not fully developed. The Solidarity movement took over the cities, and since the establishment of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers solidarity as an idea has also embraced the village. At the time, the authorities were trapped and had all of them against each other. I also want to remind you, because every now and then there are questions about pegeers, voices that they could be functioning... The elimination of pegeers was one of the main demands of the agricultural movement. And these postulates were very harsh, farmers were right to say and show how much money goes to state farms, they showed that it was money transposed from agriculture, from individual farms. Besides, the entire period of the beginning of the Polish People's Republic is the construction of industry, the great industry at the expense of farmers. This is a reduction in farmers' income, taking over this income and shifting it to the construction of the industry, to a large extent heavy industry. Well, something doesn't come out of anything. I support the draft resolution. This is the time to remind about this second part of the Polish society, which took part in the transformations, supported these changes, i.e. the Polish village. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] (Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski: May I, Mr. Marshal, say one word?) Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u20	Mr. Marshal, thank you for the historical reminders. In fact, I may not have added this, so I feel obliged to add even more forcefully. Thank you very much for the solidarity of employees, which actually supported in Rzeszow, supported in Bydgoszcz... Senator Rulewski was the chairman of the Workers' Solidarity Group. [[Applause]] Thank you very much to many activists, but I would like to say that this is a historic moment that still applies to us today. The association of "Solidarity" has in its statutes that you may belong to another association of "Solidarity" individual farmers. We pervade each other, especially in those years, because it was... At the time, there was the concept of a boy worker, many of our people, who had small farms, also worked in the workplace and were also in this solidarity, and in this solidarity. I have to say one thing: "Solidarity gave us staff. We didn't have the money. She gave employees to serve our offices and this cooperation was daily. I can tell you that today my office is next to the office of "Solidarity" and "Agricultural Solidarity." We're still close and working together. There are differences in some things that... We discuss various possibilities together, about some not, and this discussion is creative to find that Poland is always the most important for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u21	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I hereby announce a recess until 1 p.m. At 1:00 a.m. vote. I invite you to open the exhibition on the occasion of 35 years of activity of the NSZZ Individual Farmers of.Solidarity, at 12.00 a.m. in front of the Senate Plenary Room. Time-out till 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 59 to 13 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u22	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 144 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The amendment harmonises and clarifies the provisions. It assumes that in the event that the entry of a foreigner into the territory of Poland may constitute a threat to the security of the state, the foreigner is not subject to either resettlement or relocation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 74 senators voted in favour, no one opposed, one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on granting protection to foreigners in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on Business Freedom. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place during the session, on which these committees responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 150 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today's meeting took place between the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. As a result of the vote, the joint committees have adopted a position in which they recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u24	Thank you very much. Are the senators of the applicant Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Władysław Komarnicki Do they still want to speak? [[Yeah, I would.]] Senator Dowhan, please. [[I quit, thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will urge you to reject this law, because it really brings nothing but additional bureaucracy, proving something that is proven through a tangible document, which is a VAT invoice, and therefore does not have to follow the transfer. We are getting the negative feedback of many business associations from small and medium-sized companies. Taking all this into account, I ask once again that we reject this law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u26	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law, followed by a vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on this amendment will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Dowhan's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. For 87 voters, 29 voted in favour, 56 against, and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] The motion to reject the law was not accepted. In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 56 votes in favour, 29 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act on Business Freedom. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Public Blood Service and some other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 149 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Raphael Silencer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Health Committee at today's meeting considered the proposals put forward during the debate. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u28	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as an applicant? [[No, thank you.]] We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 aims to limit the transfer of donor data by a public blood service unit to the PCC for the purpose of issuing badges only with the consent of the donor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 votes, all in favor. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 allows blood packaging to be marked so that donor and recipient can be identified in case of autologous donation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 86 voters, all in favor. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 permits... [[Voice from the room: Fourth, because the third was ruled out.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. Amendment 4 aims to align the provision with other provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 voters, all in favor. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 clarifies the provision of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 voters, all in favor. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 introduces the correct definition for the type of research set out in the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 voters, all in favor. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 clarifies the provision to indicate that it concerns donors and not blood recipients. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 voters, all in favor. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 8 removes the erroneous reference from the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 voters, all in favor. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 9 aims to specify the deadlines for reporting, which will clarify the obligation imposed on the public blood service units. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 10 and 13 should be voted together. They specify the provisions for the identification of the public blood service organisations to which the tasks referred to therein are to be carried out and for the indication that the distribution of desmopressin for public blood service organisations will take place for the purpose of carrying out an individual order. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 clarifies the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 12 clarifies the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 has already been voted on, including Amendment 10. Amendment 14 aims to change the deadline from which public blood units are to transmit data on infections and diseases to the e-blood system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 aims to clarify the provision and speed up the deadlines within which data to the e-blood system should be transmitted to the full extent. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] The bill's been passed. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Blood Service and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement on social security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 145 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Quebec, signed in Quebec on 3 June 2015. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act, the State Labour Inspection Act and the Act implementing certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of a law without amendments, and a minority of committees requested amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 164 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the draft resolution submitted by the committee, in which it requested the adoption of the law without amendments, and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the proposals submitted by a minority of committees. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, in which the committee requests the adoption of the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 89 senators voted, 59 against, 30 against. [[Voting No 21]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions, the Act on State Labour Inspection and the Act on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment. Just for the record, I'm waiting for everyone to vote. Mr. Senator, if I may. We return to the examination of the sixth item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 161 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Michael Sewerynski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u30	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? [[Yeah, I do.]] Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Here you have a report on the work of the committee that has been leaning on 55 amendments and 2 proposals, minorities and the majority. As you can easily see, the amendments concern both the idea of the bill itself and the errors and the holes in the bill. These amendments have been submitted, sometimes jointly, by Members of the Civic Platform as well as by the Law and Justice. [[Senators.]] Senators. Surely the Senators of Law and Justice. Some amendments were supported by the government, following the principle of rationality and correctness of legislation. The most important of the amendments, Nos 7 and 10, restored, maintained in Poland the system of shaping the IPN authorities in a civil way, by choosing to the board, and as a result: the announcement of competitions, elections in the most important Polish universities, which deal with history or law, in the National Judicial Council, the National Public Prosecutor's Council and the Polish Academy of Sciences. The next amendment concerns the fact that, following the current solution, the President of the Institute should be an apolitical person and should not belong to any political party. Other amendments, perhaps of minor importance, but relevant to the functioning of the Act, assume that, in view of the not too obvious liquidation of the Council for the Protection of the Martyrs of the Fighting Memory and Martyrdom, the functions proposed by the legislators should take over the field branches or delegations of the IPN. This is about empty seats resulting from the liquidation. Of course, Amendment 44 is also important, which makes it possible and does not exist in the Act. Special Forces Officers' Mirror. Most of the members of the PiS rejected the possibility of improving the bill and building a compromise. The majority considered that the election of the President and the Council should take place in the privacy of political offices. The majority confirmed that there would be no election of the president, there would be one only president in Poland. This means that in case of rejection of another amendment, which allowed us to read documentation about our behaviour in branches or delegations, one person will be buried in our CVs. [[Voice from the room: Chairman.]] Well, perhaps reinforced by Minister Macierewicz and Minister Ziobra. [[Don't insult me...]] That's the wording of the bill. That's the wording of the bill. [[Voice from the room: Pure provocation.]] This may mean that some streets will turn into promenades and will dominate people so far not known in opposition activity... [[Voice from the hall: Lech Wałęsa.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...including one who, at the time of the declaration of martial law, did not go where the former demonstrators were, protect the centres of democracy that were the headquarters of the "Solidarity" or did not remain at home, but obediently submitted to the hearing with the SB officer. [[Why are you doing this, Janek? Why are you doing this?]] This may also mean that instead of the Curon, we will worship the highly deserved opposition of prosecutor Peterovich. [[Voice from the room: I'm in.]] As an opponent, I can't agree to that... [[applause]] I can't agree to that, which is why I'm asking you to accept these amendments. I also inform on behalf of the Platform that the Platform will not support this law, which has a clear face, it is not the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, but it is the Act on the Institute of PiS Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: As always, provocations.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u32	Thank you. Speaking... [[In corrigendum mode, I'd like to...]] There's no such thing. Your wish to speak has been submitted by Professor Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, as one of the authors or co-authors of many amendments, I want to correct what Senator Rulewski just said. It is possible to discuss for a long time, I would certainly be on the side of those who claim that these amendments made sense, but surely the adoption or rejection of these amendments will not change the main nature of the changes that will take place in connection with the adoption of the entire amendment of the National Remembrance Institute Act, and this amendment will certainly not cause us to suddenly find ourselves, Senator, in some country of gangsters. I'm... I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I have just recently listened to the ministers who were asked by the Sejm to audit, and I am terribly sorry, but if any very strong words are to come from any chamber today, whether from the Sejm or the Senate, then really, although today, not from the Law and Justice, but from the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u34	Senator Wind, how did he report? [[I wanted to be corrected...]] [[Voices from the hall: There is no such mode!]] I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u35	Senator Rulewski said all sorts of weird things... And I'm sure that's one sentence. And it's easy to see that he was misleading the senators with it. There is a sentence that also said yesterday that this amendment to the Act would abolish the provision that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance could not belong to a political party. Well, it's an art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No The third one who talks about it is not changing, Senator. Please read the documents carefully, not mislead the senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u36	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people reporting. We therefore proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the two previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 votes 30 voted in favour, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. For 87 votes 54 were in favor, 32 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 35th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I remind you that today has been... Quiet, please! I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 138 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 35th anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 17th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I also inform your senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 18 and 19 May this year. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Wait a minute. Declarations ahead of us.]] Declarations may not last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Wczyła has spoken. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Mark G grubarczyk. Dear Minister, The current government announced the construction of the channel by measure, an investment which was prepared in the vast majority during the reign of the previous coalition. I welcome the Minister's declaration that the timetable approved by the Civic Platform Ministers in 2014 will be maintained in the further process of carrying out this task. This means that this important investment will be implemented in real time and in compliance with procedures related inter alia. with the obligation of public consultation as well as environmental requirements. I also hoped that this decision would close the senseless, often political attacks on similar sensitivity to the procedures shown by the previous government, through which the government, in which you are a minister, received complete documentation, with all foreseeable effects on the vulnerable environment analysed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] Unfortunately, I was wrong. One of the Members of the Law and Justice has reported to the prosecutor's office precisely in connection with the procedure for drawing up this documentation in previous years, questioning inter alia. selection of channel location by measuring. I would like to remind you that at no stage in the production of documentation no one used such arguments, considering that environmental reasons presented by specialists should be taken into account. Also, the Member who submitted the report had not previously raised any objections and had not even taken part in any consultations, even though I personally invited him to participate in them. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. The first question: does the Ministry share the doubts that the location of the channel by measure was chosen inexactly and in breach of the law? Two. If so, since when do these doubts exist, and why did the Minister ensure that the procedure for agreeing with the European Commission is going well? Third question. If so, does the Ministry take into account the need to withdraw the documentation from the European Commission as containing an unjustified location? Question four: does the Ministry plan to repeat environmental studies, which will take about 4 years with the competition procedure and consultations to re-establish the correct location, which I believe is to return to the location in Skowronki? Question five: Is there any evidence to suggest that there could actually be a breach of the law? The sixth question is: what time-limit does the Minister provide for the implementation of the investment if these measures are to be taken? Will this be possible before 2026? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u38	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u39	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is a statement addressed to the President of the District Court in Pruszkow, Ada Sędrowska, on the provision of information on the procedural letter of 25 February 2015 submitted by Mrs G.W. Madam President! With reference to the letter from the President of 28 January 2016, No Prez. Adm. 4010-9/16, which responds to Janusz Wojciechowski's letter to the European Parliament of 25 January 2016, which states that there is no legal basis for providing information to the European Parliament on the progress of the case in the District Court in Pruszkow, I would like to reiterate the content of this question and ask for information on how it was dealt with by the District Court in Pruszkow on the signature of Act 1C1710/13 concerning Mrs G. In particular, it concerns the treatment of the procedural letter of 25 February 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u40	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Dear Minister, The Regulation of 14 May 2014 of the Minister for Labour and Social Policy on the allocation of funds from the National Training Fund laid down in detail the manner and modalities for the allocation of funds for the lifelong learning of workers and employers. In §6 (a), paragraph (b) is replaced by the following: 1 of that implementing act it shall be concluded that: "Starosta shall examine the employer's applications in accordance with the order in which they are affected and shall inform the employer within 30 days of the date on which the application is submitted of the manner in which it is dealt with. In the event of a negative examination of the application, the Starost justifies refusal. The legislation required by the county labour offices to deal with applications in accordance with the order of their impact has caused many difficulties for both applicants and authorities. In practice, it appears that before the next selection of employer's proposals, interested in granting funds from the National Training Fund, they form a queue committee waiting for employers whose participants stay at the office all day before the deadline for submitting applications and sometimes even longer. An example here is the situation in Opole and Krakow at the beginning of April this year. This is not the case where the Authority announces receipt of applications for any other subsidised aid to employers. For this reason, I ask the Minister to amend the regulation cited in the preamble to the waiver of the obligation of the labour office to deal with employers' applications in the order of applications for the purpose of the application. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u42	Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement deals with issues which, in my opinion, should be addressed by the Minister of Finance and the Commission for Financial Supervision, namely the drastic increases in operating fees in banks in recent times, which are trying to justify the introduction of a bank tax. As an example, I give the situation in which there was an increase from PLN 6 to PLN 50 per bank operation. I don't want to mention the name of the bank here so he doesn't feel branded, even though he deserves it, this bank knows it's about him. This is a situation which, in my view, justifies the action taken by the addressees I have identified in the supervision procedure and in order to establish in a holistic manner what the banks have applied to the increase in operating activities and possibly to assess whether this constitutes monopolistic practices and the abuse of powers vis-à-vis consumers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-senat-17-2.u44	Would any of your senators like to speak again? I don't see any volunteers. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 17th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 17th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you very much. [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 39]]
