ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We proceed to the second item of the agenda... Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u2	Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure request that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Law amending the Law and consider it as a third point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u3	Is there an objection? There it is. Senator Bear. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u4	Yes, Mr. Marshal. I object to this extension of the agenda. According to Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure are required to read the materials at least 3 days before the sitting. In this term, it happens very often that we get a bill on the day on which we are supposed to process it. I will remind you: the Police Act, the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, the Constitutional Court Act, the Anti-Terrorism Act, the Bank Tax Act, all these laws entered into this way. I don't think it should be that way, because we don't have time to get to know the materials... I'm not talking about consulting the environment anymore, but we don't even have time to read the materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, there's a formal motion from the senator against it. We vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? But there aren't two opposites. Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. There's one motion in favour, one motion against. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of the motion made by Senator Sewerinski? Please press the "Za" button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 71 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 20 against, 1 the senator abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The proposal was adopted by the High House. We're writing this point down as point three. We proceed to the second agenda: the appointment of the members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Senator Borusewicz requests the floor.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u6	Mr. Marshal, at the Seniors' Convention, you signalled your intention to introduce a law to amend the Education System Act...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u7	There hasn't been a committee meeting yet, Senator. Mr. Marshal, there hasn't been a committee meeting yet. [[Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka: But it will be, at 11.00 is announced, Mr. Marshal. May I?]] But it's all been explained, discussed, and you know it. I would now suggest not to start the discussion. [[Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka: It is highly likely that there will be another bill...]] Not likely, just certain, because that's what we talked about at the convention, and we all know it. [[Mr. Marshal, will we sit until Saturday?]] I don't know. It's all up to the ladies and senators. [[It's against all regulations.]] [[Voice from the room: You need to get acquainted...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you don't start any unnecessary... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you not start the discussion. If we're... [[Senator Czarnobaj...]] Let us not start unnecessary discussions because we discussed this at the Senior Convention. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] And in what mode? [[Formal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u8	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Platform Club, I'd like to request a two-hour recess to get acquainted with the drafts of those laws that are supposed to come into order.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u9	Is this the club's request? [[Yes.]] There you go. I'm calling a two-hour break. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 06 to 11 minutes 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 11.30 a.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 06 to 11 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u11	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed to the second agenda: the appointment of the members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. According to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Senate appoints 2 members of the College for a period of 7 years. I inform you that the following candidates have been submitted: Mr Antoni Kazimierz Dudek, Mr Andrzej Roman Kołodziej, Mr Wojciech Polak, Mr Tadeusz Wojciech Wolsz. The candidates' CVs are included in print No 210. He addressed proposals concerning the applications submitted by the Senate Marshals to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committee's report is contained in print No 210 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to speak and to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its meeting on 22 June this year. commented on the proposals made by the Senate Marshal to appoint members to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The Commission notes that all candidates, Mr Antoni Kazimierz Dudek, Mr Andrzej Roman Kołodziej, Mr Wojciech Polak, Mr Tadeusz Wojciech Wolsz, have been properly reported. The Commission conducted a hearing of candidates for members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Polish National Crimes Commission and gave a positive opinion on the candidacy of Mr Antoni Kazimierz Dudk, Mr Wojciech Polak, Mr Tadeusz Wojciech Wolsz. The Commission has taken a negative view of Mr Andrzej Roman Kołodziej's candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u13	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u14	Mr. Marshal, I have this question: what was the cause of the negative opinion about Mr. Wheeler? Because the committee, as I understand it, has taken this decision for substantive reasons, so I would like to know the reason for the negative opinion of one of the candidates. [[All the more so because he's a well-deserved man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u15	You're welcome, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u16	Mr. Senator, the reasons you know are the senators of the committee who have decided on their vote. Public reasons were not discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u17	Senator Shark. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I wasn't at the meeting, I was on a delegation, but still... Because Mr. Kołodziej's name is the name that was and is known to us. This is a man of merit. When we learn today in a simple message that Mr Kołodziej has not received a positive opinion, it must raise our serious reservations and hence these questions. It can't be a secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u19	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u20	I would like to ask if, in the opinion of the committee, Mr Kołodziej fulfilled the conditions to enter the Council of the Institute of National Remembrance, or were there any obstacles. [[College, not council.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u21	If you don't mind my asking for an answer... [[Yeah, college.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u22	The conditions that must be met in order to run have been met by all candidates. This case has not been questioned or discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u23	Senator Rybicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u24	Thank you. I would like to ask the President about the ratio of votes, about the outcome of the vote on the opinion on the candidate Mr Andrzej Kołodziej. [[Maybe I'll answer from the spot, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u25	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u26	In the report, the ratio of votes is not presented, it is in the minutes of the committee's meeting. I don't remember right now, so I won't guess.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u27	Senator Wach. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u28	I'm actually on the same case. I would like to ask what elements of the discussion or what voices in the discussion indicated the possibility of a negative opinion on Mr Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u29	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u30	There is no answer to this question, because the discussion was modest and no one raised any objections to the candidates.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u31	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u32	Mr Andrzej Kołodziej is a man of great historical merit. Free Trade Unions, August strike in Gdynia Shipyard, he single-personed the workers of Gdynia Shipyard... Then martial law. And I think his resume is going to be discussed here. And then the Solidarity Fighting... In addition, Mr Andrzej Kołodziej is the author of a series of publications, including the best monograph on Free Trade Unions. And I am addressing the rapporteur with a question. Did Andrzej Kołodziej vote only for the Senator of the Civic Platform, and all the Senators of PiS voted against Andrzej Kołodzie?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u33	Mr. Marshal, I don't remember who voted. This can be established within minutes on the basis of the protocol. This is not a roll call vote, although it is public. I can't give you names, I can't remember. [[It's public.]] [[It's public.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u34	Marshal Shark. Ask me a question. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Me again with the same question: why? And it might sound weird, but I'm a person associated with the August opposition. That's why it hurts me, and I think I'm entitled to this question. Let me ask you straight: if Mr. Andrzej Kołodziej hadn't selected the Civic Platform, would it have increased the chance to choose Mr. Kołodziej?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u36	Mr. Marshal, please release me from this answer, because it does not concern the proceedings of the sitting, but it is the hypothesis of a senator that I cannot answer. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u37	I agree with the Professor. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Before adopting a resolution on the appointment of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish Senate may invite candidates to submit explanations and answer questions of the senators. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Antoni Kazimierz Dudko such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll have the same question for all candidates. Namely, do you consider that the current catalogue of persons covered by the illustration should be extended to representatives of scientific communities, employees of state universities, media representatives and cultural people who take a leading position in public institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u39	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer. [[Candidate for a Member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals Antoni Dudek: Are we responding from the place or from the speaker?]] Of course, I'd like to invite you to the podium, but if you'd like to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! To answer Senator Jackowski's question, I would like to say that on the one hand We really need to consider extending the vetting to those categories of people that the senator told us about. Although it is important to realise that in the case of the media we have a problem defining the profession of journalist On the other hand, for the sake of the process of judging, it is also necessary to consider limiting it. It is about this category, which in fact clogs the entire process of illustrative in Poland, and I am referring here to candidates for councillors. Well, today, in the IPN, we have about 300,000 unverified illustrative statements, about 60 and 70 percent. These are the statements of those who ran to the councils of all levels and did not become councillors. These are thousands of people. In my opinion, this category should be excluded from the vetting, only those who have been elected as councillors should be subjected to the vetting, and in this place a much smaller group, as the senator said, should enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u41	Thank you. Stay here for a while, or there might be some questions. Do any of you have another question? Senator Żaryn. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u42	I, too, would like to ask a question to all the candidates in the college. It sounds the same. Could each of you describe such three areas, topics, limiting to 3 for time reasons which seem most important to you in connection with the competences of the institution, the Institute of National Remembrance, in the context of the amended act and in the context of a reality that may be located elsewhere than the amendments of this law? Should the Institute of National Remembrance therefore take on yet other challenges that are already visible today and have not yet been covered by law? I am talking about this because this is an institution that is constantly developing and its competences will undoubtedly grow. Therefore, as members of the College, gentlemen are predisposed to look visually at the law in force on the one hand, but also to see the future you will formulate, also asking for possible systemic and statutory changes. So please indicate in both areas, in the vision further and in the current vision, embedded in the current law, 3 priorities for the Institute of National Remembrance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u44	As far as priority one is concerned, because this is, in my opinion, the most fundamental task, the most important of all, it is the historical education of the Polish society and it is not only young people, but especially young people. The state of historical knowledge of Poles, and the youngest ones, and unfortunately also of older ones, I find very weak. We have to keep doing this, because I think the institute has done a lot in this field, and we really have to do a lot more, and that's what we have to do. in different fields. Let me give you one example. We now have a chance, if this project continues with the new authorities of the institute, to create something absolutely innovative on a European scale when it comes to historical education. I'm talking about a built educational center for IPN in Łódź. At the moment there is already a contract signed with the center of Natolin, there is a building. There you will try to use such a quite fashionable game today among young people, called escape rooms, escape rooms, and combine it with historical education. This is kind of an interactive game, I'm not going to go into details. In any case, it is an insanely important, innovative undertaking, but it does not, of course, replace many other activities in the educational field. Education, then. Second area. Let me put it simply that the institute has to deal with itself, because you have to realize that the amendment that has entered into force means that the institute is expanding, with 4 verticals that have been so far, to be made 7 verticals. This is in fact almost doubling in the sense of the internal organizational structure of the institute and institute must simply rip these pieces together. Synergies must be achieved here, and this will be very difficult. And a third task. In my opinion, however, the institute was built on the foundation of the archives. Today, half of the Institute's staff are archivists. In fact, the third major task is to further improve the archive and develop it. Of course, it doesn't exhaust important things. There is, for example. the issue of developing a search vertical, which will be a new pioneer, as it were, the development of those activities that the Institute has already carried out, albeit without formal statutory authorisation. These tasks are much more important, but the 3 most important ones are education, achieving synergies with new verticals and improving archives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u45	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question from Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u46	I have a question for Professor Dudek and Professor Wolsz, because they both know the functioning of the Institute, also its functioning in accordance with the old law. I would like to ask you how you assess the changes made by the new law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u47	I have an ambivalent attitude to this amendment, I didn't hide it. I'm sure she's got good, bright points. First of all, I consider the elimination of the reserved collection to be the brightest. I, as a member of the board, and the entire council have sought this, but unfortunately the previous management of the Internal Security Agency has been quite assertive in terms of our demands in this area. You may not know that, senators. In general, the collection is reserved for a special services deposit in the IPN. Individual services have their parts of this collection, of different sizes. The largest part, more than 60% the reserved set, belongs to the Internal Security Agency, so in this case the head of the ABW is the most important partner. The elimination of the reserved set is undoubtedly a clear point. Undoubtedly a very good solution is to sanction in the end the activities which the institute carried out in the field of search, exhumation, identification of victims of communist crimes. He didn't actually do it under the bill, he did it through prosecutorial investigations. Now it will be sanctioned and this is a very good solution. But I don't hide my doubts. But it's time to show, maybe it's a good solution, so I don't want to get ahead of it right now; it's a big challenge. The effect of the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. At the moment, the powers of this institution have been divided between the Institute of National Remembrance and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Let's see how this works in practice. I hope this will not be used by our opponents abroad I am talking about the Russian Federation for certain actions related to the fact that the agreements concerning Polish cemeteries in Russia were signed by the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom. Now the Russian side can say that there is no such entity. I'm afraid that's not entirely taken into account. And I do not hide that I believe that some solutions have been lacking in this amendment, but they have not been taken into account. For me, a symbol of what was lacking in this amendment is the question of the institute's territorial structure. As you may know, the Institute of National Remembrance has its branches and delegations, but they are organized not according to the criteria of administrative division of the country into 16 voivodships, but according to judicial appeals. This causes, for example, Minsk Mazowiecki is in the Lublin branch of IPN. It's pointless. It would be much wiser if the territorial organisation of the Polish State corresponds to the territorial organisation of the Polish State. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. I hope that this will be introduced in any subsequent amendment. That's all in short. Of course, I could go on longer, but I don't want to go into details because it's a very complicated amendment, including a huge number of points. Those were my most important grades. So that I see the advantages and disadvantages of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u48	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Rulewski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Candidates, my question may be simple. What do you think is better for you, the state as candidates, but also for a broad society: typing you as candidates by politicians or, as has been the case so far, by scientific institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u50	Mr. Senator, the previous system assumed, you might say, a double selection. First the candidates applied for the so-called. electoral gatherings, which were appointed by the councils of departments with the right to habilitate from history. There were twenty-several such electors, and these electors, as you know, carried out selections and presented to Parliament a double number of candidates. Then the Senate had the right to decide, too, except... you can say there's an analogy. Today you will choose 2 out of 4 and the same would be true in the old system. The difference is that today we were reported not by the historical environment, but by clubs respectively Platforms and Rights and Justice. Let me put it this way: I was in favour of leaving a certain influence of the academic community, historical influence on the election of the authorities of the institute, but the Sejm decided differently and I accept it. All the more so as this solution has been in place since 2010. Previously, there was a system where Parliament and the President were the only ones to decide. So I say, there's been a change, and I respect it. I am in favour of a certain, one can say, continuity of the operation of the Polish state and therefore I am so interested in the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, not only in the scope of one parliamentary term, but also in the longer term. And I hope that, despite his turbulent history, the institute will be able to survive any further turmoil that will undoubtedly occur. As I say, however, I was in favour of the right of a certain academic community to select candidates. Well, since it's not there, by agreeing to run here, I automatically accepted the new system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u51	Thank you very much. Professor Stanisławek, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you, Professor. How would the professor comment on the letter from PiS politicians to the Ukrainians on the seventy-third anniversary of the Volynian crime and the acute reaction of the head of Ukrainian IPN, Mr Windrowicz? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u53	Indeed, there is, as we know, a powerful historical problem in Polish-Ukrainian relations. Part of this problem is indeed the head of the Ukrainian IPN, Mr Windrowych, who represents the circles, I would say, such radical Ukrainian nationalism. Nevertheless, I believe that it is necessary to speak with the Ukrainians. I think that letter was a good move. However, it must also be borne in mind that in cases such as historical dialogue with Ukrainians or between nations at all, results cannot be expected in months or years, but rather decades. And in my opinion, attempts to speed up the reconciliation process may fail because I believe that action at this level is more important, I would say, lower than political. Here is the need to exchange students, scientific contacts, cultural contacts. And this must be pursued gradually, trying to make the Ukrainian side aware that this problem is. Nevertheless, I do not hide that I am an opponent... Some people think it's the wrong way. I do not hide that I am in dispute with those who believe that Poland should simply take advantage of a certain geopolitical advantage which it has over Ukraine today, in order to put the Ukrainians against the wall and say: if you do not accept certain issues immediately, then we will stop supporting you in current matters. I don't think that's the way. I believe that it is necessary to speak with the Ukrainians firmly, to defend your rights decisively, but you cannot put the Ukrainians against the wall, because in my opinion it will only be a gift for the Russian Federation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u54	Thank you very much. Senator Major, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u55	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Professor, ladies and gentlemen, this question is also addressed to all other candidates for the college. Professor, in view of the development of historical education, historical policy, using the fact that you have worked in the IPN for many years and also functioned in the college, I will ask you about your point of view on the organizational structure of the IPN. [[Candidate for a Member of the College of National Remembrance Institute of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Antoni Dudek: Yes?]] Is this organizational structure optimal at the moment, or could it be extended? I'll be specific about Czestochowa's case. Częstochowa, as the 12th city in Poland in terms of the number of inhabitants, lost her IPN branch, which is a loss to the communities that want, so to speak, to maintain the value of historical education. Can we talk... Will the IPN analyse or in the future analyse the development of the organisational structure, taking into account local circumstances? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u56	Mr. Senator, for the time being, the institute, I'd say, is expanding in terms of the scope of competence it's about to undertake. Two new ones arrived: the search for and identification of victims of communist crimes and commemoration of memorial sites, part of the competences of the former Council of Protection, were sanctioned. As far as territorial expansion is concerned, I believe that this is, of course, a matter of budget. But it's obvious to me. I was just talking about it. The Institute should have branches in all voivodship cities and then create delegations, as far as its financial capabilities are concerned, in cities the size of Częstochowa. Yeah, if it's up to me, then... It would be my dream that cities of this size would also have delegations of the institute. But, of course, it's a question of financial resources. As far as the internal structure is concerned, there is a problem. And I'm gonna go back to the question. I didn't develop this thread anymore. What was not resolved in the Act in the last amendment. That's the problem with the investigative vertical. Well, today we are dealing with a situation in which formally one of the verticals of the Institute of National Remembrance is the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National, but in fact it is completely separated from the Institute. Because the head of the institute... In fact, his sole competence, according to the bill, is to pay the prosecutors' wages and provide them with jobs. However, it does not have any impact on the activities of the investigative unit, nor does the college, which is to be set up. The former Council still had the right to give an opinion on law enforcement policy, but the current College does not have any competence at all with regard to the investigative level. And this raises doubts about the meaning of such a solution in a situation where the investigative post is wholly subject to the prosecutor general, which I do not question, because I think it is a good solution, but that in that case perhaps the investigative post of the IPN should become, like the military prosecutor's office, part of the Ministry of Justice. Because he's part of the IPN today, but only by name, and it's really true that I don't see any connection here and any possibility of influence. And this is also an example of changes that I think should be considered if there is another amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Golba. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u58	Professor, I have a question as if it were complementary to Professor Stanisławek's question, who just asked about the letter that we answered to Ukrainian politicians. I have this question for you because soon we will make a decision as a parliament on this matter. Do you think we should make this decision by resolution, or can we do this by law? Because from what you've said, we should speak decisively, unambiguously, decisively. I'm saying it here because if we don't cut it today, then And we know that. These monuments will become more and more and this ideology will expand in Ukraine. We can see that these monuments are already being created a lot, especially Stepan Bandera, so called streets, etc. And we know how the Ukrainian Parliament behaved, and we know that leading politicians, led by the President of Ukraine, are somehow inculcating this lie to young generations. In particular, I mean, when we do Well, okay, exchange students, then will we convince them that since they have in their country as national heroes of these criminals, I would say: terrorists... Will we be able to draw them away like this later as if they were from the truth? And did we? in this connection we have, we should have a clear position as a state, and should we do so by resolution or by law? That's the main question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u59	I would not like to advise Parliament whether it is to decide something by resolution or by law. But I don't think the bill is the right direction, the right way to solve this issue. If anything, it is a resolution, because this resolution is a form of Parliament's position. But, like I said, I don't expect any breakthrough in this case over the next few years. I mean, in my opinion, all those who believe that this process will succeed, actually taking place in Ukraine by resolution or law, are unrealistic. In my opinion, a long-term programme of influence on the Ukrainian side is needed here, and it will be the result of a political agreement within Poland, so that it is not so that after the change of government the direction of policy towards Ukraine changes. That's what would be very important... I do not know whether this is possible in view of the current temperature of the political dispute, but I believe that we need really long-term action programmes calculated for really long years. However, I really do understand that political thinking is a little different. I'm a politician, I'm not a politician, so I understand the intention that when the anniversary comes, something has to be done. But really going this way, I don't think you're going to achieve the expected result. Doesn't mean you shouldn't do anything. Of course this should be done, the resolution is needed, but, as I say, I would not expect a rapid effect after this, because Ukraine is also divided in this matter. Just as you in this Chamber are divided in this matter, so the Ukrainians are divided. And we must search there for allies among those who believe. And there are such Ukrainians. That Stepan Bandera is not necessarily the best figure for the icon of Ukrainian statehood. We need to find an understanding with them. We know we can't convince everyone. It is important, however, that we convince the important part of them that prevails there. So much for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u60	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any questions for you... Senator Elephant. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is a question that I also address to other candidates. Many countries have a very active historical policy, without regretting either the means or the penny for such a policy, for raising national awareness, for educational policy. In your opinion, which state deserves to be regarded as exemplary, one that can somehow be replicated or tried to apply some of its elements to the operation of the Institute of National Remembrance in order to produce the most expected results? And second question. Hypothetically, you're standing here... Let us imagine that he is presenting a report to us at the end of his term of office. What would you consider? If you were able to do that. For the success of your passing term in college? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u62	As far as the first question is concerned, there are several countries in Europe that have a very active historical policy. Rather, we should focus on democratic countries, which are our allies, not those which are our opponents and where the level of democracy raises doubts. So from these democratic countries for me... undoubtedly what the French, Germans and British are doing, that is, I would say, the most active historical policy on a European scale. There are Russians at the second pole. But I wouldn't want to copy any model directly, especially since we have a different story. In other countries, there's no... Although in Germany there is an equivalent of our IPN, it can be said that we could mostly benefit from the German experience. But I do think... I will say immodestly, but this is the assessment of specialists in Europe, that today the Polish IPN is better rated than the German representative office for the Stasi cases, i.e. the former so-called. Gauck's office. Why? It is because we have developed a lot of non-archival activities, in the area of historical policy, which this German office has not done, but the Germans still have many other institutions that deal with historical policy. Well, I wouldn't want to move any model, but I'd like to take advantage of some experience, as well as make up my own stuff. And for me, an example... I am convinced that if this educational centre in Łódź starts working as planned, we will probably be visited by professionals from different countries and copy our model, because it will meet with great interest of young people. And as for the second question, let me say this: I would very much like to see success in the educational field. I'm not hiding that this area is the most important to me after all. Of course, exhumations, commemoration, etc. are also extremely important. But what will it do to commemorate even the greatest Polish heroes when most of society doesn't know who it is and what it is? So education, education and education again. As far as the Internet is concerned, I believe that as a council, And here I'm fighting in my chest. And the current President of Kaminski did not succeed... I mean, for example. Internet TV IPN. We really couldn't do that for one simple reason. These are very expensive things. All projects relating to Internet space are very expensive matters, of which the senators are probably aware. To sum up, education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Żaryn. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u64	I would like to ask the question again to all candidates. And I hope we can hear the answers from everyone. I'm not hiding that this question is intentional in some way such a... In any case, the point is that historical politics is certainly the leading task of the Institute of National Remembrance. Could you tell us the situation in the past of the Institute of National Remembrance It wasn't theoretical, it was a real situation for you to say non possumus, but it didn't say? I'll tell you what. Besides, I publicly expressed not only my concern, but my disagreement to invite this man to an institute called the Institute of National Remembrance. I believe that the invitation of Professor Jan Tomas Grossa was the situation where the IPN should say: non possumus. I believe that this man who has committed a violation of basic workshop truths and basic canons of scientific art should not be honored by an institution called the Institute of National Remembrance. I'm not saying that this example is the one and the most accurate. But I would like to know if you felt that there was such a situation in the history of the IPN, that the IPN had erred in the conduct of historical politics when it should have said non possumus, and it did not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u65	I think the case you discussed is an example. That's the situation. I agree with him. I generally believe that the invitation of Professor Gross was a mistake. I just want to clarify that the situation looked like this, that he was not invited to a conference, the sole organizer of which was the Institute of National Remembrance, only it was a conference organized by 3 entities, including the Center for Holocaust Research of Jews of the Polish Academy of Sciences, and it was their guest Gross. I believe that the institute should have refused to hold the conference at that time, but the organizers decided that, however, they would decide to invite Professor Gross as a guest of this Center for Holocaust Research of Jews. And Gross was actually in the IPN conference center, which was a mistake. We discussed this later, and in my opinion President Kaminski understood this error. As far as I know, Professor Gross was never invited again. Were there other situations? Here's what I'm gonna say. the moment of the burial of General Jaruzelski and President Kaminski reacted; the council could also react. The Council meets a little less frequently and the matter was quite urgent, so the Council did not react publicly then, but President Kaminski reacted on behalf of the Institute. I cannot show other such obvious cases as regards the area of historical policy, but I believe that we have actually been too weak in protesting, for example. in a situation where the Institute of National Remembrance lost its headquarters. We then sent a letter to Prime Minister Tusk, and I called for it to be an open letter, unfortunately I was voted out, colleagues from the board thought that it was simply not necessary to escalate the tension. Well, it turns out that maybe you should have used this open letter after all. These are, however, such errors, I would say, more technical, organizational. And I don't think the institute has made any major mistakes in recent years in terms of politics. You can discuss certain books. I know that some of the books published by the institute are controversial. But I want to remind you that the institute is publishing about 200 books a year, and some of them will always be controversial, considered to be tilted one way or the other. In my opinion, here I would defend the Institute's right to publish controversial books, even those which do not exactly fit into the mainstream historical policy that the IPN is leading. This is about scientific pluralism. Of course he can't... And in my opinion, the institute has never published a single book that would glorify a communist dictatorship, and there is no such book. There are various views of the subject of recent history, also from this ideological perspective, which we may not share. But they can appear, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Rusiecki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Professor, I have two questions. In your speech at the beginning, you drew attention to the low level of historical knowledge, let us generally call it in society, both among adults and among young people. I would like to know how your academic experience and your experience in the work of an institution such as the IPN, what are the reasons, in your opinion, or what are the barriers to changing this situation. That's the first question. The second question is how you assess the relations of the Institute of National Remembrance with the Ministry of National Education regarding the construction of a programme of historical knowledge at the secondary and secondary level. What could be done to make things better? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u68	It can be said that both Senator's questions are linked, because in my opinion the main cause of poor historical knowledge of young Poles is, of course, the way of teaching history in schools. This, in my opinion, is slowly improving, but we have had a period of several years in which the history of the second half of the 20th century was not really taught at all, and science ended in World War II. As a result, young people, if they tried, there was something there they knew about the breakup of the district, while the post-war history of Poland was completely unrecognizable to them. I was constantly dealing with it as an academic lecturer on the occasion of the next year. It's getting better right now, because it's actually... but it's only partially because, for example, The first class of high school is really only science of the history of the 20th century, but then the part that chooses a non-humanistic profile, no more history. So in my opinion, we just need more history lessons in schools. But you also have to work with teachers, because let's be clear... And this is much harder, because paradoxically it's easier to change programs, it's much harder to actually train a teacher, and teachers don't want to... Why? Well, as they studied, they were not taught that, they were usually taught history until World War II. Therefore, they are reluctant to go into these issues, especially as they are politically controversial. And that's why IPN has been trying to work with teachers on a large scale from the beginning, i.e. with schools and with students, too, but we thought that we had to focus on teachers first. There have been many programmes addressed to teachers by the Public Education Office, which have been implemented for several years. Of course, their scale was also dependent on the willingness of teachers. The fact that the IPN presented various offers did not mean that these teachers would want to take them; the reactions were very different. Today, of course, the issue of cooperation with the Ministry of National Education is important. I do not hide that this cooperation has not been very good in recent years, although different in different periods. However, I have the impression that today the Minister is very institution-oriented and that this cooperation will bring concrete results, of course in the form of consultations on certain programmes, because the IPN cannot impose anything. I'd be very scared if the institute were to take the form of a state office that's supposed to educate out-of-school, and that's compulsory. No, I think the institute should just help schools and it does. Of course, it does so to some extent; it depends on its budgetary and organisational capacity. We return here to the issue of territorial division. Well, it's much easier to help in big cities where there are branches of the institute, it's harder where there are delegations, because they're small teams. In turn, where there are no cells of the institute, it is much more difficult to provide assistance. And that's where this unfortunate territorial division is bowing down. Minsk Mazowiecki under the Lublin branch... A change in the administrative division of the institute would be very helpful here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u70	Professor, I have a question. I return to the question of genocide which the Ukrainians committed on the Polish people in Volhynia and in Eastern Małopolska. Do you believe that the Institute has given sufficient importance to this scope in its work, both in educational, publishing and archivistic research?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u71	In my opinion, we've done a lot in this area. It began, as I remember, with the first educational package that was created in 2002; it was actually the beginning. Then there was a lot of conferences. What is important, in cooperation with the Ukrainian archive was and is issued a series of documents concerning Polish-Ukrainian relations, published not only in Polish but also in Ukrainian. So, in my opinion, the institute has done a lot. Could he have done more? Yes, we certainly could have done more. The problem also applies to specialists. In order to do so and to approach these matters wisely, you have to have people who have very much knowledge, starting with a runaway knowledge of Ukraine, and contrary to appearances of such people there are not many. In my opinion, it's a matter of... And so it was. I'm going to do an analogy with the study of the Nazi occupation, the German occupation. Well, in the 1990s, a research process was interrupted, and suddenly it turned out that there was a problem with researchers who knew German and had the right preparation, because at universities they actually stopped doing and educating in this area at all. So that's the problem that in the future... I mean, this is a challenge, and the development of this would actually take place in cooperation with the Ukrainians. In my opinion, there is a special task here in the Rzeszow branch of the institute, because it is by nature that he must take on this burden. It is similar, for example, with the Szczecin branch as regards relations with Germany. I think there's a lot of work to be done in this case, but, as I say, I'm going to repeat what I said at the beginning. The results should not be expected in months or even years. This is really an extremely difficult process, which we must conduct very carefully. Now there is a special Polish-Ukrainian commission, a committee of historians, which was set up by the Polish IPN and the Ukrainian Institute. I'm not on this committee, but I've spoken to my colleagues who are sitting there. And they clearly say that this dialogue is very difficult. It was mentioned here about the head of the Ukrainian institute, UIPN, Mr Windrowych, but many other people, many Ukrainian historians, do not want to acknowledge the fact of genocide in Volyn; at all costs they try to explain it in various ways, contrary to obvious historical facts. However, as I say, these are not all Ukrainian historians. We need to focus on this part of Ukrainian historians and on this part of Ukrainian society, which is more open to our arguments. We cannot constantly, I would say, empathize and be outraged at this nationalistic part, because she does not want to communicate with us and we will never communicate with her. We must try to communicate with the part that is willing to do so, because it understands the reasons not only historical, but current, part that is looking for an agreement with Poland. This is an extremely delicate matter and, as I say, I would not expect rapid results in this field.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u72	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you, Professor. (Candidate to the College of National Remembrance Institute of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish Antoni Dudek: Thank you.) [[Applause]] Would any of your senators like to ask Mr. Andrzej Roman Kołodziej a question? [[There were questions already asked.]] I know, but please... I'm asking that question again because until now we've asked the first candidate, and now I'm asking you to ask the next one. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. Welcome to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u73	Mr. Andrzeju, no, officially I have to turn to you. In addition to these historical merits, which I have already mentioned, your greatest credit is that you made a one-man strike at the Shipyard of the Paris Community in Gdynia in August 1980. Tell me, do you also write, do you do research, if so, what were the studies, historical studies about this period?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u74	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It's a story of this sort of thing... Somehow it happened for me to live in very interesting times, I had a bit of an active part in events. Well, so active that it allowed me to be here in the Senate of free Poland. After this active activity I work closely with the Institute of National Remembrance, mainly in the field of education and this Maybe it's also the answer to one of the questions. I consider it one of the most important things for the Institute of National Remembrance. Because in this field there are huge gaps, not only the expectations of young people are increasing, but also the lack of staff to teach. Teachers don't know history, they don't want to take care of it, they don't teach history to young people and they don't have state aid. This is the middle part. I run the Pomeranian Historical Initiative Foundation. These are my own publications, but also this foundation. And this foundation of ours is filling a gap that I think is between the Institute of National Remembrance and schools, currently middle schools and secondary schools. On our own initiative, we activate the students and provide them with materials developed by the Institute of National Remembrance or help them obtain documents from the archive collections of the Institute of National Remembrance, because the students do not have such opportunities. In addition, we actively deal with the environments of people actively fighting for independence of Poland at various stages, this concerns mainly I live in Gdynia, so we operate in Gdynia In the 1970's and 1980's, the 1980's. We deal with this on a continuous basis. These are publications dedicated to people, heroes August 1980 in Gdynia, publications that we have been publishing for 5 years. Now it's gonna be the fifth edition. They concern the people who participated in this. As far as I know, we are the only city that, together with the president, broadcasts on our initiative and with the support of the Gdańsk Branch of the Institute of National Remembrance a badge to the heroes of August 1980. Gdynia for the courage to act against the totalitarian system at that time. And they all receive it regardless of party membership today or ever, in the past All the people who had the courage then, who had the courage to do so. And that's the mutual complement with the Institute. At our place in Gdynia it's going pretty well, but as far as I know, we're the only such a center, the only city, because these are expensive things, schools can't afford it. The Institute also has limited resources, but I think within 7 years of our Gdynia foundation we have made several dozen exhibitions, publications, at least 2 films made by students, patriotic song competitions, art competitions. We've engaged young people, but as a foundation, we've supported it financially, because schools don't have the resources to say so. And this is a complementary form, intermediate between the institute and the recipients of this education. As far as I know. I'm well aware because we're working in all these historical areas. The Department of Education of the Institute of National Remembrance is quite well prepared in terms of resources, preparation of educational files, various collections, materials, games or historical messages for students of different ages. But there's no commitment from the schools. That's a major problem. And that's the role, I think, of the Ministry of Education and of the State's educational foundation in general. We need to think seriously about what to do about it, because the future of historical education, especially in the area of recent history, does not look good. So that's what I do every day, and I think it's very valuable, because I see this effect, positive effects in Gdynia, where young people, so to speak, once moved to this action, take action, especially in the area of commemorating the history of their own backyard, their own neighborhood, their own street, their own city. It covers this story in its own way, and that's how it formulates the message. It's clear and easy to read to your peers. And this is the best form, the best way for young people to do it for young people. Because they get to each other the best. There was also a question, addressed to everyone, I think it was an extension... [[I'll ask you to repeat those questions.]] ...implications - If I remember correctly. For scientific staff and people working in the media. I think that we should know who they are about all those who are involved in public communications, and we should know where they come from. Because sometimes it can be inspired differently. The same applies to higher education. Unfortunately, there are serious negligence here. I, despite my age, in a way provocatively... I have such personal experience, because when I studied at the Naval Academy in Gdynia, I started writing a work, which is in a sense historical today for the IPN, because concerning the process of Navy commanders in Stalinist times and their situation in the conditions of a totalitarian state in an environment in which these people, so to speak, worked and from which they were removed. This was true of those commanders who had not been identified so long ago, their remains were found on the Link. I wrote this at the university, in the Navy environment, where they were still then, lectured people who then found themselves as a result of a positive release for them of places after cleaning at the Navy Academy made in Stalinist times. And these people still didn't cover their political sympathies by giving out today, 24 or 25 years after they regained their independence. Well, that was shocking to me. Or the fact that young people who happen to come to me... who are denied the right to take care of, for example, at university, at the cathedral of law. The theme of Solidarity Fighting, the largest organization of independence of the 1980s, because the head of the cathedral thinks it is inappropriate and proposes that we better address the subject maybe a little older, somewhere around the First World War. And these are issues that are still fresh. Well, we shouldn't educate young people like that. And universities shouldn't be blocked that way. So... But it's not a matter of... This is not the responsibility of the Institute of National Remembrance, but it is the responsibility of the government. And here, in my opinion, we would need some action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u76	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Among the many awards and awards you have received for your work... I'll just list a few of the many. On 3 May 1988, you were awarded President Kazimierz Sabbat as the Bachelor's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland by the decision of the Polish Government in exile. In 2006, you were awarded for outstanding merits in the activities for democratic change in Poland, for your achievements in professional and social work by the deceased. President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, Commander's Cross of the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Deserved for Solidarity, many decorations for activities in the structures of Solidarity Fighting... I would like to remind you that you were the president after the arrest of Cornel Morawiecki. But it's also... Of course, also the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity... But there is also the award of 15 December 2014, you are the winner of the.Witness of History award, it is an honorary award awarded by the Institute of National Remembrance. Tell us, give us a closer look: what reward is this, and for what accomplishments?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u78	This is an award of the Institute of National Remembrance, which the Institute grants to people particularly worthy of history in a given area, to commemorate this story, not only its creation. 'Cause as far as I'm concerned... Because I participated in the creation of a new reality, but I am also actively working to commemorate these events, not only those that I myself dealt with, but all related to regaining Poland's independence and things important for the history of the newest in Poland, not only the coast. I admit that I am a little proud of the fact that one of the initiatives that we took in a very narrow group was the preparation of the exhibition and the involvement of the IPN in commemorating the figure of the rottmaster Pilecki, which in Wrocław as Solidarity Fighting we printed many years ago... In any case, these were the first exhibitions for the Institute of National Remembrance and later also went to Brussels. And then we were interested in this topic of people, employees of the Institute of National Remembrance and it had very positive results. So that the subjects and Soldiers of the Cursed, the people of 1956 fighting the totalitarian system, 1970, 1980, the eighties to the end... It is particularly important for me to search for these silhouettes, such heroes of symbols, who are authorities for today's young people. I think this award is for all such actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u79	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u80	I would like to return to history and to your resume, a very colorful, very important, heroic one, that is what you thought in Gdansk in 1980, because you tore up the Shipyard to them. Paris Communion to strike in August 1980. If you wanted to approximate this, also your activity in Solidarity after this strike, I would ask for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u81	It's so hard to say in a few sentences, but I'll try. I started out as a young boy when I was 19, in Free Trade Unions. It's a little bit described in this sketch of our work from that time. As it turned out, these were extremely important actions, preparations, because of which this August revolt was born. These were the foundations of the strike for which we were prepared in substance. That's how it turned out. And then there was the solidarity. We knew that, so to speak, we were the only professionals to carry out the revolution, to the point that when I was sent to the Shipyard in August 1980. Parish commune in Gdynia at the suggestion of Bogdan Borusewicz, then our leader in the Free Trade Unions, the first day I came, faced the challenge of organizing a strike among people sometimes definitely older than me, in an establishment in which several thousand people stood before me, where I knew absolutely no one and did not know the topography of this plant. That strike went well. It turned out that at certain times, if it had not been for the support of this shipyard in Gdynia, there would probably have been no August agreement. In Gdynia shipyard there was one thing, one can say, the most important thing for August, which I would like to mention, is the Free Printing House of Gdynia Shipyard, which we then created actually on a revolutionary basis, interning the director and taking over the printing house By force. This was the first moment in the communist country to break censorship on such a scale, because the Gdynia Shipyard Free Print House spent over 3 million prints and for many days they were the only form of real information transmission in the country. That's where the feedback came from. Thanks to flyers with postulates, delegations came and supported us blindly, our Inter-Business Strike Committee in Gdańsk, only on the basis of postulates read in our leaflets. It's such a very important event to be commemorated. We try to commemorate it locally, there are actions like that. Later I was creating a Solidarity, then working in the underground in Gdansk. At some point, I've moved on. It wasn't enough for me to have a relationship to create an independence movement. I thought that an independent trade union could not exist in the totalitarian system, so it was simply necessary to change this totalitarian system, to overthrow it, hence my commitment to Solidarity Fighting and then to act until the end of the 1980s in the solidarity ranks already fighting under the banner... Of course, on the basis of solidarity and based on ideas of Solidarity, but already in the pursuit of full regaining Poland's independence. That's one way to put it. Several publications include: Free Trade Unions of the Coast, Gdynia communal communities or the Solidarity Fighting Division of the Tri-City. These are books that can bring it closer, and it's hard to tell in a more brief way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u82	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the candidate? [[I was asking...]] Because the professor asked the same question, but I ask you to repeat it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u83	Okay, Mr. Marshal, if there is such a convention, I'm going to ask these two questions again, linking them now with a great request for a synthetic answer. First. What are your 3 priorities if you are elected as a member of the college? And second question. In your opinion, when in the past the Institute of National Remembrance was such an event, such a moment at which it was necessary to say non possumus, and this was not said in relation to the historical policy pursued by the National Remembrance Institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u85	The three most important lines of action are: education, which I have already said a lot about, which is very important to me, archive, of course this archive collection and its conduct... This is today's primary source of work. I'm using it myself, and I know how important and documentary it is. So it's important. Also the subject which I have also been dealing with for years, i.e. the period of the second conspiracy, Soldiers of the Cursed. These are today's patterns for a young generation who is looking for a reference to this, so this is a very important topic for me. As for the cases where the Institute made some mistakes, I would repeat Professor Antony Dudek's main things, which were not always the fault of the Institute itself, as in the case of Thomas Gross. I know a mistake that I'm pointing out to the Institute of Memory, but it's a different historical one, namely the encyclopedia of the Institute of National Remembrance doesn't contain the slogan 'Solidarity Fighting', I don't understand why, and no one explained it to me. And it was the largest independent organization of the 1980s. I don't know, no one explained it to me. It's weird, there's treatments around it. But I hope it makes up for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u86	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much. [[Candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals Andrzej Kołodzie: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. Wojciech Pole a question? Come on, we have a series of identical questions for all candidates, but the convention is this, forgive me if I don't take notes and pass them on. Please ask the same questions to the next candidates. [[I'd have the same questions.]] Professor Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u87	Mr. Marshal, I hope the candidate remembers these questions, because that's the way it should be, but I will repeat them, of course. It is about the 3 priorities of the Institute of National Remembrance, as from the point of view of a member of the college they should sound today and possibly tomorrow. Because as we know, the Institute of National Remembrance is an institution that is developing in terms of changing scope of competence, and that is changing in one direction, i.e. competences are increasing. And the question about the situation in the past, in which, in your opinion, the IPN should clearly say non possumus from the point of view of creating Polish historical policy, both offensive and defensive, i.e. protection of a good name. I will also remind you of Senator Jackowski's question, because he is absent and in turn asked about the scope of the vetting, whether he should also include it in the form of catalogs of media people, culture, science, widely understood education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u88	Maybe I'll start with the last question. I believe that yes, the scope of the vetting should be extended to those categories that Senator Jackowski mentioned. As for the most important tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance, above all, ladies and gentlemen, this is what we call historical policy. In fact, there have been many misunderstandings around this term, because some historical politics are associated with some intrusive propaganda. No, it's not about propaganda. Here this term is actually associated with the word "education." In recent years, there has been a complete collapse in the historical education of the young generation, and I see it by working at a university, ladies and gentlemen. Besides, it is not just a collapse in historical education, it is a collapse in all education and the loss of certain cultural codes. If I, in my lecture, at a university at some point refer to Mr Tadeusz, to the submarine court After all, the whole action of Mr. Tadeusz is a submarine court And I ask, what were the two feuds of the Lord of Tadeusz, and there are 50 students in the room, and no one can name them. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is very bad with our education, it is very bad with our historical education, and here the Institute of National Remembrance can help a lot. These reforms, which have recently been introduced, i.e. the separation of the scientific vertical from the educational vertical, can also increase the work. Of course, cooperation is needed here. We've already talked about this in this room today. With the Ministry of Education. If the school reform is carried out, new programmes will, of course, be needed. Ladies and gentlemen, this nonsense of ending historical education at the first grade of high school has to stop, because it causes complete illiteracy among young people. But, of course, historical education or this widely understood historical policy should be addressed not only to young people but also to adults, ladies and gentlemen. And that should be smart. I believe that knowledge of home history is part of a national identity. You can't be a good Pole, a good patriot without knowing your mother's history. Only that this knowledge of history must be taught, especially to adults, in an intelligent way. I think, for example. Nothing would have happened if the Institute of National Remembrance had helped, in different ways, to make good feature films, often about sensational action, with good actors, even if downloaded from Hollywood. I know that when you make movies, you spin five, and the masterpiece turns out to be one. But let's have a movie like this made, ladies and gentlemen. He'd do a lot more good than some translated historical works. It's probably not a lot of people to read and a good historical film. Let him have a sensational thread, and let him be a little James Bond-like. He can do it. He can do it. He can do A lot of good. And in our history there are many such threads, e.g. The Enigma case. What would hurt to make a film that would show who really broke that German encryption machine, which changed the course of World War II? It is known that the Poles, our three brilliant graduates of Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań, did it. Ladies and gentlemen, historical policy should also be directed abroad. And that's the kind of work that movies can do a lot of good, too. In fact, we must definitely defend Polish dignity, in defence of Poland's accusations of murdering Jews, respond decisively to any accusations or wording of the type of Polish concentration camps, etc. So this is the second aspect in which the Institute of National Remembrance also has a big role to play. Historical policy, education is the first level. The second plane is archival for me. We must strive to ensure that the archives are fully organized. Now there's still work to be done on this restricted set. There's one thing to think about, ladies and gentlemen. I know it's expensive, it's hard, but it's probably something that doesn't miss the Institute of National Remembrance about digitization of collections, so that in the future a historian doesn't have to go to a reading room, he doesn't have to go to an archive, so he can just download it all off the internet. I think that, despite the cost, it is possible to do this, and I think such a plan for digitising the harvest should be created and this should start to happen. Of course, I hope that exhumation work will continue. I believe that finding the remains of our national heroes is our duty. And it was very bad that so many years after 1990 this work had not been done. Since they are now being taken, they must be taken with an iron consequence, despite the various problems that we know to pursue. This new law gives us tools and I hope it will be systematically done. What else was the question? [[Non possumus.]] Non possumus, yes. Of course, about Jan Tomasz Gross, I think it's a complete scandal. And here, I don't think I'm any different from most countries. But there are other things. For example, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Institute of National Remembrance has probably done too little to explain the Silk case. And I believe that many facts point to a much greater role of the Germans in this crime, or simply that this crime is the work of Germans who for Poles predicted the role of just spent passive viewers. There's a lot of evidence, there's a lot of evidence to suggest that. So it seems to me that the Silk case should be taken from the beginning and taken care of from the beginning, because what has been done so far has not been It's done well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u89	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, sir... [[I do.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u90	Professor, you ran for Senate in 2011... [[Candidate for a Member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Wojciech Polak: Yes.]] ...from the list... Are you a member of some political party?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u91	Yes, I'm a member of the Law and Justice Party. [[Bravo! Bravo, Professor!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u92	Thank you very much. No questions. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr Tadeusz Wojciech Wolsz a question? Come on in... Because we have a series of questions that have been asked by the same candidates. Professor Zarin's questions and... [[Candidate for a Member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: I remember some of the questions.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u93	I've memorized them, and if I've missed one, I'd ask your senators to remind me. The first question concerned the extension of the vetting. Of course, I do not hide that as an employee of the Institute of History of the Polish Academy of Sciences and a member of the Scientific Council of the Institute And I've been vice-president for many years. I have repeatedly called for the widest possible extension of the vetting among academics, creators and journalists. In addition, as a member of the Council of the Institute of National Remembrance or earlier, as coordinator of the team appointed by the holy memory president Janusz Kurtyka, I led a group of young researchers who carried out research on a similar level. The case concerned the activities of the Security Service in relation to creative, scientific and journalistic environments. Although there was no question of the vetting, these young researchers conducted a very wide-ranging study in this area. And at least on the basis of these studies and those publications, they saw the light of day, as I remember correctly, 24 volumes of various kinds of studies and materials, under which it was necessary to illustrate the fact that journalists and scientists, and talent people, as is often said about creators. Therefore, although it was not officially there, it developed in some residual form as part of research conducted by the Institute of National Remembrance. I think that I, as well as my previous speakers, am a scientist at the Polish Academy of Sciences and at the University of Kazimierz Wielki in Bydgoszcz. And I'm assuming that the vetting should be subject to... well, maybe not all academics, but at least independent academics, those who promote bachelors, masters, doctors, review academics at the level of doctoral, habilitation and professorship. These people should be flawless, therefore, at least in this environment is necessary. In answer to Professor Jan Żaryn's question, two questions have been asked, of course many very interesting proposals have already been made today, and I could sign under them all, because I also believe that education and archives are the most important. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that two important elements are being introduced in the new law, and I believe that this was a step in a very good direction. First of all, I'll start with this. The establishment of a scientific foundation at the Institute of National Remembrance. Of course, I do not want to say that so far there have been no scientists at the Institute of Scientific Remembrance, because currently more than 2 000 employees work there, of which a large percentage are outstanding scientists, but the separation of this unit is an important step in the development of the Institute of National Remembrance. I consider this to be one of the most important achievements in this bill and in general the idea of the function that the Institute of National Remembrance would perform in the future. Because in this earlier hand... Under this earlier law, scientists sometimes had to prepare exhibitions, go to schools, teach lectures for schoolchildren. Very rarely, however, they had time to conduct their own research. And now, thanks to this solution, they have received as an important argument for their activities, they have received time for research and will not be subject to other responsibilities, so there is nothing preventing them from developing scientifically. I have my doubts only about this: shouldn't this idea be strengthened or this research vertical something that resembles scientific advice? I'm talking about a piece of advice from the National Remembrance Institute. I am aware that she will not have any such powers as scientific councils at universities or at the Polish Academy of Sciences, but it would be an advisory body that would perhaps make it easier for young researchers who think of a doctorate, and for older people who think about habilitation, e.g. searching for programs or ideas for scientific work; members of such a council could promote doctoral work. I imagine that such a scientific council at the institute would be composed of independent employees working at the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. doctors of habilitation and professors And I guarantee you that they are no longer missing, every year there are about twenty-six doctors, three, four habilitated doctors, and a few professors, although the least... So the staff are here. But we could also bring outside workers to this scientific council, and they could then play the role of job promoters. At least doctoral staff at the Institute of National Remembrance. This is obviously an idea, an idea, but I think it's worth thinking about. And if I had the opportunity, I wouldn't hide that when it comes to at least this piece of work, I would go in that direction. Second point And this is the answer to the second question of Professor, Senator Jan Żaryn or the second element which I also consider to be very important, valuable, is to raise the rank of the team of Professor Krzysztof Szwagrzyk. It was an independent cell earlier, but it was a small cell phone. Professor Szwagrzyk has been complaining all the time, asking for advice to strengthen this team. At that time, Krzysztof Szwagrzyk himself was on the team, plus one person employed on the job. As far as I remember, it was an archaeologist. And one part-time person, but I can't tell you what that person was doing on this team right now, and that was it. The others were volunteers who followed Krzysztof Szwagrzyk and carried out difficult tasks in the field, connected not only with the search, but also with the extraction of drugs and later with the conduct of specialist research. And now this team will be greatly strengthened, and I think this is a step in the right direction. That's a great solution. The creation of a separate vertical, the increase in the number of employees of this vertical and the extension of the team's research field, I mean geography. It will not only be Złączka in Warsaw, the Brodnowski Cemetery or the cemetery at Wałbrzychska Street, where research has been conducted so far, with great success and success. It is also a transfer of research into the field, to other regions of Poland. We have already conducted these studies in Bialystok, we have carried out studies in Gdansk And found Danuta's ashes. Inki, we have research conducted in Łomża. I know there are other studies planned, e.g. the search for drugs of the branch of Bartka in Opole region, i.e. Captain Flame. So there is a good chance that if we can still transfer this search research to Lublin, let's say, to Łódź, to Cracow. The scenes of the crime scenes have already been established. The Institute of National Remembrance has already established where they were murdered and where they may be buried. The point is that you have to have a big team and resources for it. And since this team's rank has been elevated, it's highly likely that these tests will succeed. I just want to remind you that Krzysztof Szwagrzyk had previously conducted identical research at the Personal Cemetery in Wrocław. Of the more than 300 recovered remains, 80% were identified there. murdered soldiers of the second conspiracy and anti-communist opposition activists. Therefore, in my opinion, this idea is moving in the best direction. I consider this to be the second important element of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance, an element that emerged after the amendment of the law. Third thing. It's been mentioned, but I'd like to get back to it. That's the point. That's the archive. All gentlemen have talked about it, but this is really important, because without archives there will be no research. However we look at this problem, it's a thing to do. There was talk of digitisation. This digitisation is implemented and this is one of the most important elements of the work of the Institute of National Remembrance. I mean, the Institute of National Remembrance wants to create such an opportunity right now so that you can use the documentation without going to the archives on Kłobucka Street. This can be done by other means, for example by electronic means. From time to time, delegations from abroad come from the Institute of National Remembrance, which visit not only the management, not only educational pawns or scientific pawns, but mainly direct their steps to the archive at Kłobucka Street. And according to all the opinions I know, at the moment this archive is rated as one of the best at least in Europe when it comes to organising work, how documents are made available, how documents are handled and how documents can be used. So there is really great progress here, although it should be considered that the scale of digitisation should go in such a way as to make this digitisation as much as possible. The digitization includes, of course, the central archive of the Institute of National Remembrance at Kłobucka Street, but there are still branch archives. All branches of the Institute of National Remembrance also follow in the same direction. One of the most important elements is the strengthening of this activity. About the question. I don't remember which one of the senators asked them anymore. It's about public education... Then the senator will remind me of his question. Okay? My colleagues were talking about public education, but one thread was left out, and I will return to this matter. We were just talking about education through the branches of the Institute of National Remembrance, through delegations, but there was also a question... The problem concerns Częstochowa, where there is no such thing as the Institute of National Remembrance. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Institute of National Remembrance has once initiated the activities of Grot-Rowecki clubs. These are institutions which once a month, and sometimes more often organize meetings with historians, with researchers, with activists of the democratic opposition. And nothing stands in the way of... [[Voice from the room: water, please.]] Thank you very much. And nothing prevents the network of such clubs Grot-Rowecki, discussion clubs, from organizing in cities where there is no branch or delegation. These clubs of Grota-Rowecki operate in those cities where there are also branches and delegations, but without a shadow of a doubt it is possible to initiate a network of such clubs also in towns or cities located up to 100 or 200 km from the premises of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is an idea that can be realized. And it is not excluded that it would be possible to begin in this new term of office implementing such an initiative in the structures of the Institute of National Remembrance. These first clubs were formed on the initiative of the National Remembrance Institute, and then they ruled themselves, acting on their own, although with great help from the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr. Marshal, if you would just remind me of the question now, because I don't remember your question... Well, you asked me a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u94	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u95	Yeah, yeah, but I'd like to ask two other questions... [[Candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: Ah, here you go.]] And those, if you don't mind... [[Candidate for a Member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: I no longer remember that question.]] Good. This first question concerned how you assess changes in IPN after the adoption of this new law... [[Candidate for a Member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: Yes, well.]] ...but I actually already know...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u96	I already told you that. I believe that these changes have gone in the right direction. I think that strengthening some verticals was very useful. Of course I can...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u97	Okay, okay, I've heard that before. I heard that, so I'm just reminding you of that question. I have two other questions for you. Don't you think that just as in the case of Grot-Rowecki's clubs, about which you said that this activity supports and as if it complements the activities of IPN... Don't you think? This was said by one of the candidates, Andrzej Kołodziej That it's this kind of action, just under a different name? That's the first question. The next question is related to the fact that I was with a Senate delegation in Podol, in two towns, in Bar and Kamienica Podolski. In the Bar we were in the female, Catholic order, and in the Podolski Stone, in the Podominican church, which at the moment is a paulin church. What I want to touch in the question concerns the complex in Kamienica Podolski and the former Dominican assembly. Well, the sisters in the Bar, and the people in the Podominian church, and the conservators from Poland, and the local Catholic bishop who spoke about the Dominican complex, all of them said that in the undergrounds of these complexes there were piles of bones sprinkled with lime. They were overdue, because at the moment this situation is only in the Dominican complex in Kamienica Podolski, and from the other bone complexes were exported, as it was said, it was 40 trucks in Kamienica Podolski They were buried dignifiedly and in accordance with the Christian tradition. Nevertheless, the church authorities do not notify the authorities of the prosecutor's office or the Ukrainian IPN and the Polish IPN for completely prosaic reasons, so, completely prosaic, because they want to carry out repairs quickly. I ask this because in 1937, there was also a so-called one in this area. Polish action carried out by NKWD. 101 thousand 400 Poles were shot. [[Candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: Some say there were more victims, about 130 thousand.]] Good. I'm not arguing. [[Candidate for a Member of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: We will not argue about the number.]] According to the NKVD material, that's the number of victims. I suspect it could be the bones. But you don't do documentation, you don't look at it, you don't take photographs, you lose documentaries. [[We're asking questions for one minute.]] Now. I have a question for you. Don't you think, like me, that the Polish IPN should be interested in this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u98	Mr. Marshal, I believe, as you do, that the Institute of National Remembrance should be very interested in this, especially since at the moment the chronological scope of the research of the Institute of National Remembrance, as you know very well, was extended until 1917, including the identification of the victims of communist and Stalinist crimes. So the case of victims of Polish action carried out by the NKVD in Ukraine, the Soviet Union, of whatever we would like to talk about, also in other areas, is subject to research by the Institute of National Remembrance. The Institute of National Remembrance should take the initiative here as much as possible. I can't imagine how this could be arranged for me right now. Perhaps in some cooperation with the structures of the institute in Ukraine, you might be able to use some assistance in this area, but This is what we've been talking about today. The situation is difficult when it comes to such a very sincere dialogue. The point is that the Ukrainians simply do not accept the Polish side's number of victims of the Volyn slaughter, in turn they overwhelm their number of victims, and this in turn they do not want to accept Polish researchers. This is perhaps the most important element of this dispute. This case concerns... Exactly, out of 100,000 are estimated Polish victims, in turn Ukrainian victims, in fact as a result of Polish self-defense... My mom's family came from over there from Old Sambor. I from family stories know what these events were like in 1942, in 1943, and I know that there must be good will on both sides. I am 100% sure that the Institute of National Remembrance will make such efforts, and I suspect that not only regarding those areas that you spoke of by the Marshal, but also others, but also whether it can be understood among the representatives of the Ukrainian authorities or the Ukrainian National Remembrance Institute, I have serious doubts, I have doubts about this, the eyes can be dealt with quickly. The idea is important, it is necessary and undoubtedly requires a quick response, here I have a look identical to your marshal. As for the first question and what Mr Kołodziej said, it is, of course, one with the other. I just want to add, which I did not mention, and I should also say that it is not just the clubs of Grota. Institute of National Remembrance You must also be aware of this, because you represent Poland as a whole, you come as representatives of the Senate elected in various parts of our homeland, but in almost every big city there are Katyn families, Sibirak families, associations of families of victims of communist crimes. The Institute of National Remembrance therefore cooperates very widely with these institutions, with these environments. And this is also an opportunity to conduct public education among residents of just not necessarily large cities, those which are the headquarters of voivodships, but also residents of district cities, and even smaller ones. This is a great environment and the role of the Institute of National Remembrance should be coordination, coordination of its activities, activities of Grota-Rowecki clubs, sibirak clubs, Katyn families and various regional institutions which currently operate in the public space of the whole of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Professor, I have a question about what you mentioned to Marshal Borusewicz. Because as far as extending the chronological scope that the Institute of National Remembrance is concerned, in the light of the new law, this is the period since 1917... I mean, how do you imagine, how you view the possibility of some constructive cooperation with Russian archives. Many documents, which concern various activities in relation to Poles or Polish citizens in a quite significant area, territory, are currently located in Russian archives. As the professor sees the possibility of constructive Okay, I'm gonna stress this. The development of some kind of archival collaboration, so that these white spots of our common history simply explain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u101	This is a very good question, and it is difficult to give a clear answer. Russia's policy towards the history of Poland or the policy of Polish historians to establish cooperation with Russian researchers is not conducive to conducting research. Russians close archives to Polish historians. There was a short time when you could actually go to Moscow, place an order, get materials, of course not all, probably selected, but it was still possible and Polish researchers used it. For some time now, this situation has changed dramatically, the archives have been closed. Even if someone makes it to Russia, to the Russian Federation, to Moscow, to St. Petersburg or to other cities where there are archives... If someone has previously used these documents, some specific research teams, they can't even reach it at the moment. So they were even banned in the case of Polish researchers. If someone can use it, it's really some residual material, it's not the material we'd think of. An important thing is, for example. the scale of the Sovietization of Poland after 1944. We are talking about the eastern lands of the Second Republic of Poland. Or after 1945, when we move west. Polish historian will not receive any documents on this subject. Practically, the case concerns and deportations to the east, and NKVD camps founded on Polish lands, and the scale of the crimes committed by the Soviets on Polish lands, and provocation actions aimed at deciphering the structures of the second conspiracy. I suspect that this documentation will not be available tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next month, also in a few years. Practically speaking, there are such difficult topics in Polish-Russian relations, to which Polish historians will not be able to see for a long time. I do not know, perhaps in the event of a change of power in Russia this situation would also change, but it is difficult to expect such an event. In my opinion, these topics I was talking about are white spots at the moment when it comes to research of Polish historians, and they will certainly remain unexplored for some time. Not because of the dislike of our historians, because they are willing, but because of the lack of access to documentation. If we were to compare access to documents guaranteed by Polish archives with access to documents guaranteed by Russian archives, these proportions would be, I think, at a level, let's say, 100%. up to 10% , actually in kidnappings of up to 10%. So that, as I think, it looks like it right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u102	Thank you very much. The senator wants to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u103	In view of what you said, I have this question: shouldn't the Institute of National Remembrance have an impact on the state administration due to the extension of its activities? There was a dialogue group with Russia... [[Candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: Yes.]] I believe Minister Rotfeld was in it, too. At the moment, she's kind of frozen because of the political situation. Shouldn't this be one channel when it comes to accessing, on such constructive principles, not selected... Because the value of these tests would be zero. And second question. Does the professor see any possibility of cooperation with institutions, such as, I'd say, para-scientific, independent of the Russian government... [[Candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: I understand. Yes.]] ...e.g. with a group of memorials that, I'd say, is inclined... Many valuable initiatives have been taken in this respect. Wouldn't that be a way to expand our knowledge? At least to some extent ? about this difficult time of our history?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u104	I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u105	As far as the first question is concerned, the Polish-Russian Difficulty Group was indeed a good idea, because thanks to joint meetings and discussions, there were some publications, publications prepared by Polish and Russian historians. I just want to draw your attention to something. In Polish-language publications, the texts of Russian researchers looked very different from those published later in the Russian language version. In the Polish version some things were presented from the point of view of our relations in a very mild form, while for the Russian reader they looked completely different. It was Russian historiography from years, let's say... well, I don't want to say that the 50's were very different, as Polish historians who participated in this project paid attention to; the reviewers also wrote about it. But such a team is absolutely right to be and I think that this may be a way to solve the problem of limited access of Polish historians to the sources of Russian proverenity. Although it probably won't make it possible to get complete access. Well, we're sure of that. But the idea is worthwhile. As far as the Memorial Group is concerned, this is indeed a very valuable idea, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such contacts have been maintained for a long time. I just want to bring up the problem of Katyn crime and the merit of the Memorial to explain the problem. Of course, I do not want to say that it is necessary to explain the circumstances of Katyn Crime and to indicate who is a criminal in this case, because we have no doubt about this for a long time, and Russia has confirmed it too. But there are many different thematic themes which, without the knowledge of Russian historians, are impossible to determine in Poland. I can give you an example of Nikita Pietrow's last book on Katyn criminals. This is the identification by name, with the whole resume, everyone, from chauffeur to shooter... Polish historian, no matter what he did, will not find out. Nikita Pietrow, on the other hand, because he is Russian, at some point he had the opportunity to access that documentation and could establish such a thing beyond any doubt. My point is that through this kind of cooperation it would be possible to explain many other things that we have not yet understood. And this is precisely an idea, such an idea can bring concrete benefits not only for Polish readers, but also for Polish researchers. And Memorial is the best example in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u106	Thank you very much, Professor. [[Yet...]] I didn't see it. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Let me remind you that we are asking questions that last no more than a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u107	I have three questions. I'm gonna ask them separately, and maybe we can do one thing... The first question concerns Belarus. At the moment there is a certain warming of relations between Belarus and the West, between Poland and Belarus. Does this somehow translate into your contacts and the possibilities of an archival query in Belarus? If not, I would suggest keeping an eye on it. Two questions about archival resources. In the MMA there was a very extensive and accurate file of repatriates, containing photographs, from 1956, probably also from earlier periods. I saw it from 1956. Do you have that record, and do you think it should be taken over? Another question. The Hyacinth Collection, which was at the Police Headquarters, was so-called. The collection is closed. Where is he right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u108	I'll start with the third question. I must confess, Mr. Marshal, that I have no knowledge of the fate of this collection. Nor does this subject fit in the orbit of my scientific interests, which is why I have never followed her, which is why I find it difficult to say anything about it. As far as the second question is concerned, there is a special team at the Institute of National Remembrance who conducts a record of victims of the war who were victims of Soviet repression. It is the result of the cooperation of the Institute of National Remembrance with the Centre of Karta. The Institute of National Remembrance, as far as I'm concerned, bought all the documentation about it from the Centre. He set up a separate team of researchers at an institute that dealt exclusively with this issue. And the team collects documentation about it. I can't tell you if what you're asking me is a 1956 repatriate file that's part of the documentation that this team is working on. I don't think so. I don't recall a single meeting of the Board of the Institute of National Remembrance... but I also watch documents sometimes. I do not recall that such documents would enter the resources of the Institute of National Remembrance. Perhaps they still rest in archives outside the Institute of National Remembrance. As far as Polish-Belarusian relations are concerned, this is an important issue. You probably associate this relationship with the Augustow manhunt as well. Many traces indicate that the victims of the Augustow manhunt have already been buried outside Poland and it is very likely that this happened in the area of Belarus. The warming of Polish-Belarusian relations thus gives in some sense hope that perhaps the Institute of National Remembrance will be able to carry out surveys of exhumations in places that were initially indicated as burial sites of Poles murdered in July 1945, those Poles who were murdered in the Augustów raid. Only that it is necessary to ask whether the Belarusian authorities will indeed go to this cooperation to the extent necessary to agree to carry out such research. The research on the Augustow manhunt was very dynamic at some point, and it was established, with the help of the memorial that was already mentioned today, that many new facts, also thanks to Nikita Pietrów's help. At some point, however, this cooperation ceased and Poles' requests for legal assistance were ignored by Russia in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u109	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Professor. [[Candidate for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish National Tadeusz Wolsz: Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the scenario for the next few minutes is as follows. I'm declaring a 10-minute break right now. After this break, we will proceed with the vote on the election of the members of the IPN. It's gonna be a secret election. We will vote directly after them on the National Media Council Act. Then there will be an adjournment until Wednesday, so you agreed with Marshal Karczewski by 11.00 a.m. [[Yeah, yeah, we voted by Wednesday, 11:00 p.m.]] [[Voices from the room: Committees still... committee meetings...]] Yeah, yeah, committee meetings will be on schedule. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 31 to 13 minutes 41]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u110	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators to take their seats, the senators of the secretaries and the non-secretaries. Dear Senators, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, today, after the vote on the appointment of members of the College of National Remembrance Institute, the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals will be held a vote on the Act on the National Media Council. After that vote, the session will be adjourned until 29 June, until 11 a.m. on Wednesday. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the appointment of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. We proceed with a secret vote on the appointment of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter in a secret ballot by a simple majority of votes... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen of the Senators! Don't talk anymore. I'm sorry. ...a simple majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the following secretaries: Senator Mark Pęk, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator George Wcisla. High Izbo, a resolution on the appointment of members of the Senate College, is taken by a simple majority by a simple majority of votes. This means that when calculating votes for the candidate concerned, only votes for or against shall be taken into account, while abstentions shall be taken into account only for the calculation of the quorum. The composition of the college will be appointed by the candidate who will receive more votes than the votes against. Let me remind you that the senator can support up to two candidates. A card with the name of each candidate should be marked with one The card will be considered void if more than two candidates are supported, bet at the candidate's name more than one Ladies and gentlemen, the senator voting should take a specific decision for each of the candidates submitted. I would like to remind you that only two candidates can vote for this vote. Are there any questions about your vote? There isn't. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. Now I ask the senators of the secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators. It's about filling out these cards. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[Senator Klein has a question.]] Now... I was asking... [[Question about the vote.]] Yeah, I'm listening. [[It's about the vote.]] Oh, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u111	I volunteered all the time... Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but there's a plus and a minus on the voting card in front of the people. Does that mean that if we're behind someone... If we are against this, do we put up a stamp that indicates opposition, or are we just putting up a positive sign? I'm sorry about that, but this... do we have to fill out every column?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u112	Not every column, just refer to each candidate For each candidate, indicate either for or against or abstain. [[So to each of the candidates...]] [[Okay, thank you very much.]] [[That's four for.]] [[It's all clear.]] Each of us has four crosses to put up. Four crosses we have to put up. And these crosses can't be in the same line. Two crosses can't be in one line either. Or three crosses. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Did all the senators receive the ballots? I didn't get it. Oh, I got it, thank you. We're filling out the cards. And now I ask Senator Alexander Swede to read the names of the senators in turn, and I ask the senators to insert their names into the ballot box filled with secret ballots after reading them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u113	List of senators to vote secretly. The vote will be: Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Michał Ambrozik, Anna Maria Anders, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Jerzy Bielan, Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, Przemysław Jan Błaszczyk, Alexander Tomasz Bobko, Ryszard Wiesław Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Stefan Borowski, Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Felix Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Kazimierz Gawel, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Józef Golba, Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, Thomas Paweł Grodzki, Maciej Tomasz Grubski, Jan Vincenty Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Mariusz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Sophia Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Viktor Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, Maciej Łuczak, Józef Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Jerzy Wczyła, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Żaryn. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u114	Have all the senators voted? Yes. Thank you very much. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. Fifteen minutes off. Okay, so I'm running the recess until 2:11 p.m. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Until 2:05 p.m., right? Until 2:05 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 51 to 14 minutes 03]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm prolonging my recess until... sorry, oh, I'm going back... until 2:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 03 to 14 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the appointment of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. I would like to inform you that the senators of the secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a protocol for a secret vote. I'm declaring the results. Allow me to read the minutes of the secret vote of 24 June 2016 on the appointment of the members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Jerzy Wcisła, state that the secret vote on the appointment of members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals cast 77 votes, valid 77 votes. [[Room voices: Bravo, bravo!]] [[No one's wrong?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] By choice... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Now the results, ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. The election of Antoni Kazimierz Dudek was voted against by 27 senators, against 44 and with 6 abstentions. Andrzej Roman Kołodziej voted against 25 senators, against 46, with 6 abstentions. The election of Wojciech Polak was voted against by 50 senators, against 21, with 6 abstentions. 51 senators voted in favour of Tadeusz Wojciech Wolsza's election against In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of the members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The Senate appointed the College of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish National Mr Wojciech Polak and Mr Tadeusz Wojciech Wolsza. Congratulations, gentlemen. Gentlemen, please approach the presidential table. I would like to present a resolution on the appointment. [[Applause]] Gentlemen of the Members, I congratulate you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, gentlemen. [[Kaziu caught the picture.]] [[Kaziu is the best background.]] Thank you very much. We return to the first item of the agenda, the National Media Council Act. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 216 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u115	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the report of the committee meeting. The Commission accepted a motion to reject the law. There were five votes against and four against rejection. The committee therefore recommends rejecting this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? I would remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. In addition, the committee's rapporteurs were Senator Jan Maria Jackowski The Committee on Culture and Media; and Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, the minority of the Committee on Culture and Media. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to speak? Mr. Senator? You're welcome. [[But so hard, Jackie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the committee, I would of course recommend that the House adopt this law without amendments. At the same time, I would like to say that there was a strange practice at the committee meeting, because it was known that I had submitted a proposal. That your Marshal Koc and Marshal Czelej were at the meeting of the Convention at that time and only for this reason, because the representatives of the Civic Platform knew this very well, it is in the protocol, I informed about it, I did not want to agree to a 15-minute delay in the start of the meeting of the committee and this result of the vote is only this and not another... [[Disgraceful!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And how do you know what the outcome of the vote would be?]] I recommend the adoption of this law without amendment. [[The outcome of the vote is unknown.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u118	Thank you very much. The senator still wants to speak. Yes? Is the senator on the list? There it is. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska is on the list. [[And I'm sorry, I don't have to...]] [[You have to, you have to.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform you that I have tabled amendments proposed by our Legislative Office and they are in this group of amendments bearing my name. These are the amendments tabled by me, but proposed by our Legislative Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u120	Thank you, Senator. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator! I follow the rules. The rules I followed in the Seym for so many years are quite similar. I knew about this information, but the Senate still has a few Members who could be, if they wanted to have a majority... [[Senators.]] [[Oh, no, Lord...]] Senators. That's why ours wasn't there either. Therefore, please do not pay any more attention to me this way, because we work so well together, so why create problems? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, in what mode? I'm asking because you're not on the list of senators who can still speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u123	I would like to say that the report by Senator Fedorovich is so unclear to me that the senator has made a motion to reject the bill without amendment. There's no way in the rules of procedure to reject a bill without amendments, so I'm treating it as an excess of words or some kind of mistake. [[It's a lapsus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u124	It's like, Mr. Senator, like this... [[It's about rejection.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u125	It was a motion to reject the bill. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u126	I see. [[But there's a difference.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we may proceed to the vote. Good. Then we shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law, followed by a vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous 2 proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 22 votes against, 55 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we proceed to vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 23 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the National Media Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a recess. I'm gonna ask you to present an announcement, and then I'm gonna announce a break.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u127	High Senate! The joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration for the purpose of considering the Law on amending the Education System and certain other laws, Senate Printing No 215, will be held today immediately after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-06-24-senat-21-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. I declare a recess until Wednesday, June 29th, until 11:00 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 14 minutes 24]]
