ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u1	Resume session. I ask Members to take their seats. I would like to call on Mr Daniel Milewski, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Mr Kubov and Mr Sylvester Tulayev to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Daniel Milewski and Mr Łukasz Schreiber. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Daniel Milewski and Sylvester Tulaev. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities included in the Amber Gold Group - 15 minutes after the end of the vote, ca. h. 9.30 a.m., - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Public Finance - hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Legal notice - hour. 11, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 2.30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 15, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 16, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 4:30 p.m., [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 17, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 18, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 18, - Health-- hour. 18. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] At the same time, the following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: investigating irregularities in reprivatisation - hour 8:30, - The Parliamentary Group of the child's well-being as the highest objective - hour. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Women's Group - at 10 p.m. 16, - Parliamentary Group for: regulation of the pharmaceutical market - h. 16, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: St. John Paul II's Heritages - 3 p.m. 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization of Hospitals and Medical Centres - hour 18, - Opole Parliamentary Team - hour 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u3	Thank you, sir. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Construction Contract or Services. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The European Union Commission has submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the budget law for 2016. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. Do I hear an objection? I don't hear any objections. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on the draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. The report shall be published in print No 942. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the National Tax Administration, - Provisions introducing the National Tax Administration Act. The reports shall be printed in 925 and 926 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the joint discussion on these items of the agenda he listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau submitted a draft Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The project is print number 946. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of the project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Members have made their formal submissions. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a conference was to be held in the Seym devoted to the pursuit of the autonomy of Poles in Vilnius at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s. Unfortunately, the Sejm law firm banned this conference under some bullshit pretext. [[Right.]] The conference was organized by a border foundation. Experts were to comment on it, evaluating both what was happening in Lithuania at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, as well as the actions of the Polish government and among others. Infamous Minister Skubiszewski in the early 1990s. It is not only that this conference has been banned, but members of the national-democratic team are not allowed to introduce visitors to the Sejm today. Such oral instructions were given to the staff of the Seym Service. And that's a scandal. That's why I'm asking for a break and an explanation by your marshal. It is scandalous that in the Sejm we cannot debate Poles' rights in Lithuania, that we cannot discuss freely what concerns our minority in Vilnius. It seems that this House is still circling and repenting the spirit of this formulation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the beginning of the 1990s that Poles in Lithuania must be laid on the altar of good relations between the Republic of Lithuania and the Polish government. This is an outrage. This is an outrage and I demand an explanation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u5	This issue has been clarified, but it is not the subject of the agenda, so that I cannot take it as a formal conclusion, because I remind you that Article. Paragraph 184. 2. The formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the sitting. Ask the head of the Sejm's office to explain. Besides, these explanations were made yesterday. Mr Paweł Kukiz, President of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a request for a break which we will devote to discussing the resolution of the Polish Sejm Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine. Yesterday at an hour. 14 this draft resolution was introduced by Marshal Terletki to the meeting of the committee, which was joined by the Commission: the European Union and Foreign Affairs. She is for me, this resolution, in several points, in several places unacceptable. I also have the question: Who made this text with the Ukrainians? Who wrote this text on the Ukrainian side? Why, what's the hurry? Why was this resolution thrown so suddenly? Another question. Here we have, for example.: We remember the fight between the Polish and Ukrainian forces of the anti-communist opposition, which gave moral grounds for restoring the independence of our countries. Who are you referring to here: SS Galizien or Bandera, Shuchevych or Diachenka? [[Applause]] Because these anti-communist entities are not defined. Such a policy will soon lead us to send the president to consider the SS Galizien as a heroic liberation army of self-centered Ukraine. We can't agree on that. And one last thing. I have a favor to ask. Don't call my MPs a Russian agent... [[More history.]] ...because I'm willing to give up immunity to settle this case man-to-man. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u7	High Sejm, this issue was discussed at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention, and because there is no agreement that this is a proposal... [[It is up to the Members to get to know each other first and foremost.]] There is neither consensus nor unanimity on the procedure, and therefore the proposal of the joint Commission: the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the Bureau of the Sejm, is proposed to put on the agenda as the first reading of the draft resolution. Did Madam President Isabella Kloc have the opposite vote? No? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No, it's okay. So that I see no need for us to announce a break, because the question, once again, was discussed at the Seniors' Convention and the Sejm Bureau. There is a proposal to introduce this draft resolution, which was discussed, and the discussion on it was held yesterday, on the agenda today and we will vote on it. We therefore proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following item: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine, print No. 946, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 379 voted against - 44, 8 Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2017. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. I suggest that the time for questioning is 1 minute. Yes? [[One and a half minutes.]] One and a half minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister of Finance, presented the 2017 budget to the High House. What's more, today on TVN24 he said he was in love with this budget. Unfortunately, it will be unhappy love, because the Minister planned, despite good economic prosperity, in principle, a maximum deficit and overestimated revenue. That is why a few explanations should be given to the House. Firstly, please explain to us the miraculous multiplication of tax revenues between the Szalamacha budget and Morawiecki's budget by almost PLN 3 million. [[Applause]] Secondly, please tell me how this is possible. Prime Minister Szydło suspends trade tax until 2018 and Minister Morawiecki in the 2017 budget provides for PLN 1 billion of revenue from this tax. [[Applause]] And thirdly, perhaps the most important thing, because the Minister of Finance knows more than the average mortal, does Prime Minister Morawiecki know about the impending economic crisis? Because if not, let him explain to Poles why PiS raises VAT for 2017? In the election campaign, you kept your mouth shut about it, you said you were going to lower it, so there must be some extraordinary circumstances that you're taking on this desperate step. [[But how does he pick it up?]] If I don't get an answer from the Minister of Finance right now, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a written reply. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Room: To Rostowski.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u9	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The next year's budget is a concert of pious wishes. You have excessive tax revenues there, which grow more than twice as fast as GDP, you have over-GDP, which has been systematically adjusted under your governments for a year now, and you have a wishful thinking rate of investment growth, which, as far as your governments are concerned, is holding back, and you have a wishful inflation. All of this will make you unable to fit in the deficit you planned to balance at the edge of the excessive deficit procedure. In the election campaign, you said that... [[Give us our 10%.]] ...money lies on the street that there is money on the street - PLN 50 billion for sealing the tax system, mainly VAT. And after a year you fired the Minister of Finance because sealing the tax system turned out to be too difficult for you because he couldn't get the money out of the pockets of Poles so they wouldn't notice. But this morning the Prime Minister explained to us where you're going to take more money from your promises, which you don't have and which you can't find in that big can of seal. Today we learned that you will find this money in the pockets of Polish taxpayers. And my question is, when you tell the Poles that just the money [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't you have it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u11	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. Quiet. No, you're an MP. No, no, take your time. I mean, hurry up, just... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Sir... Ministers? I would like to ask you a question about the budget. Why are there no proposals in the 2017 draft budget for significant cuts in the administration, significant reforms aimed at reducing the fragmented, inherited bureaucracy of the Civic Platform and the PSL, which eats, eats and wastes most of the money taken from honest-working taxpayers? And you got a signal in the election that the taxpayers disagree, very clearly they don't agree to waste their money. You've had a year, and you haven't actually taken the trouble to cut red tape, and the money saved by it either for tax reduction or for at least the development of the country. And second question: Why do not you take up the fundamental problem that is facing Polish finances, i.e. comprehensive reform of the social security system? We're putting more and more into this system. The demographic collapse makes the CSO increasingly inefficient, and the state is not making this most important decision. Thanks to this it is the budget of the continuation, not the budget of the change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u13	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You're afraid of this budget because it's a state budget that's not a theoretical state. [[You should be afraid of him.]] And it hurts so much. [[Applause]] This is the budget of the honorable Polish state. This is the budget for the Polish people. [[Oh!]] This is the budget for Polish mothers and Polish families. This is a good budget. [[Joy in the Chamber]] for Polish infrastructure. [[Applause]] [[A lie, a lie, a lie!]] Look out! What's not in the budget? There aren't any of those stupid things that were in your budgets. Let me remind you. [[Yes, sir.]] May I have your attention, please? Let me remind you. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] ...in your budgets, what was it? [[Privatization of forests.]] Creative accounting. You weren't afraid to break even the demographic reserve. You blew up the budget. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You've been building this budget as you wish. And I'll remind you. [[What are you talking about?]] In your day, the cost of public administration increased by PLN 10 billion. You don't remember that anymore? 10 billion PLN. [[How are you guys?]] [[Did they fall?]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You wanted to build a Polish nuclear power plant system. We paid all PLN 182 million for this. [[We'll count you in.]] Two NGOs said this: in 2008 and 2015 under the Civic Platform, 450 billion PLN were lost. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] Ladies and gentlemen, look back at your achievements. You were building a great warship called Silesia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] you built the world's most expensive motorboat for 1 billion PLN. [[Oh, dear.]] [[You're just Black Hawk.]] These are examples of your work. Today you're criticizing the government. My answer is simple...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u15	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u16	...vanitas vanitatum et omnia vanitas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[There's no answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u17	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] This is the budget of winding up local Poland. And I remember, Prime Minister, how many words came out of your mouth during the campaign in various places, in this local Poland, which you very much liked to visit in the campaign, about the fact that you would counter the collapse of local Poland. This is the first budget, and we have the rolling of local Poland to the second power. [[See you later, Subcarpathian.]] A reduction of 200 million for the road fund, for the construction of local roads, nothing to support health care at the district level, unless, as in some counties, you will be giving these money to your elders from the reserve, because such a thing is happening. You don't say anything in this budget about returning 1.5 billion to local governments for the compensation of education subsidies. It's also a blow to self-government. [[In gold.]] Mr Rzońc, the previous speaker, spoke here about caring for children, about parents, about the roads. These children, these parents, these roads are in local Poland. Will you leave Poland as it is written in this draft budget without any help? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[How's John Bury?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u19	Please. Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, there is as usual a lot of... It's kind of a debate that I would christen with the slogan: four legs good, two legs bad. But let's skip... The budget is for you, not for the PiS party, not for the Platform party. That's why I'm gonna ask you a question that I asked the Prime Minister a year ago. We inherited from the Polish People's Republic the entire faulty structure of the state. We tear down the Communist monuments, we change the names of the streets, but we have the structure of the state that the Polish People's Republic has given us. Why is it a Polish country... What does he do, Prime Minister, e.g. The Western Institute of Budget Management Piast or other such structures? Why do we need the Central Sports Centre? Why do we need a Polish Horse Racing Club? I asked for an audit of the state structure and not just a change of office, because, unfortunately, in this way, the accusations that we have not made that we are not looking for savings in our business, in our structure, but we are simply raising more debt are right. How can I vote in favour of a budget that is once again a budget with a huge deficit? Prime Minister, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you wouldn't lend a loan to a company that's the 27th year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] it would show a budget deficit. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u21	There you go. As I have already stated, a proposal was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the draft budget law for 2017 at first reading, contained in print No 881, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. Two Members abstained in voting 199 against - 231. The Sejm's motion is denied. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2017, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 4 November 2016 and the Public Finance Commission shall adopt the report by 2 December 2016. We return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2017. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. You have come forward with questions. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Prime Minister! I'd like the Prime Minister to tell you why you've been looking so hard for savings. In the Around Budget Act, the state proposes savings for the amount of PLN 2 billion, including among others. in terms of youth employment. In the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions, you are proposing savings on the Youth Work Programme, but also on the support of entrepreneurs who employ people to prepare them for work. It's a savings of PLN 0.5 million. And that's why it shows how hard you're looking for that money. I would like you to answer this question, because this is always the question in the Committee on Public Finance and if not, please state that Mrs Rafalska will answer this question. What else do you propose in the Budget Act? 23 percent VAT is about PLN 8 billion drawn out of Poles' pockets, the lack of an increase in the amount of free in 2017 is 24 billion drawn out of taxpayers' pockets. These are only increases for teachers - approx. 20 PLN. Is that what you're trying to cover up a failed education reform? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You offer apartments for young people, apartment+. Do you want to make it as much as 3 million apartments in your term of office in 2005 and 2007?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u23	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u24	We'll be against this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u25	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, She was very right to ask about savings, because this budget is not a development budget, it is a survival budget, and you know it. Why do you have to look for these savings? [[Not everyone can have a Pihowicz.]] We also know very well in this Chamber that the Law and Justice introduced a very expensive social programme this year, without having any money for it. You put in a program with no money on it, and yet you haven't raised the money to lie in the streets I was just talking about, and you're already bringing in the next one. Today we pay 80 billion PLN from the state budget to pensions, but in your opinion it is not enough to kill the ZUS and make it a complete bankrupt and enlarge this hole. [[How's the treasurer?]] So what do you have to do? You will have to raise taxes, you already know that today, and camouflage in the form of a uniform tax will do you no good, because Poles can count and calculate that it is there for the next year that you will hide the huge costs that will hit them in their pockets. And the question is, is that what you're doing is this great economic patriotism that you're so often talking about, that at the same time you're adding to foreign factories that are being built in Poland, living cash, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And do you impose additional taxes on Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In this draft law of the gmerata as in previous years, in other laws. Some things you freeze, some things you pick up, some things you move as if in time, among others. Six years in a row, you're freezing an occupational welfare fund. Four years ago... [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: But we haven't ruled for a year.]] Minister, please calm down. It's been frozen by the Civic Platform and the PSL for four years, and you're already freezing this fund for the second time. Let me just remind you that the funds from the Social Fund are allocated to the lowest-income workers. So that you are talking about pro-family policy, pro-social policy, and really you should ask yourself what is the difference between the Civic Platform and the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[But we run the year.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u29	There you go. The question is rhetorical, sir, so that there is no need to answer. Mr Jacek Sasin, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u30	Thank you for your sighs of appreciation. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Before I ask a question, I must say that it is not possible to listen to the hypocrisy that was taking place from the speech of President Skowronska, when she regretted 23 percent VAT and the low tax-free amount, after eight years of her party's governments... [[Bravo!]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] ...when it was this party that the Civic Platform increased VAT to 23% and froze the tax-free amount. [[Yes, sir!]] [[What are you guys doing?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! Now the question is: Is it true that in this budget, the first budget of the Government of Law and Justice, it was possible to save, find 40 billion PLN for family policy, of which 23.5 billion for the 500+ programme? [[It was 39 billion.]] Is it true that in this budget there is 1 billion PLN for housing, including 200 million for the new housing+ programme? Is it true that in this budget there is more than PLN 500 million for free medicines for seniors, that there is money for raises for nurses and uniformed services, that there is PLN 1.5 billion for the Police modernisation programme, so important in the face of expectations about the security of all citizens? And that all of this has been included in this budget, even though the budget deficit isn't bigger, as you say, but it's smaller than the deficits you proposed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ... [[Yes, sir.]] ...because the government is running away from creative accounting in this budget, not saving donations as loans just to artificially reduce deficits, just like you did? I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u31	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches were not questions in question, but a continuation of the debate on the draft budget, which lasted half a day yesterday, which is why I apologise to Mrs Skowronska very much. [[But no, I've been replaced...]] You've been replaced, but thank you kindly. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: Vote!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 917 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. There were 198 Members voted against - 231 and three Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. I'm in charge of... [[May I, Mr. Marshal, make a formal conclusion?]] I'm sorry. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. I'm ordering a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 50 hrs. 9 min 54]] Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you to take your seats so that we can begin the next part of the session, and that countries that have other responsibilities, please leave the room calmly. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. They will be the first to ask questions by Wojciech Skurkiewicz and Barbara Bartus, the Law and Justice Club, on improving the transport accessibility of southern Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Jerzy Szmit will answer. I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u32	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! National road number 7 is one of the main communication arteries in our country. For many years she was such a communication core in our country. Unfortunately, it turns out that this road from Warsaw to the south of the country on many sections is unmodernized, there are many communication problems in this area. And that is why there is our question to the Minister about these actions which are currently being carried out, investment activities on the national road No 7 and plans for the coming years. The information that reaches us shows that preparations are already being made for the award of tenders, among others. for the modernization of the national road No 7 on the section Warsaw - Grójec. Part of this road is to follow a new trail. But there is also worrying information about the modernization of the national seven further, in the south of the country, among others. in the area whether it is the Świętokrzyskie Voivodship, whether it is the Lesser Poland Voivodship, especially towards the southern border of the country. Hence our questions, Minister. What action is being taken by the Law and Justice Government to modernise the national seven in time or at the fastest possible pace? What are the plans for the coming months and years for the modernisation of national road No 7? What is the estimated cost of these activities? And when can we expect that the national road no 7 Warsaw - Radom - Kielce - Kraków will be a fully cross-country express road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u33	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Mrs. Member! Indeed, the S7 expressway is one of the most important communication arteries in Poland and its modernization works are actually carried out today from the north to the south, as this artery runs across the country. Let me start with information about Małopolska voivodship, then I will go to Świętokrzyskie and to the north towards Warsaw, and if time permits, then also further north from Warsaw. We start with the Małopolska voivodship. In its territory, the first section of the express road S7 is the border section of the voivodship - Kraków with a length of 55 km. Due to its length it was divided into three implementation sections: the border of the voivodship - Szczepanowice with a length of 23 km, Szczepanowice - a 14 km Widom node, a Widom node - the Igołomska node with a length of 18 km. In September 2015, tendering procedures were announced for the selection of contractors of these tasks. The conclusion of contracts is planned for mid-2017, so soon, and the completion of their implementation and their entry into service - in April 2021, i.e. from the border of the Lesser Poland Voivodeship to Kraków. Then the S7 route will reach the eastern ring road of Krakow. The task is divided into the following sections. Kraków knot Christa Botew and Igołomska knot, part of the eastern ring road of Krakow, with a length of 4 km, almost 5 km is currently at the stage of implementation by the contractor, so already... The contract amount is close to PLN 565 million. According to the agreed timetable, completion of implementation is July 2017. This episode is the first part of the eastern ring road of Krakow. The second part between the Bieżanów junctions and Christa Botew with a length of 2.7 km is already realized. To the south of Krakow there is a section of Lubień - Rabka-Zdrój with a length of 16 km. The section was divided into three sections: Lubień - Repair, Repair - Komielna Biała, Komielna Biała - Rabka-Zdrój, together with the construction of a new section of the national road No. 47 of the class GP on the section Rabka-Zdrój - Chabówka with a length of 6 km. All these sections are currently at the stage of implementation by contractors selected during the tendering procedures. The deadline for the first episode, Lubień - Repair, is October 2018. Second Episode, Repair - Skomielna Biała, is December 2020. In this section, because this is still important, two tunnels will be built de facto, because this was the decision, about the length of approx. 3 km with emergency passage between chambers, with two portals and full infrastructure and technical equipment. The construction of a two-chamber tunnel means in practice the construction of two parallel underground objects. The third episode is performed by the company... But it's less important. In this episode Rabka-Zdrój - Chabówka the deadline for completion of works is July 2018. The contract totals PLN 615 million. Maybe a few more words, because the time is actually running out for the Świętokrzyskie voivodship. Here, too, there are sections which are either in tender proceedings, or it is already ongoing, their implementation. As far as problems are concerned, there is a problem in Skarżysko-Kamienna. There are environmental problems, there are the protests of the association of the Workspace for All Beings. Discussions are ongoing, there is ongoing action to ensure that this problem, which results from the protests made by this association, is resolved and that work in Skarżysko-Kamienna is continued so that implementation can be carried out. North, Mazowieckie Voivodeship... This may be to the south of Warsaw: Radom's bypass was built, from Radom to the border of the voivodship 22 km long - this task is also in the implementation phase, putting this section into service is planned in May 2017, so next year. And then, going north, we have a section of Warsaw - the bypass of Grójca - the conclusion of contracts is planned for April 2017, the completion of the implementation, and this is the essence, it is 2020. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u35	I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to ask for an additional question. Stay, Minister, there's no point in leaving.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u36	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, I'll talk about my district. I'll start by thanking you. I am glad that the episode in my district, which is the episode of Lubień - Rabka, is being implemented. I had the pleasure of signing a contract in June covering the next episode. I know how difficult this is, but I also know that this is a very important episode, because when you talk about the road to Zakopane, there are usually questions about how much you stand in a burial site. So it's very, very important. But there's also no way to ask about the judge and my Gorlice. Gorillas are completely off communication. The S7 expressway is later to be connected to others, to be continued by the S19. But it all goes so far that Gorlice stayed inside and didn't have a quick connection. Nothing Gorlicka Zone [[♪ The bell ♪]] Economic activity, nothing to take any action to restore industry in Gorlice, if there are no roads. Is there any hope for Gorlice? Maybe those quick roads... Could there be a chance that this Via Carpatia, which you're so desperately trying to get from Marshal Kuchciński, would even go near Gorlice, Biecz, which is between Gorlice and Jasł? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u37	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Maybe I'll start by answering some questions about the judge, so-called. It's all right. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay, it's okay. Of course it is. also one of the very important communication arteries for Małopolska. And by examining today's national road construction programme for the years 2014-2021, we are thinking about this - I am talking about work within the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction - how to significantly and seriously improve the quality of this road and perhaps even build it in a new shape. This is something that we think requires deep analysis. Well, I must remind you of the situation in which we are in, namely the road construction programme has been so distributed by our predecessors that we need nearly PLN 200 billion, and the financial limit has been provided at the level of PLN 107 billion. I'm actually saying this at every opportunity, but that's the state, that's the fact that we have to face. And when we make all the decisions to transfer some serious investment to the second stage or even put it into practice, we have to take that into account. The judge is one of those arteries that we absolutely consider to be those that should be carried out. Today, with Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, shortly after the examination of this point, we are going to Częstochowa to sign the decision to refer to the final section of the A1 motorway, which is crucial for Poland. I think this is really a great event, because the construction, completion of the A1 motorway so that it can serve everyone, from the ports of Gdańsk, Gdynia, to the south of Poland, as this main communication artery of Poland, was a great challenge and we are taking this challenge today, we are signing the decision to direct it to realization. I hope that we can make such decisions when it comes to other arteries, also about the decision-making process. On the other hand, with regard to the Gorlic ring road, Mrs Gorlic, we are aware that there are about 50 bypasses in the national road construction programme today. The Gorlic perimeter is also an important, important element here, and we take this into account. I find it difficult to make simple promises from the stands here that these decisions will be made today. Nevertheless, this is really very deeply analysed. And I thank you, Madam President, for reminding you of the matter, so that it is constantly orbiting our interests. I'm talking about the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u40	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. It will be asked by Mr Kurzepa and Mr Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, and it concerns the issue of higher vocational education in the military. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Defence, and the Undersecretary of State in this Ministry will answer Mr Wojciech Fałkowski. I would ask the Member to ask the basic question and then the Member to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u41	Thank you, Marshal. This is indeed a question for the Minister of Defence on the system of higher education, including professional education. Since there have been many changes in higher education in recent years, our concern goes in this direction to ask how these changes occurred in the vocational education system in the Ministry of Defence. And I would ask the Minister for information on this subject, as well as information on the condition of higher education in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u42	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question concerns one of the most important aspects of the functioning of the modern army and the entire national defence department. The training of officers and the training of managers or commanders in the army must be based on three main issues. The first issue is knowledge which must take into account the intellectual level, which must be based on the latest achievements of science and must be linked to the broad context of general knowledge. The second thing is a military craft. This is all that consists of the knowledge or skill of an officer or an officer, including rigor and discipline, specific military skills, everything that makes a candidate for this profession a true commander and leader in the army. And finally, the third thing that is essentially important is upbringing. Officer schools differ from civil schools, public schools, that in addition to the transfer of knowledge and training of specific skills, they must shape a patriotic and civic attitude. Military schools must not give up, unlike civilian schools, from universities, polytechnics and other higher schools, from shaping attitudes and raising these officers. At the moment, the military education system is undergoing rapid changes adapting universities to the requirements of the modern battlefield, the challenges facing the Polish state, and at the same time it needs to take clear account of new changes in the programme, teaching staff and how these schools are organised and financed. At the same time, these changes that are taking place at the moment, because schools do not have the right to stop functioning, to maintain continuity. Where necessary, this continuity is maintained to a large extent. Where there are necessary deeper changes, we make them in a quick and directly related mode for a given school. At the moment we have five officer schools: Military Technical Academy in Warsaw, Academy of War Art in Rembertów, Higher Officer School of Land Forces in Wrocław, Navy Academy in Gdynia and Orląt School in Dęblin training staff for the use of the Air Force. We really want every one of these schools to grow in the number of sick people who end up with officers. In the current year's year, the number of patients was increased by almost 50%, that's forty-two percent more than a year ago. This trend will also be maintained next year. At the same time, at the same time in a reasonable and very well-targeted manner, we reduce the number of civilian students. Civil students at military universities are needed, we don't want to give up on them at all. They bring a different way of looking, freedom of discussion, linking an officer's school with the entire civilian community, so that civilian students are not only welcome in military universities, but even needed. On the other hand, it has been so far that civilian students have dominated, both in terms of the way the school operates and in terms of a certain atmosphere, also when it comes to programs. In earlier officer schools have existed so far, and they still exist, because we cannot extinguish them immediately, various kinds of teachings that do not have anything in common with the army. These directions will be slowly, quietly extinguished. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that the reduction in the number of civilian students will be followed by a reduction in subsidies from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, and therefore the funding from the Ministry of National Defence must increase. And all of this, including investment changes -- it's about teaching rooms, dorms, cafeterias -- it's a process that's going on right now. We increase efficiency, adapt these schools to new conditions, increase subsidies from the Ministry of Defence and do so in a very consistent and very efficient way. I very much hope that during this academic year the process of modifying the activities and reconstruction of the original officer profile of these schools will be completed. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u44	Thank you very much. And now... Stay here, Minister, because you are responding from your seat. I ask the Member for this additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u45	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation so far, but I just wanted to ask you one more question. Given that modern battlefields, military doctrines, military technologies, equipment, as well as fronts of combat take on a very specialized character, such as cybersecurity, star wars or surveillance techniques, electronic intelligence or blocking in a cybernetic cloud, it seems that the skills and abilities of an individual soldier must be adequate for this. And my question is this: Where and in what mode will they be purchased? What are the plans of the Ministry of National Defence in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u46	I fully share the diagnosis that you made in your question. Indeed, the modern battlefield is completely different from what we not only knew, but we imagined a few years ago, let alone a further perspective. I would like to highlight three aspects of this issue. I'll start with a paradoxical one. First of all, it's hard to imagine all possible war scenarios at the moment, and that's the basic problem facing all the staffs, all the armies of the world. I'm talking about those who are somehow responsible and looking forward. So this is an answer that shows the complexity of the issue and in which it is also a confession not only to difficulties, but also to some helplessness of all military analysts. The second thing is that education must be integral, i.e. An officer may not be educated only in one profile, e.g. A tankman, a sailor or a commando. This must be training which takes into account the specificities of the various types of Armed Forces and the various methods of combat. And finally, the third thing. We want the latest war technologies and techniques to be dealt with in the first place by the Military Technical Academy and the structures that we want to establish during this academic year by the summer of next year. I am thinking here of a completely new structure, connected with the Ministry of Defence, which would think about these kinds of threats and order them, take this into account in industry and in research. I am also thinking about new profiles of the military technical academy. On the other hand, there is no way to meet those challenges that you have said in the framework of higher education. There's got to be calculus courses. In this regard, we are restoring the title of a qualified officer this year. And there will be requirements precisely related to the latest challenges of the modern battlefield, concerning new techniques, the latest, sophisticated technologies. We also want the institutions of the Ministry of Defence, which are responsible for the fields you mentioned, cybersecurity or modern individual soldier equipment in the field, for all this, to conduct these courses, so that they are conducted by specialized military institutions in the security of confidential tasks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u47	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now moving to the queue that was planned earlier, which is to begin with Mr Dariusz Piontkowski and Mr Krzysztof Kubow from the Law and Justice Club, who will ask a question about the state of implementation of the key ex ante conditions in waste management. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mr Sławomir Mazurek will answer. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski's first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland, preparing for the current budgetary perspective on the use of European Union funds, has signed a partnership agreement in which it has committed itself to adopting certain preconditions in various areas, including in the field of environmental protection. These conditions are among others. updating waste management plans, introducing standards in waste management, issuing regulations of the Council of Ministers on the introduction of environmental charges, a new law on waste electrical and electronic equipment, a package of regulations on municipal waste management, as well as educational activities. Only if these conditions are met will the use of resources for waste management be made possible. Let me remind you that this is a total of 1,300 million EUR, i.e. over 5 billion PLN. Of these, some 900 million are to be distributed at national level and some 400 million are to be distributed at regional level. There are indications that some of the pre-conditions, the ex ante conditions, are not yet fully met, that, therefore, we may be at risk of delaying the start of the use of EU funds. Clearly, the European Union also demands us to implement the waste hierarchy that is adopted in the European Union, so first prevention of waste, then re-use, recycling, recovery, and only at the end of storage restrictions. Therefore, all documents adopted at both government and regional levels should retain this hierarchy of municipal waste management. Therefore, Minister, are these actions taken quickly and decisively enough to make it possible, as [[♪ The bell ♪]] to make the most of the European Union's resources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u49	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Sławomir Mazurka to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this question, because it concerns to a large extent tools for effective performance of the task, a challenge called: a circular economy, which largely concerns waste management. As regards the implementation of key ex ante conditions, it is important to stress the importance, at this stage, of voivodship waste management plans and investment plans. This is now the most important duty that must be fulfilled. Marshals of voivodships are responsible for the implementation of this condition. Ladies and gentlemen, so far several plans have been received by the Ministry of the Environment. In fact, the plan was adopted only for Świętokrzyskie voivodship. The opinion and agreement with the Ministry of Environment are subject to six projects of updating voivodship plans - I will list them according to the state of progress: Pomorskie, Mazowieckie, Lubelskie, Warmińsko-Mazurskie, Zachodniopomorskie, Kujawsko-Pomorskie. The biggest concern is the regional waste management plan in Silesia. Here it has been declared that these works are not at such a stage that we can adopt these plans by the end of the year. And what is important is that these plans that will come in - because some of the voivodships declare that this will happen at the turn of October and November - will have to be very well prepared because any comments, any shortcomings in this area, however, require corrections. Voivodship waste management plans must be in line with the national waste management plan, with the whole package of guidelines, directions adopted in this plan. And very often we deal with such records, which make these plans not entirely compatible with it. Installations are oversized, the amount of installations for thermal transformation of waste is such that it significantly exceeds the capacity - and there is a 30% ceiling that we have to adopt for voivodship waste plans - there is incomplete information about planned construction and expansion of investments, often there is a lack of determination of the direction of action in preventing the formation of waste. A number of activities are mentioned here. Of course, it is not only about the regional waste management plans and the national waste management plan. Most of the time we heard about this when we were thinking about whether we were talking about matters related to the fulfilment of ex ante conditions. There are a number of other actions that you also mentioned in your speech. Most of them are realized. At present, the issue of introducing a regulation on selective collection of waste is also very strongly discussed in order to harmonise these standards. That's a condition too. ex ante, this also makes it necessary to unblock resources for waste management. It is already said that if this is not prepared, these funds will be relocated to other elements, to water management. This is particularly important here, in the municipal economy, in water management. But these challenges that we face in adapting to standards, in preparing very good installations that will also meet them - and this was the aim of updating the national waste management plan, so that it is also consistent with what is currently being discussed within the Commission in the field of the circular economy, so that we are able to reach these increasingly ambitious levels of non-waste generation, recycling, recovery and re-use preparation - are, unfortunately, major challenges for the years to come. And from this point on, I would like to appeal to all marshal offices, which have not yet sent us these plans. There were meetings at the Ministry all the time. There's a special team, a working group. Not only the Ministry of Environment helps, but also the chief environmental inspector, the national environmental fund, is involved. So here's a whole group of experts who help and know. It just can't be like it's happened before. Yesterday we received a letter from one office in which the Marshal called for an urgent return of the voivodship plan, because he already took note of the comments. He didn't take into account the comments. And that's the problem. We can, of course, move in writings, but we care about dialogue and openness, because waste does not have political colors. Waste management is a challenge that we need to address and we want to do this effectively. I believe it is through this cooperation that we will keep this term. But we have a moment today that the Silesian or other provinces have not made these plans yet. And let's remember that after we send out the comments, the seismic still has to accept it. There is a need for a very high quality of these plans and, at the same time, it is necessary for us to have time to examine them thoroughly. The more consistent this will be with the national waste management plan, the more precise it will be, according to what the requirements are - it is about these capacity, full information - the more effective it will make it possible for us to implement these plans as quickly as possible, to give an opinion in order to meet the condition, the most important ex ante condition at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u51	In that case, an additional question, Mr Krzysztof Kubów. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask about these regional waste management plans. What results, first, from differences in the fact that individual voivodships can mobilize and submit ready-made plans, and others, as in the case of the Śląskie voivodship, are not successful? Where are the problems, first of all. And what are the consequences of the possibility that some voivodship will not accept such a plan by the end of this year? In such a case, will only individual voivodships not be able to benefit from measures that will not accept such plans, or will it have consequences throughout the country? I would like to ask you one more thing about the advancement of educational activities, because this is one of the ex ante conditions. Is it on the finish line yet? How's it look? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u53	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. We must remember that the adoption of an investment plan, the approval of an investment plan is a condition for taking part in competitions. Surely some local authorities already see the need to enter competitions, implement projects. Perhaps this is the factor that causes these voivodships with greater activity to apply to these works. On our part - working group meetings, bilateral meetings - all these discussions, this dialogue was held. Well, we're running out of time. Some local authorities, which have not yet submitted it, announce this submission, only that it will be a spades which will cause that we also have limited capacity, even though outside the ministry we have included other institutions in this reconciliation process. I think that every Member from every region, from every voivodship knows best what the personal situation and powers in each voivodship are like, and they would answer best, because they know it best. For our part, we see that there is a need for support, hence our openness, therefore there are working meetings, consultations, but we must remember that this time is getting less and less. If as an official I read documents, then I see in them, it says that we have to accept these voivodship plans for the whole of Poland. So even if some voivodship thinks that it will do so next year, it will have a significant impact on the use of funds for the whole of Poland. In the area of educational activities currently, which are not yet fully available The activities we carry out are the promotion of composters, home composters, this form of waste transformation. Of course, and during the Pol-Eko fair, and during... Our predecessors have also carried out such campaigns, so it is a distributed process, because it is one of the elements of the Ministry of Environment's operation. In the area that we are now implementing, we are trying to speak about this in a clear and clear way and encourage environmental action, including on the basis of programming or cooperation with the Minister of Education, with which we work very closely to exploit the potential of formal education, and to carry out such activities as to provide full information on how to effectively carry out selective collections so as to deliver the quality of raw materials to this economy in a circular manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u55	That's it, Minister? Thank you very much. We move on to the questions that will be asked by Members of the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] Mr Andrzej Czerwiński and Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak will ask the first question you share, and the additional question will be asked by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock - on the causes and consequences of the mining disaster in the Brunata Coal Mine in Turów. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer. I ask Mr Andrzej Czerwinski for the first part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like you to provide us with some reliable information. Please remember that we do not want to heat up the atmosphere here to exaggerate certain things, but if we hear from everywhere that the disaster in Turów may be one of the most dangerous disasters in the history of brown coal in Poland, we all expect a fair assessment of the situation and what has happened there and what needs to be done to bring balance to our affected potential electricity system. We hear from other lignite mines that they're happy to be able to produce this energy. We also hear the understatement of what happened there. And we know that the excavator costs several hundred million zlotys, that this is really a responsible thing. Please consider our specific questions as a kind, kind assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u57	Minister! How does the disaster in Turów affect the security of the national electricity system? Does the Ministry of Energy recognise the danger of a lack of balance of energy mix due to the weakening of brown coal production in Poland? Construction catastrophy in Turów is accompanied by a catastrophic lack of political decision on the future of brown coal production also in other regions of Poland, e.g. PAK and the Occlusion case. What the Ministry of Energy will do to produce electricity from lignite was it a permanent element of the Polish energy mix? Minister, please answer the questions: Does the mine now conduct full extraction from all operating sites and does the supply of coal safeguard the continuity of the operation of the power plant with nominal power generation? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the financial consequences of the landfill slipping away and when will the damaged excavator resume work? Did the way the deposit was stored take into account the possibility of long-term precipitation and was the process controlled on an ongoing basis? Have there been changes in management positions and supervision in recent months to ensure coal extraction and job safety? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u58	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I share the fact that the subject of this landslide is important. Thank you for that question. In the first part, I will try to answer what state we have today, what knowledge we have, as accurately as I can, for every question, and then, as I have enough time, I would provide information that we have downloaded a little earlier, knowing about this incident, from the Higher Mining Authority. Thus, with regard to whether the mine leads to full extraction from all operating sites, whether the coal supply secures continuity of operation with nominal production capacity, from 13 October 2016, the supply of coal from the Turów mine to the Turów Power Plant is carried out at a level that allows the continuous operation of power blocks with a capacity of around 800 MW, which represents 80% the average load of the power plant from the period prior to the landslides event. In the event of the need to increase the capacity resulting from the needs of the national energy system, coal supply may be increased to an appropriate level. Since 1 November coal supplies will be carried out without restrictions and thus the work of production units in the Turów Power Plant will be able to proceed according to the plan and needs of the national energy system. As regards the financial consequences of the disposal, when the damaged excavator resumes its work, it made a write-off for the permanent impairment of the assets remaining on the company's balance sheet as at 30 September 2016 in relation to the event of PGE GiEK SA. This figure of the event amounts to 15.5 million. It is not yet possible to provide full data on the extent of the losses incurred and the consequences and consequences of the event. They are in the process of research, among others. The Higher Mining Authority also conducts supervision. None of the mine's multi-vascular excavators were damaged in the event. Does the way in which the deposit is stored take into account the possibility of long-term precipitation and has the process been controlled on an ongoing basis? Mining works related to the formation of the internal dump which has fallen have been carried out for decades on the basis of the design documentation in the mine, the traffic plan of the mining plant, in accordance with the requirements of the regulations in force in this field and the supervision of the mining office. In addition, external institutions and experts were commissioned to assess the effectiveness of the dump and its forming technology. The last expert study focused on the effectiveness of the dump, was developed by AGH experts in June 2016 and covers the years 2016 and 2018. It should be noted that both the current year and the previous year were not characterised by long-term rainfall. Have there been changes in management positions in recent months? I'm answering. In the last months, there have been no changes in management staff and key management positions such as branch director, technical director, traffic supervisor, chief engineers, mining managers. Changes took place in management positions in organizational cells. And so in the mining department there was a change in the position of a branch dagger due to the promotion of the former branch dagger to the position of a shift motor engineer. In the pumping and drainage department, there was a change in the post of the branch dagger due to the retirement of the former branch dagger. At present, we do not identify the threat of permanent loss of industrial resources of the deposits intended for exploitation, because that was also the question. Using the question about the future of the energy mix, I will say that we are working on a strategy, a programme for the development of brown mining. We have a plan for such assumptions and such a programme to be adopted by the end of this year. In parallel, work is also ongoing in terms of hard coal. This will be part of the energy programme. On the issue of the PAK, which you asked about, we are after a meeting of the geodesic council, whose Deputy Minister Orion Jędrysek is the chairman, and I have the opportunity to be vice-president, and we have decided that in a team from the Ministry of Environment, Energy and the Ministry of Agriculture, we will develop a position that we will try to submit for approval. Indeed, in the context of Occlusion, because I think that is what you have asked, there must be some decisions and I share the concern on this issue. As far as our ministry is concerned, it may be a little easier for us in this assessment, and we have recommended that this decision be taken positively in the event of retreat. In fact, the Ministry of Agriculture has its arguments, otherwise the industry, also the right ones, but we must collide with our opinion, which we formulate in the context of plans in the brown coal and energy sector, because this is related to it. On the other hand, as far as Złoczew and Gubin are concerned, I think that these two projects, which are not new, should be implemented in the coming years, and we are also going to make an appropriate decision next year. About Złoczew. We have a local community issue about Gubin, more about local government. On the other hand, I think that we should also be able to deal with this issue, because we are considering some provisions in which the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is to regulate this issue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] either within the framework of its internal decisions or a certain amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u60	Thank you very much. [[By when, Minister, will the decision be made on the Occlusion case?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: I think that the issue of Occlusive should be resolved by November at the latest, because the band was established last week. Now there is a parliamentary meeting, which absorbs us in Parliament, and I think that next week it will be like a binding and meeting on this matter and then trying to reach a position. So I don't want to make a promise, but I think we should have this position worked out by the end of November. Minister, please stay because the Member will ask a question. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock - an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u61	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, from the information that reaches us - this is signalled by the authorities of the Czech and German parties - it appears that there has been a significant reduction in the level of groundwater in their territory. Czechs say that it is up to 30 to 50 m. Turów has a mining licence until 2020. In order to extend it, it is necessary to develop documentation, prepare new studies, including environmental studies. This is necessary to continue the exploitation and extraction of the Turin deposit. Hence the question: Has the extension procedure been activated? Has the government fulfilled all formal time requirements?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u62	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as the Czech side is concerned, this is another indication that there are issues relating to the risks of water and sewage management. We do not quite have information that all these issues that are addressed by the Czech party will have confirmation in the documents. Of course, we do not depreciate information that reaches us more mediaally than formally. So much for what happened in the media. On the other hand, as regards the question of extension, whether all the procedures have been completed, if you allow it, we would reply in writing by checking at which stage we are, as regards this procedure, whether we really have something else to complete, because I would not now like to declare that everything is done and there will be some gaps. So that if you allow me, I will reply in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question which will be asked by Mr Wojciech Bakun, a member of the Kukiz club15, on the provisions relating to the tax-free amount. The question is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development and Finance, and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba. Has the Minister arrived? It is, isn't it? Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u65	Good morning! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The tax-free amount was one of the key elements of the Law and Justice campaign - very well - it was also a key element in President Andrzej Duda's presidential campaign. I will quote from one of the TV debates: In the first year of office, I will submit two draft laws, the first concerning the retirement age, the second concerning the tax-free amount. If I don't, I'll resign. A year has passed, and a year has passed since 28 October 2015, when the Constitutional Tribunal accepted the Ombudsman's application and issued a decision repealing Article 30 November 2016. 27 Income Tax Act, in which the tax reduction amount is recorded. Unfortunately, after yesterday's debate and after looking at the draft budget law for next year, it is clear that this amount is not expected to increase. The government has not undertaken any work on this subject, at least such work as we could know about and see in the drafting of the budget law. Hence my questions. Since 30 November is just a month from now with a small hook, does the government have rules or is working on rules that will allow it to increase on the one hand to at least minimum existence, and on the other hand, are there provisions that are prepared to ensure regular valorisation in such a way that there is never a situation that we are dealing with at the moment, i.e. one where the tax-free amount is significantly lower than the minimum existence? In addition, the ruling of the tribunal refers to the revocation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Article 2 The 27th of November, therefore, is the fundamental question: Will the government succeed with these changes? And at the end of the third, a quick question. Repeal of that Article. 27 will lead to the abolition of the tax reduction amount. I would ask you to answer: What is the interpretation of the Ministry in this matter? Is the abolition of this article. 27 will not cause the situation that Polish citizens will in principle be completely deprived of this reduction amount, and therefore each of us will lose about PLN 500 per year because we will not receive a refund of this advance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u66	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Well, let me briefly say that the government is working to implement the plan to increase the tax-free amount. Indeed, the tax-free amount will be increased. One element of this work is the work on a single tax, a single tribute. These works are being carried out and a project will actually appear before 30 November. He is now in the process of developing, but we are fully aware that he must enter into force on 30 November. So first of all, is the government working? He's working. Two: Will it work out? He'll do it. Third: What is the interpretation? There is a problem with this, because there are many opinions of lawyers on what exactly means the ruling of the Constitutional Court, how it should be interpreted, because most opinions say that the regulation itself is actually no longer in force, but a mechanism of valorization which is not there. So some lawyers say that what doesn't exist, that is, the valorization mechanism, will disappear from the legal act, that is, the Income Tax Act. At the same time, we are aware that there may be legal situations here. In order, therefore, not to leave the citizens, the taxpayers, all of us in uncertainty, to change this passage, it should be possible, first, to resolve legal doubts and, secondly, to move towards this most important moment, which is the fulfilment of the electoral promises of Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u68	Would you like to ask an additional question? Mr President, please don't discuss this because I can't get an answer. No. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Monika Rosa, Mirosław Suchoń, Mirosław Pampuch, Paweł Kobyliński, Marta Golbik and me, but unfortunately I cannot ask him because I am sitting behind the Presidency table, so on behalf of me and the other Members Mrs Monika Rosa will ask the first question, and the additional question - Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome. I will just add that the question is about the situation in Polish mining companies and mining sector. The question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, and the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy will answer Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Would you like to ask your first question? Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! We'll try to replace you with a marshal in this important matter. Minister! High Izbo! Minister, 26 April this year. an agreement was reached on the start of the Polish Mining Group. At the moment it is the largest mining company in Europe and the largest hard coal producer in the Union. The assumptions underlying the establishment of the group provided that investors would engage in PGG on market terms and will consistently supervise the implementation of the business plan of the company. In view of the expiry of almost six months after the conclusion of the agreement, it seems clear that the moment has come for parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation of certain elements of the agreement and of the financial situation of the group. We therefore address the following questions to the Minister. What is the state of progress in the implementation of the PGG business plan, i.e. the state of implementation today in relation to the assumptions made? Second question. Do all PGG shareholders have their representatives on the Supervisory Board? I ask this because the information available to the public indicates that the largest shareholder, Węglokoks, had not had a representative on the supervisory board since the beginning of the operation. Minister, why do we think this has happened, and why didn't the Minister agree to be appointed to the Council of the representative of Węglokoks? Another question. How much of the funds transferred from individual investors have already been consumed? Another question. Does the group record a loss or a positive financial result? If yes, how much is this loss or this positive financial result, depending on what it looks like, and if this loss or profit is higher, is it higher than planned in the business plan? Fifth question. What is the state of the notification process for the creation of the PGG and the private investor test which has been communicated to the European Commission? And at the end of the first part, it's such a big deal. Well, what's she like? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the situation of individual mines transferred to the SRK and what are the government's plans for each of these entities? I would also ask you to provide information on whether and what actions are being taken against the Makoszowy mine in terms of its re-place on the market and whether public aid has been granted to this company and, if so, to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u70	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is indeed a time when we in the ministry are also analysing this situation. True, we have reports on an ongoing basis, but I think it's really worthwhile that every now and then it sounds public, because somewhere in public space, you are encountering various kinds of information. So, really, I'm saying it authentically, thank you for bringing this up. As far as I'm concerned, maybe I'll start with that, Makoszowy, today's situation with Makoszów is that the state aid is 220 million. The principle, which is related to public aid granted to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, is that it must be smaller from every period, so we cannot cross it again next year if we want to maintain a subsidy to Makoshów greater than the one that took place this year. I'm gonna say... And it is also good that I have the opportunity, because I was in constant dialogue with the social side and not only with the management of the Makoszowy mine, until June, when we agreed on some activities, even as you saw it last, we announced a tender or a competition for an investor. Because there were voices that the Ministry didn't want an investor to show up, we weren't trying. On the other hand, the situation is so difficult that some expenditures related to the cost of operation of the mine have been exceeded, and it is not so that at this point there will be someone who will spend an ad hoc 220 million. I, when talking to the social side, determined certain activities with the management of the mine, suggested that such investments should be carried out, so that these investments would not exceed a certain level in relation to the sale of coal, because we had some difficulty selling coal from Makoszów. Later, after certain actions, among others. Ministry, there's a big batch of coal sales going. But what did it turn out to be? If we were balanced in June, where we are, I'm going to tell you frankly that the terror has come to us, because it turns out that where we now find an investor in the market that would raise 220 million is once, and two, the social side has decided to shout and protest, and it is not this government that has made the decision, it has made the previous one, but let us agree, with the agreement of the social side, to transfer the Makoszów to the SRK. So this is the thing that is found, and this is a difficult decision, because let's notice that Makoszowy is not one mine with which we have the difficulty of working out a position today. In addition, note that we have the European Commission, where - I am about to go to PGG - we are also at the notification stage, and this is what you were talking about, this private investor test that we have submitted. So far, I don't want to praise the day before sundown, but we have good news from Brussels. But the questions are also about Makoszowy - that Makoszowy is to be eliminated, still functioning, what we want to pay. You yourselves have rightly asked, when we have increased to 7 billion resources for the SRK, it is also assessed in Brussels, why we are increasing them, and if there is no dispute about it, it is only about the legitimacy of spending at this point, even in the context of Makoshów. So now we have a problem, because the public inquiry has shown that the investor who came forward does not meet any conditions, because there is no financial security. And we have an ambaras, I'm honest, we have an ambaras with the Makoshovs, because there's a question of who's going to lay out so much money, and in addition, with a hard social side that shows that she's not willing to talk. As far as PGG is concerned, I would like to say that we are actually following these analyses and here we maintain that the whole undertaking is based on market issues. As you know, from 11 mines we have five mines, because we have made three complex mines. As far as investments are concerned, which are planned during this period, there is between PLN 1 billion and PLN 1.5 billion for individual investments in mines, which are complex or individually, like Bolesław Śmyły. Today we are in the midst of such a process that part of the mine of Peace - this is the planned, i.e. the conversion - is transferred to the SRK together with people who have expressed their will and interest in moving to the SRK, it is about early leave or check-in. Then in individual mines we prepare the investment front, so that through the fact that we have a part of the mine of the Room... Probably in the future it will also be, we have it in the plan, some of the Rydults, because there we get the deposits naturally and as if this part of the structure will cease to be active and needed for the complex mine. There is a challenge about the Sośnica mine, and that is what I want to say honestly, because we have an agreement with the social side. By the end of the year, Sośnica mine had a chance. The point is whether it is able to work in this technical state that we have found, indeed historical, through investments to prove that it is a future mine, which will be an element added to the whole group. And this discussion will be finalized in January, whether it will remain in the group, or it will be a supporting element, because these are also the conditions of those who entered the shareholder. Those are business terms. We can't maintain entities that generate losses for us. This is a commitment to shift this debt, which we will be paying by 2025, because we have shifted over PLN 3 billion. As far as the financial result is concerned, we want to maintain that you also know the amount of walls prepared for extraction by reducing a certain asset that is unnecessary in terms of keeping it in the structure itself, in order to make the extraction effective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal, if you don't mind. Thank you very much. The point is that we can effectively extract coal, which today we are trying to contract for energy needs, so as to respond to the needs of the market. We want to move away from coal mining, where there is a problem with disposal, mainly on the Polish market, because we are building the whole concept of energy-surviving protection, so that the raw material is received by Polish energy industry, Polish coke plants and individual customers, so that in the future we can avoid a crisis issue. As far as the financial deviation of the business plan is concerned, the business plan does not appear, but is not sufficiently apprehensive that we may be concerned so that we may be concerned about the shareholders, the bondholders. There is indeed a difference when it comes to negative, and here I am going to give some numbers, but this is not the size that would cause us to be concerned. In fact, the media reported that PGG had a negative result at the end of the year, but please note that we had this planned. Of course, it is difficult to say that we were planning a negative result, but in this situation we built the Polish Mining Group. What we have in perspective is this end of 2017. This is the period that will be very important for us to achieve this element of the negative output. As regards revenues for three quarters of 2016, we have more than 1700 million revenues, then operating costs - 2 billion. Here there is a loss on sales of 328 million and on operations - less than 400, exactly 397 million. These are some deviations. As far as profit is concerned, we have a loss in net profit/loss position of 364 million. Current assets are over 1 billion, liabilities - over 3200 million. As far as coal is concerned, there's 1,400 million of it today. Today, 30 129 people are employed. I will also provide information on the Company for Restructuring of Mine. Recently we have handed over the planned part of Jas-Mos from Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, almost 3,000 today. people went on mining leave, 221 people took leave for employees of mechanical coal processing, 1300, exactly 1295 - with one-off cash checks, and 1600 people applied for the above benefits as a result of the Jas-Mos movement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u72	Thank you very much. And Mrs Monica Rosa, an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u73	Minister, thank you so much for explaining. However, we would like to ask whether all PGG shareholders have their representatives on the Supervisory Board and how many funds transferred by individual investors have already been consummated by PGG. And another question. Council Decision No 787 on State aid to facilitate the closure of competing coal mines was adopted on 10 December 2010. I would like to ask the Minister what is the implementation of this decision in Poland? How is the amount of State aid granted up to the value that is reduced in this decision? Are there any measures being taken by the government to amend this decision of the Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u74	You're welcome, Minister, to answer these additional questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u75	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I missed that answer about the coallocks and the board of directors. In fact, in the Supervisory Board, everyone, apart from Węglokoks, has their representatives, and neither does the Ministry of Energy. We're just trying to make up for it so we can have a representative of our own. But why haven't we done it yet? I think this will happen at the end of October, the beginning of November. This is due to the fact that the representative on the supervisory board was the previous President, the President of the Board of Directors of Węglokoks. After the change of board, the current board of directors presented appropriate candidates in the Ministry, which will complement the composition of the board with other persons, because there will still be changes there, because one person has resigned from the energy company, one person passes elsewhere. So in October, early November - as I recall - we have a general meeting on November 2rd or 3rd. We're gonna supplement this as the Ministry of Energy, because we've put it into our statute now, too, so we can have someone outside of the energy companies. On the other hand, the idea of the supervisory board is that all bondholders, all those who entered the Polish Mining Group, had their representatives to supervise on behalf of their companies, because they are often listed companies, the entire course of restructuring, the whole course of financing. As far as the transfer of tranches is concerned, 1 billion funds have already been paid in. This is kind of part of the money - not all that should be in the account from the bondholders - because we have a certain stage of cyclicality there, not all the funds immediately came down. We've established that they're going down in three tranches. The next tranche will be at the beginning of next year, and today the funds have gone down to 1 billion. The Management Board shall regularly submit this to the Supervisory Board, but also to the Governing Board. There was such advice on the supervisory board, which independently analyzes the whole process so that we can be fully careful, together with the management board of PGG, showing from month to month the entire investment and restructuring process, all these deadlines which result from financial flows, but also in terms of sales in terms of investments. Hence these issues of negotiation, among others. with representatives of the Sośnica mine or even this whole process of handing over the Peace mine. He's in this schedule and he's not only connected with talking to the social side, but he's also connected businessly with this whole program. Because we can't have any size - 100, 200 million - that we won't be able to control, because then we might have a problem with achieving those assumptions that we put forward, among other things. Brussels. If you would remind me of this second part...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u76	It was the Council of the European Union, decision 787 of 2010, it was public aid for mines. Are you going to do something about it? How is the amount of public aid granted up to the amount authorised in this Council Decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u77	I mean, the essence of this decision is that, as I mentioned at the Makoshowy mine, we're going to eliminate parts of mines or mines. What goes to the SRK should be wound up. It is possible to re-enter the real estate market or market into investment, but then we have a different quality. We are talking, not about an active mine, about the functioning of the hard coal sector, but about a different industrial quality. And this aid, as I said earlier, must be passed on as actually less and less from month to month, from year to year, so that it can be shown in the report that, by cutting off funding, we are actually eliminating. And here we have this problem with the Makoszowy mine, because the amount that has appeared is large, and the assumptions of the further operation of the Makoszowy mine also make it necessary to make large investments. That's why we're facing a big challenge this year, and I think it's early next year at the latest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u78	Thank you very much for this question and the answer. And we move on to the next question. They will be asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk and Mr Jolanta Szczypińska from the Law and Justice Club. This is a question about ordering matters for the children of the reformer's home. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Patrick Jak, will answer. Mrs Barbara Dziuk's first question and Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska's additional question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The subject we've been asking about has been neglected for years. This raises the question: At what stage are the activities related to the ordering of the children of the reformer's home? An adult breaks the law knowingly, a child breaks the law because they've been taught by an adult. Minors commit crimes, learning eagerly from the media, including the Internet. Shouldn't the protection of minors start with protection against content flowing from the media and the Internet? Victim protection is one side of the coin, but protecting juvenile offenders is another side. Juvenile pupils are not outlawed and are still covered by constitutional protection. Theoretically, adults should be so concerned about the rehabilitation of juveniles that the latter do not return to society even more corrupt. It is undoubtedly a great shame and scandal of legislative disorder, so far, so simple and obvious matters. Can we expect that matters related to the education of the reformer's home will be ordered? Will anyone have the idea of rehabilitating minors by work? Will the rights and obligations of minors placed in correction facilities or in shelters for minors be clarified? The law should regulate the conduct of minors and protect not only the public but also the minor from the deepening of the process of demoralization. Reinforcement of penalties is undoubtedly a good step, but it does not relieve anyone from perpetuating such behaviours in a young generation that are socially acceptable. The law regulates, but the law does not raise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u80	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u81	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The problem raised by the Member is a matter of interest to us. For months, we have been exploring ways to improve the work of institutions related to young people who have been in some kind of conflict with the law. What is the process of rehabilitation of minors through work? Juvenile correction facilities and shelters, using existing legal status, enable their pupils to train and acquire their profession, thus increasing the chance of full social integration after leaving the facility. All betting pupils go to them with educational arrears, so more emphasis is placed on their education. In establishments and shelters always work primary schools, middle school, vocational schools. There are also practices that teach, adapt to professions that are wanted on the market. School workshops work within schools, where minors acquire practical skills. In addition, minors can work in voluntary or business associations. Then they may also receive remuneration. Minors placed in hostels to self-emancipate undertake work with an outside employer. Between 2010 and 2014, pupils participated in vocational courses and trainings co-financed by EU funds. Some of them continue today as well. These are trainings, among others. for a paver, hairdresser, conservator, interior contractor, these are courses of cutting and sewing, painting, upholstery, but also courses for the guardian of children, carpenter or locksmith. In answer to the question whether we are planning to organise the legislative sphere in a comprehensive manner - yes, at the moment a draft regulation has been drawn up in the Ministry of Justice, according to which a team will be set up, which will also include people from the Ministry of Education who are subject to the agreement in the educational part. New rules are to be developed for the functioning and cooperation of these institutions, the whole area of functioning of the state, which is responsible for minors who have fallen into some kind of conflict with the law. Our task, of course, will be to achieve a more effective rehabilitation of these people, including through what you have touched, that is, through work. Here we agree with the honourable Member that there should be more emphasis on the search for work, which will be adapted to the aspirations of those who are in the correction facilities. We agree that this is the right way to ensure that this young man finds his place in society and does not fall back into conflict with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u82	I ask Mrs Jolanta Szczypinska to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u83	Thank you very much, Minister, for such a comprehensive response on this important issue. I have this question, quite important: Can we expect in these new solutions a specific range of rights and responsibilities of pedagogical staff in rehabilitation and correction facilities? Shouldn't this staff, appointed to care in educational establishments, be subject to some kind of monitoring? Should they not be the best of the best, very well-educated and paid professionals, supervised on an ongoing basis by the institutions appointed to do so? I ask because, unfortunately, we meet with many cases in which the welfare of these pupils has also been violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u84	You're welcome, Minister, to answer an additional question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me put it this way, at the moment, the criteria for the selection of educators in correctional institutions are very high, very high. And if you look at the papers, it seems that these people really do have, they should have very great skills. The practice shows, however, that the return to crime shows that it is actually very different in practice. That is why we are really planning to create a system to monitor the effectiveness of educators' work. And here there is no other criterion than to check whether the people who have gone to the tutor return to the crime or not. Such a tool will allow us to separate effective educators from ineffective educators in the future. Because it is often the case that a person with a great CV, who is less successful in practice, cannot reach such a parent, and we are talking here about very difficult cases, sometimes about young people who had problems in their own environment, in their own family, did not have a full family. That is why we will try to do everything to make these people as possible, the most appropriate and best prepared, with a high heart, empathy and openness to another person. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u86	Thank you very much. There are no messengers of Isabella Leszyna and Maria Margaret Janyska, so I will move the question to the end, perhaps they will arrive. And we'll start with another question, the Law and Justice Club. They are, aren't they? [[Marshal, I'm here now, but the Minister isn't here.]] The Minister is, then, if you have everything ready, please. If not, we'll be waiting. In that case, we begin with Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club. The question on the announcement of the introduction of a uniform tax - to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance will answer Mr Leszek Skiba. Please, Madame, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u87	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, before the last parliamentary elections, the Civic Platform presented the so-called concept. a uniform tax linked very strongly to a single contract for work. Our tax assumed lower rates for low earners, universality and simplicity, and the combination of tax on income of individuals and most ZUS contributions assumed that all these charges would increase smoothly with revenues. Importantly, we included income per person in the family in this tax, i.e. if two parents work and have five children, we divide their income by seven. The cost for the budget was to be PLN 10 billion, which is what we wanted to leave in the pockets of the poorest Poles. With surprise and even outrage, we found that the government of Law and Justice took the name of our tax, but not to lower taxes, but to train the pockets of Poles. Here Minister Kowalczyk said that this tax is to consummate the free amount, which was already mentioned here today, which was supposed to cost 22 billion for the budget. Minister Kowalczyk claims that this tax is to be neutral for the budget. That means you want to take 20 billion from the Poles. So, please change the name of your tax because if we wanted to give people 10 billion, the poorest, and you want to take away 20 billion from the Poles, that means it's not the same thing. If the Minister would be kind enough to refer to this. Let me stress once again, I am not referring to the press reports, but to the words of Minister Kowalczyk on the consumption of the amount free and the neutrality of your tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u88	Thank you, Member. And to answer this question, I ask you very much, Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Member, for this question. Indeed, a uniform tax is a good idea, and in this respect it is worth considering this concept regardless of where certain ideas arise. More important is content than genesis. As far as these key differences are concerned, because, as I understand, the Member's interest is that, in the idea that was announced before the elections, the income was really divided into families. In a situation where the Law and Justice have prepared a key social programme of 500+, this mechanism has managed to achieve the most important objective of supporting family policies, reducing social inequality, supporting people, families who have children, supporting families in the process, in the difficult task of raising children, so that these people can receive material support from the state. For this reason, it seems, it is not essential to combine solutions. On the one hand, there is a tax additional mechanism - apart from, of course, a natural tax relief - but this additional element, which would be dividing it into a family member, is from 500+. I mean, we want the 500+ programme and these monetary policy instruments to form a whole, so that after some period of operation of the 500+ programme, we really need to check which mechanisms are still worth completing. There will certainly also be a reflection on what tax instruments can complement these activities. Surely the intention is that what is, i.e. the deduction on children, will remain in this mechanism of uniform tribute. Here is the assumption, which - I have the impression - is not necessarily right, that the introduction of a free amount, i.e. the implementation of this plan and the increase of the free amount, must immediately assume a 22-billion-dollar effect. This would be the case if everyone really had the right to this amount free at the level of 8 000. Well, in this work, as I realized... Of course, works are undertaken in many places, not only in the Ministry of Finance, but above all in KPRM. It's a project that connects. Work on this project is being carried out in many places because some tasks are tasks related to the Ministry of Family and Work, as well as to the Social Security Office, The Ministry of Finance. We're dealing with an interministerial project, you can say. For this reason, many other ministries participate in this, the Ministry of Development also looks at entrepreneurship, etc. It's such a wide range of activities. Therefore, these 22 billion are, let's say, a hypothetical situation where, in this current model, everyone would have an amount of 8 000 free at this level. This is actually a question of achieving the objective of increasing the amount of free money, because indeed the amount free should be raised above all in this respect. It is necessary to give the spirit, one can say, of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which is to reduce taxation for the poorest. The aim of the single tribute is precisely to make this progression really greater so that the lower earners have lower taxation. In this sense, the free amount will be consummated - the free amount understood primarily as this spirit, but also, of course, as a certain value of tax deduction in this final mechanism that will be announced in the coming weeks. It is so that it is worth noting that for some taxpayers, not necessarily this new mechanism... The free amount of all is indeed 22 billion. The question is, does it just make sense? Generally Poles want to pay less taxes. Whether this is settled by a free amount mechanism or some other mechanism, this is a secondary issue, this is a technical issue. Indeed, it is important that the lowest earners can pay lower taxes, and for the lowest earners it will be precisely this tax reduction mechanism. In this sense, it is true that the objective is tax neutrality, because we have other programmes that already carry out these tasks, which initially, before the elections, were to carry out a uniform tax. We have 500+, and that is the task: 23 billion PLN of 500+ is to carry out the task of supporting families. Therefore, a uniform tax should be used primarily to ensure the poorest, namely this mechanism to support, simplify a certain tax system. Therefore, it is not that whoever takes 22 billion, because in fact this system does not generate a transfer of 22 billion. I mean, it's not like 22 billion is being moved from place to place. These are certainly much smaller amounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u90	I would like to ask you another additional question from Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club. I see you have arrived, so please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u91	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! First of all, let me ask you how today's solutions are related to the electoral declarations you made. You said the tax-free amount would be $8,000. zł, and it was not said that it would be in some compartments, income limits. So here's another untruth that comes out in your implementation. But I think you're very well prepared. You're saying this whole operation is going to be budget neutral, so you should have everything completely well counted, and you should use the money. This is exactly what I would like to ask the Minister to say, because today Prime Minister Morawiecki said, among other things, that the costs of reducing the retirement age will be covered by a uniform tax. He also said that a unified tax would be a solution that would make it worthwhile to run a business in Poland more than in the Czech Republic or in other countries that are tax-friendly. I wanted to ask you: [[♪ The bell ♪]] So what about the linear tax? Does this declaration by Prime Minister Morawiecki also apply to taxpayers paying linear tax today? Will they also be this group, because today they are a group with a higher tax advantage compared to taxpayers from the Czech Republic and other countries? What will happen to this tax, how they will account for themselves, whether they will account for their income as natural persons normally working, or as natural persons doing business? We know that now there will also be reliefs that they should potentially benefit from: investment, research, development, etc. Is that gonna be possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u92	I ask you, Minister, to answer this additional question as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u93	Thank you very much. Well, it's just that the work is going on. Let me remind you that there is also a bill in Parliament that allows you to combine databases with the Social Security Office and tax offices concerning this element, i.e. such a technical issue as these rates will look like at what level they will be at... In fact, this could be introduced when the bill that the honourable parliament is proceeding is completed. And then we'll actually be able to accurately show this progression in such a way that we can calculate it based on empirical data. Therefore, these statements, I understand, reflect some kind of intentions that relate to the framework in which work on a single tax should go. I certainly share the intention that entrepreneurs in Poland pay as little as possible so that these costs for entrepreneurs are as small as possible. Indeed, this is crucial in terms of growth in entrepreneurship, speeding up economic growth. Surely this should also be so, that we will have to deal with some solidarism when it comes to taxation, that the richer will pay slightly more so as to actually cover the cost of falling tax on the poorest. The purpose of this tax is not an important revolution in the structure. The point is that taxes are fair in such a way that it is not so that someone who is very rich earns hundreds of thousands of zlotys a month has a tax rate which is effectively lower for him than for someone who is a representative, let's say, has an average income. And in Poland today, it is so that really, effective taxation, this rate of taxation, taking into account the ZUS burden rates, is falling. We're not dealing with progression, we're dealing with degression. I am unable to respond directly to these calculations because of the fact that the bill, which is being processed in Parliament, has got stuck at the senate level by suspension for 2 weeks of work by Marshal Borusewicz. Therefore, when the law is adopted by Parliament, these data that are already prepared will be combined and all calculations will be completed very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u94	Thank you very much for these questions and answers. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by Members of the Law and Justice Club. The first question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak and Mr Waldemar Andzel, and the additional question - Lidia Burzyńska, is about the degree of implementation of the government's 75+ programme. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State in this ministry will answer Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Acting since September this year. The government's 75+ programme, free medicines for seniors, is the answer to the huge expectation of support for the senior environment. It is an extremely important programme which, in addition to improving the health situation of older people, also counters social exclusion of people aged 75 and over. The funds that people over the age of 75 have spent so far on medicines can now be spent on other purposes, which also translates into improving the quality of their lives. In view of the growing public interest in the implementation of the Government's programme, I would like to ask the Minister: How is the implementation of the programme currently underway? How many drugs have the seniors been given so far? Does the Ministry already have such information? What budgetary envelope has been used for this purpose since the start of implementation of the programme? Finally, the most important question is: Is there any chance that the Ministry of Health will extend the list of medicines reimbursed under the government program
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u96	I have a question. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! What medications will be extended to include the list of medicines refunded under the "Leks 75+" program? This programme, which was very expected, is very much needed, brings great interest and satisfaction to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u97	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u98	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry monitors the implementation of free medicines for seniors on an ongoing basis. We received reports from the National Health Fund every two weeks for the first month, September. On the other hand, according to the regulation to this law on free medicines, the first settlement and the first bill for the Ministry of Health will be passed on 20 October for the month of September. On the other hand, based on the data that we now have from the National Health Fund in September, we can say that the cost of implementing this program, i.e. the funds that were spent for patients of senior age on free medicines, is PLN 25 818040. This allowed for the free release of 2 712 219 packages of various preparations from this list of 75+. If we extrapolate this 25 million for a period of 4 months, the planned amount will be over 103 million. We have a budget of 125 million available in the draft budget, and therefore there is a safety margin that allows us to look at it calmly, as the implementation of the programme will not be threatened to any extent for financial reasons, we will not have to limit the implementation of this project. We constantly monitor how prescriptions are conducted, receive various kinds of comments and information on this subject, which will give us a chance to improve this list. We collect information from patient communities and national consultants about the need and indications for us regarding the extension of this list. In this respect, we have sent an order to the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification, among others. extension of the list of cardiological medicines used in hypertension to include first line medicines. I'll tell you right away why these drugs weren't introduced immediately. Because they are mainly flat-rate medicines, i.e. with a patient's payment of PLN 3.20, but we have introduced medicines with a 30% remuneration, which is significantly more expensive than PLN 3.20, into free prescription for seniors. On the other hand, a national consultant and a cardiac environment are calling for this volume of antihypertensive drugs to be expanded to include first-line drugs at the next stage. Such a conclusion went to AOTM to evaluate in accordance with accepted principles, i.e. the safety of therapy and cost-effectiveness of extending this list. The next group are medicines used in the glaucoma. Here, too, an analysis is carried out of the extension of the number of preparations for patients with glaucoma. The third group, the enlargement of which is very intensive, is the short-acting human insulin. Currently, there are long-acting insulins on the list of free medicines. There is a very significant increase in medicines, reaching around 300% Whereas the previous prescription, after evaluation from January we will also want to introduce as free those short-acting preparations, which in addition are produced by national producers, which is of course of great importance. So that there is an increase in the value of the funds for next year, planned 564 300 thousand. zł, i.e. by extrapolating, comparing expenditure from this year to future expenditure, this is growth on a yearly basis of about 190 million. This will certainly give us a chance to significantly expand this list, the volume of drugs available. The ongoing monitoring and analysis of these proposals that are affecting us will give us the chance to adapt this list to the expectations of both patients themselves and the medical environment, which knows best what preparations are dedicated to the treatment of seniors. So that the first month of monitoring the implementation of free medicines for seniors is very good, both in terms of the amount of medicines prescribed and the value. We can say that in terms of one senior who made free prescriptions for free drugs, this value amounted to approx. 28 PLN, which is a significant relief in terms of individual expenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u99	Thank you very much. Additional question, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the government's 75+ free drug program was very much needed, expected, bears witness to the words that the Minister of the Speaker just said, and the data - over 2 million packages released only in September. However, every reform is a success when the beneficiaries are informed about it. I know that the Ministry of Health takes a number of actions for information education, among other things. leaflets, posters, website, open days of the National Health Fund. It is undoubtedly a genuine concern to inform the oldest generation of Poles, but it is necessary to be sure that this handful of information reaches seniors, especially from smaller cities and villages, to which for various reasons this information does not reach, i.e. they do not use this information. Well, then you should. [[♪ The bell ♪]] further strengthen information activities at local level, the effectiveness of which is guaranteed by actions carried out by local authorities. My question is: Does the Ministry provide for an increased information campaign addressed to this group of seniors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u101	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, success will be full when as many people as possible who are dedicated to this program will be informed. These information elements, which she just mentioned, are very good in our view and reach a wide range of people. Our information posters, which were posted in pharmacies and primary health care centers - we monitor it on a local basis - still hang or are converted into promotional materials of individual companies, which in this way, in accordance with the law, also advertise the entire program and their specific preparations. Information materials are also included in the publications dedicated to doctors, but in order for this awareness to be even better, mainly on the part of beneficiaries, i.e. patients, now after the first month's analysis, after the closure of these data which I have just mentioned, of course we will resume our information activities so that they reach all health centres, including rural centres, where this information is actually limited, where access is limited, e.g. to the information provided by our portal running specifically to inform both doctors and patients about the possibilities of access to these free medicines, so that in these small towns or rural centres this information is available. That is why we will now repeat this information campaign in the second wave, putting considerable emphasis, reminding doctors about what groups of preparations are available. Besides, this knowledge was well promoted among doctors, but now we will try to put more emphasis on the well-informed seniors themselves, the interested ones themselves. Besides, seniors also write to us, to our department of drug policy, whether there is a possibility to call and everyone is kept informed, but if there is a feeling that this information campaign may not be sufficient, we will certainly repeat these information activities, mainly aimed at seniors, and we will place significant emphasis on small health centres so that doctors without any resistance prescribe these medicines for seniors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u103	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. They will be asked by members of the Civic Platform Club: Mrs Monika Wielichowska and Mrs Joanna Mucha. The question is about tightening the anti-abortion bill. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and will be answered under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Jarosław Pinkas. The first question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska and the additional question by Mrs Joanna Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent weeks there has been a debate in Poland about the tightening and liberalisation of the abortion bill. It was wrong that the majority of the Sejm did not listen to the Civic Platform and did not adopt a resolution on respect for the compromise developed by the social side and the Church several decades ago, because the adoption by the Sejm of this resolution, which had already been tabled in April, could have saved Poland from starting a worldview war, which had passed through the streets of Polish cities. It was also wrong that Prime Minister Beata Szydło failed to keep the word given in the exposé, in which she spoke a lot about humility, humility, debate, conversation with Poles and the fact that social projects would not be thrown into the trash, and then one of the social projects was thrown into the trash. That's what brought about an even greater escalation of protests. The Polish protests in many places in Poland, which opposed plans to tighten up abortion regulations, resulted in the process of this barbaric project being completed. It seemed that the subject should be closed, but it is not because, not without an echo, there remained an interview with Mr Jarosław Kaczyński and the president of the PiS, who did not leave any illusions, because on the question whether it precludes the amendment of the current abortion law as regards eugenic issues, Jarosław Kaczyński answers: I do not rule out, and then he adds that we will strive to make even cases of very difficult times when the child is sentenced to death, strongly deformed, but ends in childbirth so that this child can be baptized, buried and has a name. So I ask: Are the Prime Minister, the government and the majority of the parliament planning to tighten up the anti-abortion bill, as announced by Jarosław Kaczyński? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why does the government not want to respect the compromise reached and the adoption by the majority of the Sejm of the resolution on respecting the compromise? Why does the government really want to continue in an ideological and worldview war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u105	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No work is currently being carried out to amend the existing Law of 7 January 1993 on family planning, protection of the human foetus and conditions for abortion. No work is being done. If you will allow me, I would like to inform you that today is the third meeting of the substantive team appointed by the Prime Minister to prepare a government support project for the families of the "For Life" family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u107	Stay here, or we'll have an extra question, I understand. Mrs Joanna Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! We expected such an answer, we expected as a club, but unfortunately you can't abstract yourself from being in a government that was chosen by such a majority, and you can't abstract yourself from the fact that, if this bill is passed in the Sejm, you're going to have to implement it. Therefore, I have additional questions for you. First, most importantly: Does the Ministry monitor the number of legally performed pregnancy applications broken down by reason of that term? As far as the cause of irreversible and severe foetal injury is concerned, do you monitor how many of these terms apply to Down syndrome? Because that is what President Kaczyński and many other people from the majority of the parliament are saying about the fact that it will not be possible in such a situation. Do you prepare analyses and show analyses concerning e.g. this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how will these prohibitions affect the ability to perform prenatal tests, and what consequences will they have for children who cannot be treated? Do you monitor access to contraception due to the planned ban and the possibility, simply, of shutting them down for Polish people? Because I don't have much time, I'm just gonna finish with a question again. Are you preparing that such legislation may be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u109	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for that question. Of course, in the near future we will present a report that we must prepare and present to the Sejm every year concerning the implementation of this law. He'll be back in 2015. Due to the public reporting procedure, it is always delayed. But what I want to say is that we are leaning down on this problem right now and we are going to try to analyse it quite precisely, because so far such precise analyses have not been carried out, in which cases the legal term of pregnancy is being carried out. Of course, we have rough information, but this information will be deepened by the work of national gynecology consultants. I will present this work to the national consultant team of the Member in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u111	Thank you very much. We move on to another question, which will be asked by members of the Law and Justice Club, Jarosław Gonciusz and Andrzej Gawron, about possible changes in government IT registers due to the possibility of irreparable cancellation of the identity card. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization, and the Undersecretary of State in this Ministry will answer Mr Karol Okoński. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and additional question by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u112	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns possible changes in government IT registers due to the possibility of irreparable annulment of the identity card. The system of state registers was launched in the municipalities in March 2015. It has been improved and updated so far. The Central Information Technology Centre is responsible for collecting information from municipal officials on the functioning of the system. An important problem is the lack of the possibility of reversing the mistaken operations carried out in the system, in particular those concerning the annulment of the identity card. Unfortunately, today is not possible. Any one of us could lose his ID someday. However, it should be borne in mind that when we declare it invalid, we are doing the irreparable work recorded in the Register of Personal Evidence. This means that if a document is found, it becomes useless to us. Officials described to me that a mistake could also happen. when issuing a new identity card when the new document is annulled instead of the old document. As a result, the penthouse stays with two invalid blanks. All officials are connected to one central IT system, so it is also possible to mistakenly invalidate the identity card of the resident of another municipality, which in turn poses additional problems. I would therefore like to ask: Is the Ministry planning to take action to resolve this small problem, as we believe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u113	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. Still important to you, sir. I reply on behalf of the Ministry of Digitalization, but this reply is also agreed here with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration as part of our approach to this, leaving the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that it will be as complete as possible. In the first place, the question arises as to the purpose of allowing the official to restore the validity of the proof, i.e. what scale of this phenomenon we are talking about here. So we do not have such an analysis, but I can say that as part of the team working on it - a team working in the composition of the Central Information Technology Centre, the Ministry of Digitalization and representatives of the offices for which the system of state registers is a tool of work - they are analysed on an ongoing basis. I know that the subject appeared during the meetings of this team, but it was not considered critical or urgent. And please note that as far as the system of state registers is concerned, it is actually being intensively improved in the last year. 900 applications were made this year and among them there was no such topic. In any case, however, this correction would require an in-depth analysis of both legislation, because we already know that changes would be necessary there, but also the safety of legal and technical trade. These changes, the analysis of these changes, seem to make sense when we actually confirm that the scale of this phenomenon has a wider dimension. With regard to what it looks like now, please take into account that at this point in time in the Register of Personal Evidence, such solutions are applied which force the official to have a sequence of actions and to confirm, to sign those actions which he carries out, which to a significant extent causes that it can be avoided as a result of a mistrial of the document. That's one thing. On the other hand, let us also bear in mind that the annulment of the document also has some consequences at once, and the official may realize that he made this mistake only after some time, when this information about the annulment is already distributed further, as the invalid identity card is, among other things. entered in the register of invalid identity cards, which is already made available in real time as a service e.g. for banks, even in the process of applying for credit. Many banks have implemented a verification service for identity card validity, as it is possible to verify this, as I say, in real time. The second consequence is that at the time when the document is cancelled is due to the loss of the document or to the fact that it is declared missing, such a document is transmitted to the Schengen Information System as a wanted document. And now, if we wanted to restore the validity of the evidence, it would also require building a communication process and like canceling an entry in that register, which would also not be a procedure that could be applied immediately in real time. The second thing I would also like to point out is that it is precisely because the statement that the document should be restored, and the fact that it has been annulled, these are two events disconnected over time, that we could allow doubts to arise as to the validity of this document at the time of some activity based on this document. Another thing that is worth pointing out is that this could lead to some kind of abuse if the civil servant's freedom of action was too great here. On the other hand, if the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration were to decide to make appropriate changes to the law that would allow this technical change, the Ministry of Digitalization is here in the view that this activity should not be carried out by a staff member of the municipality's office, but it should be a specific procedure which, in justified cases, would require notification of a wish to restore the validity of the proof to the Ministry of Digitalization and this ministry as administrator, the staff member of this ministry would only be able to make this change. I think that this is the only way to minimise the risk of abuse when making these corrections and coordinate these corrections also in other systems. In conclusion, the possibility of restoring the validity of personal evidence at this point is not planned, and a detailed analysis of the possible change can be undertaken when we confirm that the scale of the phenomenon and the urgency of the solution are actually sufficient and relevant. So much for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u115	Additional question - Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! However, there are reports that such cases occur. Indeed, we believe that such an analysis is needed. Sometimes it turns out that a person who doesn't know that his evidence is invalid may need this evidence at a given time, and the record shows that this evidence is invalid. I wanted to refer to another subject, which may also be connected with these central registers, with the systems of state registers. Maybe you could also answer whether it's more technical or more legal when it comes to the birth of a child. If the child is born, there must be a birth certificate issued in a given village where the child was born. If we have a common national register, would it not be possible to make this procedure at the place of check-in, residence of parents. It happens that parents simply decide to give birth in another village, this more popular village. Then they may have queue problems, etc. In order to do this, you have to get to this town. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd ask you to analyze it, if that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u117	This is a question that is not so much a technical issue as it is a matter of law. So that the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration would be more appropriate to answer. On the other hand, in principle, I can only say to the Member that, in general, we want, as part of the services offered to citizens, to lead to the situation that it would be possible to report information on the birth of the child simply where the birth occurs, which is simply in the hospital. So it's possible for this information to be included in the state register directly from the health care facility. This requires, in fact, still coordinated action, as if further discussion. On the other hand, our work certainly leads to a maximum simplification, shortening and not actually making it necessary, all the more so in connection with our mobility at this point, moving to exactly where someone is checked in. So that this work is being done in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the government's activities related to the acquisition of helicopters for the Polish Armed Forces, which was proposed by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and representatives of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Czesław Mrocek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For several days the whole of Poland has witnessed the great confusion and unique inefficiency of the government in implementing the contract for the Armed Forces in the field of the acquisition of multitasking helicopters... [[But which government?]] I am talking about the government that currently exercises power in Poland. ...a contract that's important to the Armed Forces and that's important to our security. Now a brief reminder of the facts. October 4th this year the government departs from offset negotiations with Airbus Helicopters, which in practice means the cancellation of the tender, which lasted almost 4 years. October 10th this year Minister Antoni Macierewicz, in the presence of Prime Minister Beata Szydło at the Sikorsky factory in Mielec, commissioned, not announced, but commissioned the delivery of six helicopters to the Special Forces. On October 11, it turns out that it will be eight helicopters, and on October 12 it declares that Sikorsky will deliver 21 helicopters. A few days later, MON declares that Poland with Ukraine will build its own helicopters. On 18 October, it turns out that MON will buy helicopters under the so-called. urgent operational needs. Interestingly, the MON is headed towards the entities, the three companies that took part in the cancelled tender. MON allocates PLN 1 billion for this purpose, which means that only a few helicopters will be purchased in this new procedure. All of Poland has also witnessed a gross violation of public procurement rules and rules. The tender shall be cancelled, the contract shall be divided and the contract shall be commissioned to the company without a tender, after complete consideration. Why is this happening? Because the interests of the government and the interests of Law and Justice differ from those of the Armed Forces and the interests of the Polish State. Antoni Macierewicz and many important representatives of Law and Justice openly claimed that this tender must be cancelled. Not much, they pointed out the companies that were supposed to get this contract. In the election campaign, Law and Justice signed an agreement with trade unions and trade unions demanded that this tender be cancelled. Today, Law and Justice, the Polish government is fulfilling the electoral promises regarding the cancellation of this tender. We also have unclear interests in this case, because the ones I just described are quite clear. The unclear ones are: MON through the Polish Armed Group concluded an agreement with American lobbyist Alfonse D. Amato, who acted for the company that the MON ordered to deliver helicopters. Remember what Antoni Macierewicz and all the representatives of the PiS said about Waldemar Skrzypczak's famous letter, the Undersecretary of State in MON, addressed in the framework of the only ongoing contract. He did not commission a specific task in this letter, he mentioned correspondence. You said the person in charge of this function must be beyond suspicion. What are the consequences of this confusion? The government has led to a serious crisis in many aspects. First of all, in terms of state security. The army will not have, will not receive dozens of necessary helicopters, nor will it have anything to replace the withdrawn Russian helicopters, it will not be able to carry out the tasks which the Polish state puts to the Polish army. For what reason? The Polish State has the resources for this purpose and has appointed these measures to the Minister of National Defence to carry out this task. Why didn't he do it? Secondly, the economic crisis, perhaps the most devastating of all your actions. The government in the way of these strange actions lost or deliberately abandoned the offset. The reason for the break-up of the offset negotiations with Airbus was said to have been an unsatisfying offset. You didn't like 13 billion. A few thousand jobs weren't enough. Now there will be no offset at all. The Polish economy will not maintain modern technologies, there will be several thousand jobs, and state-owned airlines in Łódź, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't have a chance at a future in Dęblin. You have led to a conflict with our partner and ally in the European Union, NATO - with France. The sign of your strange activities will be this famous tour of Minister Macierewicz with Prime Minister Beata Szydło after the companies to clean up the company's warehouses, not to care about the Armed Forces. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u120	Thank you very much, sir. And I will ask the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, for an answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In what we have just heard, one thing is true, the truth that I would like not only this Chamber, but also the whole Poland to hear, because it is the foundation of our thinking about politics. Mr Mroczek said: Law and Justice are fulfilling their electoral promises. Yes, it's true, Law and Justice is fulfilling their electoral promises. [[Applause]] Law and Justice will develop the Polish defence industry. Law and Justice will strive to ensure that the Polish defence industry is the foundation of the national security of Poland. Law and Justice will strive for the Polish defence industry to become a flywheel of expansion and reconstruction... [[No offset.]] ...Polish security and Polish prosperity. [[Applause]] Law and Justice takes care of Polish workers and Polish engineers. [[What about the soldiers?]] Law and Justice takes care of Polish military structures. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] He did it, and he's gonna do it no matter what you try to stop him from doing it. [[It's about the army.]] Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have been a Member of the Republic of Poland since 1991. [[Too long.]] I have seen many scandalous behaviours in this House, but I have never seen such a situation in which a group of Members fully consciously, cynically and shamelessly act against the Polish state for international concerns. Without even hiding that the idea is that 13.5 billion PLN, instead of powering the Polish industry, will become the foundation of the development of... [[But talk about the army.]] [[It would.]] ...the industry of another country, even if we consider this to be our closest ally. [[The voice from the hall: Is Mielec Russian?]] [[A Łódź is Poland, Radom is Poland, Dęblin is Poland.]] Even if we were in love with his culture, civilization, achievements and all other qualities. This is an extraordinary thing in the history of Poland, all the more so that we are dealing with a redecisive. The same people who today act against Poland on behalf of another group were acting against Poland for the Russian Federation, when the Polish political elite died. [[Oh, right.]] The same people were acting against Poland in favour of other countries, when it was about emigrants settling in, undermining Polish security. [[It's not working anymore. These arguments don't work.]] [[It's working.]] [[Lies don't work anymore.]] Ba, the same people were in favour of Poland paying the penalty for wanting to protect the security of its own people and its own citizens. And now it's premeditated... [[It's working.]] ...against the Polish state for foreign interests. I repeat, it's an extraordinary story. This is done using lies, slanders, and misrepresentations of the truth. Why don't we start with the thousands of jobs that we've been talking about? In none of the documents, and I've read them very thoroughly - now the Central Anti-corruption Office will be familiar with them. [[Applause]] - there is no guarantee of 6,000 in any of the documents. jobs for Poland as a result of the transfer of PLN 13.5 billion to the international concern. None of the documents. This is systematically repeated not true. It's a systematically repeated lie. Like systematically lying to employees of Łódź and employees of other cities, thousands of jobs are supposed to be linked to this contract. [[The committee of inquiry will explain.]] This contract in the dimensions in which Minister Mroczek, today's Member of the Civic Platform, concluded it, at best assumed that in the assembly room, not in the factory, not in the production plant, but in the assembly room which was to be submitted, High Izbo, at most in a few years 25 helicopters, Caracal helicopters, will be employed up to 200 people. This was the horizon of possibilities that were assumed for Łódź. Moreover, the first 25 helicopters were to arrive already assembled, but at most Polish employees could paint the chessboard on them, this was the scope of this contribution of technology, economic development and industrial development that you predicted for Poland in connection with this tender. [[Lies on lies, Minister.]] [[The voice from the hall: But the soldiers needed...]] [[Voice from the hall: Whose business are you looking after, Polish?]] [[Voice from the hall: Polish.]] What I'm saying is, High Izbo, I've never hidden my view of this contract. It is true that as a Member of the Committee on National Defence, when it was concluded, I did everything to show the public the whole shape of this contract, so that the public could know whether it was an act for the benefit of Poland or for the detriment of Poland, or if 13.5 billion PLN should be located outside Poland, whether it should become the main tool for the revival of the Polish economy, or whether it should go to Polish workers, Polish engineers and equipment produced in Poland. [[Applause]] I was actually in favour of this solution. But I would also like to say that as soon as Poland and the Government of the Republic of Poland were elected in free elections before the fact made with the conscious evil will of Minister Mrozek and his colleagues, before the conclusion of the contract, I have excluded myself from taking part in further negotiations on this matter. These negotiations were not conducted by the Ministry of National Defence directed by me, these negotiations were conducted by the Ministry of Development, because it legally assumed these responsibilities... [[Exactly.]] ...and the Ministry of National Defence did not intervene in any way in these negotiations. Moreover, in all the international discussions that I had on this issue, and I have been asked many times - by our English partners, by our French partners, by our US partners - I have always been asked about this contract - I have always answered the same question. Poland keeps its commitments, even if they are unfavorable for Poland, but whether or not this contract will be concluded depends on offset negotiations, i.e. depending on the extent to which the commitment will be respected that Poland will not lose on this, that technology will come here, that there will be production opportunities that Poland will be able to benefit from it and not lose. [[No offset.]] These negotiations ended, as you know, with the resignation of an international company, which was to deliver these helicopters, due to the fact that it did not meet the conditions that the Polish party had made. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The French resigned?]] And you know very well, or you should know that it is the one who is the offset recipient, that the Polish state determines the terms of the offset. It is not you who act as lobbyists of foreign companies that will determine this. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] The Polish State determines the conditions of the offset. The Polish State designates whether the contract pays or not. [[The voice from the hall: The old corpses you ordered.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u122	Minister, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u123	Your marshal, a personal charge has been filed here. If your marshal would only allow me to answer on this particular matter, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u124	Okay, that's it in this part, and we're finishing up because you're gonna have time in the second part of this debate. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u125	I will be very grateful to you, because it is really important, especially since the public, including your fellow Members, has certainly known this for a long time, because this matter has been explained at least for a month by the public statements I have made in this matter to the media. A, more than public statements, because the contract between the Polish Armed Group and the lobbying company of Mr.Senator D. Amato was a contract publicly and openly concluded in the United States, entered in a register, in which everything is transparent from the beginning to the end. [[And?]] Therefore, my comments on this subject have also been repeatedly communicated to you, but you preferred to use lies, lies and slander instead of telling the truth. [[Look who's talking.]] The truth is that Senator D. Amato, and precisely his company has committed itself to the safety of Poland, and especially... [[Sikorsky.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: And he's successful. Very vibrant.]] ...especially for the effectiveness of our goals in relation to the NATO Summit... [[Until next spring.]] Until the fall of this year. And she fulfilled her full obligations. [[Can you guys do it faster?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u126	I think, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u127	It was not Senator D. Amato and his company who paid money to any Polish official. It was Poland that hired his company to support Polish interests in the United States.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u128	Minister, I think I've given you enough time to give...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u129	And he supported them effectively. The Polish goals at the NATO summit have been fully achieved. [[Beautiful. Beautiful. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u130	Minister... Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: For you, it's salt in your eye because you didn't want to be stationed... Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u131	...American and NATO wars in Poland. And that's why you're reacting to it. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: What?!]] [[What? What kind of nonsense are you talking about, man? Scandal!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u132	Minister, sometimes it's worth listening to others who have something to say. [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: I'm all ears, Marshal.]] And you didn't listen to me at all in the part where I told you there was enough time to respond to the additional attention. [[Who's got something to say? Show yourselves, Cossacks!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. 44 Members have signed up at the moment. Let me remind you that the time to make a statement, the time to speak in this section is 2 minutes. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see anymore, so I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Soboń, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A year ago, more or less from the politicians of the Civic Platform, but also from the mouth of Airbus Helicopters... The auction continued on what would arise as a result of a contract with Airbus Helicopters on the Caracal helicopter. There's been talk of a military airfield, thousands of new jobs. That was said, Minister, before the offset negotiations actually started. The Civic Platform was bidding with an interested concern who wanted this contract, because this contract would give him such a position in Poland that - as Mr Mroczek knows very well - there would be no place for bets in Świdnik and Mielec. With Polish money we would degrade or eliminate this industry, which we still have in Poland today and whose potential is unique in Europe. [[What Polish do we have?]] This is the potential that is unique in Europe, because today Poland still has such potential. [[What is the Polish helicopter plant?]] [[Unless it's called Sikorsky.]] Last April, President Komorowski in Lublin... [[What Polish plant do we own? Sikorsky's name?]] ...by the decision of the tender he said the following words: What kind of company is it that makes its fate dependent on one contract, meaning PZL-Świdnik. How different was the reaction of French President François Hollande, who said that such a contract resulted in a diplomatic response. I think that these words by Komorowski and Hollande are very good at showing the difference in approach to our own economic interests, the difference between Poland and France. You've been lying about this from the very beginning. You got into it, you got no choice, you gotta keep lying tonight, though I think it'd be worth it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] stop this game because it actually happens in a civilized world that the parties do not agree in hard budget negotiations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u134	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u135	Well, it happens, but it's normally accepted. This is unacceptable in postcolonial mentality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u136	Thank you, sir, and I ask you to speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u137	Looks like you guys are still in it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u138	...Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With regard to the relations with the senator, former senator of the lobbyist D. Amato, here, in the presence of the High House, the Minister has basically confessed his guilt. And I thank you for this specific confession, because we will prepare a request for a committee of inquiry. Perhaps this proposal will not obtain a majority in this term of office, but it will be an important part of the evidence. [[You wouldn't want him to get the majority.]] But the most important question is: Does the Polish army need helicopters? Does he need equipment perfectly equipped with weapons, and will these helicopters reach the soldiers in time? Because the resuscitations of those Soviet helicopters that are currently equipped are running out. And the most important question is: Is the Minister of National Defence supposed to take care to increase the defence capabilities of the Polish army? In this situation, I ask another question: Is the lack of these 50 helicopters weakening the defence capabilities of the Polish army? You're nodding the Minister's head - yes, weakening. Who decided that these helicopters would not be received by the Polish army at the moment? Are you the Minister? [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: Wy.]] You're the minister, too? Minister? It's very... [[Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz: Wy.]] ...the important question: Who decided that there would be no offset, an offset measured by the scale of PLN 13.5 billion? Because Minister Domagalski-Łabędzki said that helicopters that will be delivered by Świdnik or Mielec do not involve offsets. And I don't know if it's just stupid, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or even sabotage. These are important questions. [[Applause]] [[What stupidity did you ask? Whose?]] [[Voice from the room: His.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u140	Thank you very much. Another speech, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[So there's an answer, Christopher gave it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I understand the need to change equipment for the Polish army, but I have a question: How much time do we have? Will it not turn out that there will be a lack of hardware and will the army's current equipment suffice for the exchange period, Minister? Does the purchase of helicopters take into account the individual needs of individual units? However, each has its own specific characteristics and possible equipment will also be very crucial for different units and their different needs. Is the use of Polish technical thought taken into account? It goes on for example. It's about the Falcon/Deaf helicopter. This construction paradoxically newer than Caracala, was developed at a later stage, earlier it was the Falcon helicopter, then the Falcon/Huzar, then the Falcon/Guszac. [[Ha, ha! Compared to Caracala...]] Or will Polish technical thought be used for the development of Polish industry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u142	Thank you very much. Another question, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Minister Macierewicz, as well as the entire PiS, likes to talk a lot about lobbyists, about Airbus lobbyists. I stand here as a lobbyist of my city, Lodz, and I wanted to ask why in all the statements of the Prime Minister, the Minister is talking about Polish workers in Mielec or Świdnik, but nothing is said about Łódź. It is not said that resigning from this contract is really taking a chance, taking a chance for well-paid jobs, taking a chance for modern technology in Łódź, taking a chance for scientific development in cooperation with the Technical University of Łódź, taking a chance to make it a new course of study. All of this was also crossed over by this decision. But I'm more concerned about something else. I wanted to ask you how it is possible that the invitation to tender, which took place for several years, the invitation to tender, which is a requirement that we can be sure that everything is transparent, ends at a certain point and every subsequent decision is made only in the framework of the Minister's arbitrary decisions. I do not understand the reasons for believing that no one else had any other interests, that any individual decisions had not worked, preferences that had worked the interests of the state. I would also like to ask, given that we will probably not have these helicopters in 2017 in the amount that we would have in tender for the caravane, why the Minister wants to leave Poland defenseless and why he perpetuates this defencelessness, and why he is sabotaging the armoring of the Polish army. [[What nonsense!]] Because I really feel like you're looking for money in the budget for other purposes. Why are you making Poland vulnerable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u144	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Last Monday, like a lightning bolt from the sky, first thing in the morning, you came to Mielec with the Prime Minister, announcing that you will buy helicopters there again this year. When it turned out those helicopters were gone, you pulled out quickly and went somewhere else. [[There's no paperwork.]] In the meantime, the smoke began to spread, more and more sensational information, with the Ukrainians we will build helicopters... So some total confusion has arisen in public space. [[We'll buy from the Russians.]] And today, the Mielec community is asking what it's gonna be like, what it's gonna look like. Will these helicopters be purchased this year? Because they're gone, and it's October. When you realized it was October, you quickly pulled out of the story. [[It'll buy it at the bazaar.]] How many helicopters are there at what price? This conflicting information is repeated every day, so I would ask you very much to dispel, Minister, this uncertainty and once specifically give reliable information, because this information that appears every day is contradictory. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u146	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, near the European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I'd agree with the fact that PiS is fulfilling its electoral obligations. How's it look? We witness it every day. Demonstrations on the streets. There are people who are clearly so blind and stupid that they don't understand. On the other hand, Minister Macierewicz, you are holding these commitments mainly to Mr D. Amato, to Mr. Misiewicz, to the supporters of Mr. Putin, as has already been mentioned in this Chamber. How'd you hear that steak of nicknames, that pack of lies? - I've gotten used to your lies - a steak of insults, it's actually missing, although you're already close to your mentor and teacher, there's still a lack of Gestapo, a worse sort, ladies in fur and a few epithets, but you're developing, Mr. Macierewicz. [[Fuck off, Grandpa.]] As far as the substantive issue is concerned, the assessment of this fatal, bad for Poland, suspicious tender, for which, I hope, you will be in front of the competent tribunal, has already been presented by Minister Mroczek, so I will only give a few more small comments here. If, as you say, all jobs were not actually guaranteed here, no jobs were generated by this tender, then all this was fiction, then why did Mrs Szydło come to Łódź and promise Łódź employees, employees of the Łódź airlines at Retkini, that there would be all the jobs, that there would be hundreds more jobs? Are you lying or is Mrs. Szydło lying? I dare not suspect that you are lying to Prime Minister Szydło, which means it goes a little for you, Mr Macierewicz. Point two, maybe you can explain it, because there's a lot of confusion in this case. Yes, you've finished the bidding with the French, then there were signals, it seems from Mr Morawiecki that all parties, and so also the French, are once again invited to the tender. So you're done, or you're not done? You're building. You have announced that you are purchasing these Black Hawk helicopters, which for various reasons are particularly bad for the Navy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But in turn you want to build - three seconds, your marshal - a helicopter together with Ukraine, and that too with such people quite suspicious, and on the other hand you declared that Russia declared war on us. So I ask you again, are we at war with Russia, Mr Macierewicz, or are we not? Make up your mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u149	When I look at you in the bleachers, I'll sum up...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u150	Mr President, we have already missed these three seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u151	Now, Marshal, last sentence. Namely, let me paraphrase Nowaczyński, who was so kind to speak, and it fits perfectly with Mr Macierewicz: There is no Mickiewicz without Mr.Tadeusz, there is no Mr.Tadeusz without Yankel, there is no Jankiel without cymbals. Viva, Macierevich! [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u152	Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. It's another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, I'd like to stick to time for two minutes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Polish army needs to be modernised and equipped with state-of-the-art equipment. It is not surprising, therefore, that we have withdrawn from the unfavourable bid for the purchase of French caracalas. This is because it is a modernized construction from the 1960s, much older than offered by Americans, Italians or British. If we want to equip our army with helicopters that will serve us as best as possible and as long as possible, we need to decide on the latest equipment, which does not raise any objections. We need more than 50 helicopters for over 13 billion. Before that, you promised us 70 helicopters for 11 billion. [[How much are these?]] [[Now there'll be two.]] In addition to the negative offset error of the previous PO-PSL team, there was only one helicopter platform, so one helicopter type for different needs... [[There isn't one now.]] ...both the Navy, the Air Force and the Navy, and it is worth mentioning that the Navy has two types, types of needs, namely helicopters to combat submarines and marine rescue helicopters, and certainly the Caracal helicopter to meet these marine needs, what was said here before, in my opinion, was not suitable. It is also impossible for one helicopter platform to satisfy such different needs. [[What about the military ones? Andzel said.]] We need helicopters of different classes, at least two or three types. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. Will the new tender include different types of helicopter platforms? Whether a separate tender for a heavy transport helicopter will be organised, such as: could carry vehicles like a hummer because none of the proposed vehicles met these requirements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u154	Thank you very much. Another speech, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You will not shout with a nervous scream of reality, because for weeks Poles have seen, Poles have heard and understood... [[Don't yell.]] [[Voice from the room: Relax.]] ...that the ongoing chaos, contradictory information, lack of concrete, irresponsible decisions by the Government of Law and Justice to break the tender for the purchase of caracala pose a threat to the security of the Polish state, to the Polish army, as well as the resignation from the creation of the only state-owned helicopter production facility in Poland, the Polish centre of modern industry. I would like to remind you that here, on the occasion of the 100 days of her reign, Prime Minister Beata Szydło said: we want to base the possibility of Polish helicopters on Polish companies, but we do not give up caracala. Why the Polish Government of Law and Justice resigned from the offset in which to find employment about 6 thousand. People? That's where the production was supposed to be. [[Voice from the room: 300.]] [[That's not true, that's not true.]] It's true. [[Voices from the O.R.: No, they're not.]] It's true. Why did the Government of Law and Justice resign from the offset, which guaranteed over PLN 13 billion for the Polish economy? Why does the Government of Law and Justice want to support US arms plants rather than Polish ones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz club15, another statement in this part of the point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u157	My dear Miss Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult to argue with such emotions about the security of our country, about the efficiency of our army. I have the impression that introducing a policy into the helicopter selection area is a total mistake. So I have some questions about the caracal contract, which are repeatedly asked to me both in the media and by our voters. First of all, is it true, Minister, that there was some arrangement whereby caracales were supposed to compensate France in exchange for the loss of the benefits of producing three Mistral warships? [[Marcus, Marcus...]] Is it true that after losing this contract, the French sold these ships to Egypt and Egypt sold them to Russia? What I'm trying to say is that Russia's been in all the media about this for two days. Is it true that caracals were so expensive, because their price included the costs of building lines and the lines themselves to assemble these helicopters in Poland, i.e., in other words, offsets, for which we paid ourselves? Is it that you announced, probably the day before yesterday, that there will be an invitation to tender and you will formulate tenders addressed to the same helicopter manufacturers, excluding others, e.g. NH Industries, is that true? Perhaps you would have to start from the beginning, only in a much faster mode, certainly not a 4-year-old. It seems that the situation is so urgent and so important that today we should make decisions in a transparent but instant way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u158	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked, and in principle a statement will be given by Radosław Lubczyk, a modern club. You're welcome. [[He's gonna make a statement?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions. In the 2016 MON budget, several billion were saved for the caracala contract. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Budget Sub-Committee, we learned that this money had already begun to be spent since the beginning of the year. So I understand that it was already known at the beginning of the year that this tender would not take place unless the Minister did not know it, because it passed to the Ministry of Development. What would have happened if this contract had been concluded? Is that the money that has already been spent on this tender to make it? That's my first question. Second question. I do not know if the Minister knows, but the production of a new car to order takes about 7 months, so I would like to ask how long it takes to produce a helicopter, because I guess it will be much longer periods, and in fact I am willing to make such a thesis that the tender for the caracale was cancelled for one very important reason: because Mr.Misiewicz was not a caracala pilot. Thank you. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: But she will be.]] [[Voice from the room: Babushkin division will fly.]] [[You're hurting so much.]] [[The voice from the hall: Babushkin the whole division.]] [[But the boy wanted to exist.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice, is another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that such embarrassing observations of some Members should not take place, at least in the plenary room of the Polish Parliament, which is why I would like you gentlemen to refrain from such personal trips. Ladies and gentlemen! The technical modernisation programme assumed that Poland would purchase multi-purpose helicopters, that it would purchase 70 units for the amount of PLN 11 billion. Such arrangements were adopted by the Government of the Civic Platform and the Ministry of National Defence, first led by Minister Klich, later by Minister Semoniak. As part of the negotiations it turned out that Poland would not buy 70 helicopters, only 50, and not for PLN 11 billion, but for PLN 13.5 billion. By counting unitly, they'll be the most expensive helicopters in the world. I do not know if you realize that the individual art would cost us 270 million PLN, as much as 1/3 of the wide-hull Dreamliner, which the Polish fleet prides itself on Polish Airlines. What was that supposed to be in that chopper? And the fact that it was to be used in the campaign of the Civic Platform, because it was Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, then Ewa Kopacz announced everywhere and because the choice was made. During these discussions, the name of my hometown, the city of Radom appeared, when the activists of the Civic Platform indicated directly that in Radom there would be an Airbus factory, then that there would be jobs in Radom, that Radom would be a key place for this investment. Therefore, my question, Minister: Does Radom appear in any official tender documents for the purchase of a multi-purpose helicopter [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the Polish army? Is Radom listed directly? Is the city of Radom or was it taken into account in these negotiations as the location of the factory, the place of creation of new jobs, the place of technical cooperation, but also economic cooperation with Airbus Helicopters? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u162	Thank you very much. Another speech, Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! [[A red general or something.]] Minister, you've been talking for a very long time... [[What did your dad do? Did he have any effect on that?]] ...you actually yelled at the Members, insulted them, but you didn't say anything. [[But did I say something?]] It's a shame you can't answer those questions that are being asked in public. So I'm gonna ask them again from the speaker, because Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u164	Mr, wait a moment, please. I draw the attention of Members of Parliament and Members to the fact that everyone will have time to speak and then all the comments that are now falling will be made. It's to both my right and my left. I would ask you to continue, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u165	Minister, Poles have the right to know what your relationship is... [[Say it louder.]] ...what are the relationships of the MON you're running with the lobbyist of the company you're choosing without any procedure, without any tender, because it's not a free choice. [[Where did you work?]] Members of Law and Justice, who are now so eager to shout, I will remind you of one thing - the words of your Vice-President of the National Defence Committee in last term, when the matter of General Skrzypczak took place. [[General?]] I'm sure you remember. Your vice-president said: the person responsible for the biggest tenders in the history of the Polish army cannot raise any doubts. That's what a member of law and justice said. Minister, you're in controversy right now. You can't answer questions that are made public. You're acting like a silent actor from Charlie Chaplin's movie, but unfortunately it's not funny. These are very serious questions. [[Red October.]] I have one more question now, because I hope that you will stop running and tell me from this speaker what your contacts are with the people that the press is writing about. One more question. Now you've said, or actually, you invited the companies to negotiate yesterday, talking about an urgent operational need. And I have a question as to whether this is an urgent operational need for the Polish Army, or whether this is an urgent need for Minister Macierewicz to prevent you from facing the prosecutor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] What documents, as far as this urgent need is concerned, have been directed from the commanders of types of armed forces. Who identified this urgent need? Mr. or Mr. Misiewicz? [[Voice from the room: Klich.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u166	Thank you very much, sir. And another speech, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[It's over.]] [[Be careful, or we'll meet in court...]] [[I'll get you a verse.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Kaleta...]] If you don't mind my asking for silence. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u168	Members, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u169	Ladies and gentlemen! No one in this room has any doubt that Poland needs new helicopters for at least two reasons. First of all, Polish pilots should not fly on the museum's equipment to ensure that security is guaranteed, and secondly, more importantly, that our state's defence capacity is satisfactory, high. Personally, I'm having second thoughts. as regards technical issues, as regards the procedure under which the tender for these equipment was carried out, for these machines, because the tender was in a two-stage manner. First, the winner was chosen and then the offset negotiations started, and offset is the most important issue that we cared about most. What was our negotiating position when the tenderers found out they were chosen? So there's the doubt. But what you did, Minister, also raises serious doubts. What is the negotiating position of the Republic today when you have announced the supplier of this equipment? How can we effectively negotiate terms of supply today, the price, as well as this offset when you announced who will be the winner of this tender? Once again I will stress that the bets you listed are bets in Poland, but they are not Polish bets. I would like to remind you that in the history of the Second Republic there was such a policy that defence capabilities were based on equipment, which was Polish production. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have dealt with several nationalizations of Polish Polish factories, so that it is possible to use Polish equipment 100%, so that the equipment is serviced in Polish factories. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u171	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question which will be a continuation of Mr Skurkiewicz's speech and a question relating to the Radom region. We know that offset is the element that decided that negotiations were concluded because we did not agree with the French side. Is it true that, in the offset package, the Polish party was waiting for the French party to make an investment related to the production of multi-base gunpowder, which is currently purchased from other countries, in a factory in Pawns, which is essential for the production of 120 mm ammunition, which is essential for Leopard tanks? Is it true that the French party did not agree, despite previous assurances, to carry out this project? Is it true that countries with multi-base gunpowder technology do not want to sell such technology? Is it true that the production of multi-base gunpowder would increase our defence? I have one more question, Minister. Is it true that there is information in the media that the French side has in its armed forces only 14 caracalas per few hundred helicopters, which are French weapons? [[Voice from the room: 21.]] This also shows the relationship of France itself with its helicopter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform Club, another speech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You talked about protecting the Polish defence industry, so it is worth asking yourself, because maybe we have other information or we had other teachers on it. Is Łódź Poland? [[I'm sure.]] Is Radom Poland? Is Dęblin Poland? Or is Connecticut Poland? [[Applause]] Because I think it's pretty clear and obvious. [[Marseille is Poland.]] Are you talking about the Polish defence industry? You in the context of this information? Poland's right state - big words, I agree. But a bigger word is a lie. You are using a lie every day, you have been using a lie in this House for six years in the Smolensk case, and now in the Polish army. You can lie like no one can, but today your job is not to lie, today's your job... [[And you were the government spokesperson.]] ...it's the leadership of the Polish army. Today you are responsible for the Ministry of National Defence. That's your role today. Just answer the simple question: Is 6,000. jobs are more or less than zero jobs? Did 50 helicopters... [[300]] Is that more or less than two helicopters? Is 13 billion PLN for investments in Poland more or less than zero PLN for investments in Poland? Is Poland safer because there are no helicopters or not? I think the answer to these questions is pretty obvious. 24 hours after your withdrawal from the tender, you went to Mielec, you did a show conference there to show us which helicopters you would choose. That's just not how it works, because in the background you have... Yeah, who do you have in the background, Minister? Whose business are you in? You've got Mr. Dâmato in the background. What's your relationship with Mr. D. Amato, the lobbyist of the company that you're in 24 hours later? Why didn't you inform the public that you knew that Mr. D?Amato worked for both PZL, the owner of the plant in Łódź and Lockheed Martin? Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Didn't you inform me about this? Why didn't you block that conflict of interest? You're saying you didn't hide it? Your deputy, Minister Kownacki, publicly, when the first cases related to Mr D. Amato appeared, he said that you had no relationship with him. And then it turns out that somewhere on the American side there's information that there is a relationship and that you've been informed about these relationships.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u174	Thank you very much, sir. Another performance...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u175	The public should be clarified here immediately. Just one more sentence, Marshal, last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u176	Last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u177	I'm very happy that you're in this room, not only because we're counting on answers, but also because at the end, I hope, you'll just do the honorable thing and resign. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You wish.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u178	I would like to ask for another speech from Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u179	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Never in such a short time have so few destroyed so much in Polish defence... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...because in fact the discussion about the tender on the helicopter is only a reason for discussing the state and conduct of the Polish anti-defence policy, which is being conducted by the Minister and his subordinate resort. [[Applause]] What you're doing is actually dancing on a line between Giewont and Babia Góra, where every subsequent decision resembles an evolution that will undoubtedly end in a fall from this rope. It is in fact an anti-defence policy, which is characterised by the lack of care for the Polish national interest, the Polish defence, and all that matters is what I can do for myself and my political base. This anti-defence policy is characterized by e.g. The fact that you are trying to convince citizens that the territorial defence you will create will be able to fill the gap that exists on the eastern wall. You want the members of the territorial defence to be cannon-meat, because that is how you must understand the words of the Minister who said at the last session of the subcommittee that this territorial defence will be the first to fight Specnaz. It's really psychic. The fund for technical modernisation is dedicated to the implementation of your own dreams and personal expenses. This cannot end well, it will end tragically for the technical state of the Polish army. Finally, we are faced with a curiosity situation, that Polish defence policy is actually decided by lobbyists, foreign lobbyists. If the Ministry believes that a foreign lobbyist will operate in the interest of [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish and Polish defences, I must say, that such a naive ministry, seems, is not in the world. Finally, I would like to ask you if the real reason for breaking the contract and talking about the delivery of helicopters is not that you want to settle the pre-election accounts with the union bourgeoisie... [[This is an outrage, sir.]] [[A union bourgeoisie. Is there such a thing as union bourgeoisie?]] ...whose country promised certain actions, regardless of the interest of Poland's defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u180	Thank you, sir. Another speech, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I ask you to clarify the concept of the urgent operational need in connection with the purchase of multi-purpose helicopters and the broken negotiations by the Polish government with the French company Airbus Helicopters. We want to know on what legal basis and what decision the Ministry of National Defence has taken to implement the principles of urgent operational need. As far as we know, the proposal is made by the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces' operational commander following a positive opinion from the Chief of Staff. Could the Minister reveal this conclusion to the High House, whether it is positive and what is its content? Is it true, Minister, that the Ministry of National Defence ordered 21 multi-purpose helicopters at PZL Mielec? If so, I wanted to find out what the legal basis of this order is and what possible costs the Polish government will incur to accomplish this task. I would also like to know whether the Ministry of National Defence has made an assessment of the benefits for the economy and the Polish army. Finally, the confusion around multitasking helicopters means one thing: chaos, helplessness and damage to the Polish army. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, is another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u183	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The behaviour of Minister Antoni Macierewicz regarding the Polish army's weapons in helicopters resembles some remake of the film Here we have: caracal down, which is to say in simplification, it has already been crushed by the heel of the shoe. Hence my question: Isn't it more reasonable, Minister, to arm an army through clear, transparent tenders, in which the arguments of the fighting ability of machines will determine the usefulness in the field of combat and use in the Polish army? For you, is the production site or the safety of Poles, the security of our territory and the operational capacity of helicopters during the armed conflict a more important criterion? A policy cannot be pursued where decisions to spend very important public amounts are made under the influence of emotion. Hence my second question to the Minister: Isn't this decision motivated by a desire to bow to its own electorate? [[In front of the Poles.]] When you look at the maps of the support of the PiS electorate, it is some strange miracle that this investment is to be located where it is higher. [[It's illogical.]] You can see that a lot of objective criteria motivate your decisions, so I'm asking you a question. What is to be the safety of Poland: is it only a whim, sees Misiewicz, or is there any other variations that can be replicated here? [[He's wolves.]] I ask you to answer that question, Minister. The public expects you to arm an army that will keep us safe. I hope that the remake of the movie "The Helicopter in Fire," which you keep creating, will slowly end, because here and there the helicopters landed very hard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Buczak, Club Law and Justice. And I thank you for this part of the sitting. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! At the turn of 2014 and 2015, before the Ministry of National Defence decided to allow Caracal helicopter for further research, and practically to choose this helicopter for the Polish army - I stress: before this decision was made - many environments and people involved in the industry, specialists, as well as the trade union Under pressure, the social observer was notified and authorised briefly to observe this invitation to tender. Jerzy Halicki, who is a specialist in the field of air drives, gearboxes. Unfortunately, Mr. Eng. Halicki was withdrawn very quickly as an observer because it was evident that it was simply a sham of transparency of this tender. For further testing, one helicopter was allowed for technical tests and two: one from Mielec, the other from Świdnik, for very minor formal reasons were not allowed for these tests. And that's why I'm asking Minister Antoni Macierewicz. Are there documents that would indicate that the French helicopter met all the requirements that were put in the tender to allow these technical tests? And last but not least, because I hear dreams like that that would make 6,000. jobs that a helicopter would be produced in Łódź. That's what people who don't know the business can say. I come from WSK Rzeszów and these are traditions of many - a long-standing, long-standing Central Industrial District. You can't create a company in a short time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will produce helicopters, these are just fantasies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u186	Thank you. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have listened to Minister Macierewicz's speech and I have the impression that the Minister has been lying to the High House in an absolutely emotional way, with great seriousness and confidence in the voice, half of poverty, lying to society constantly and constantly, for many months... [[Years.]] ...about what we're talking about here today. You are lying about the cancellation of the tender, you are not telling the truth about the offset, you were lying in the election campaign, Minister Kownacki lied... [[The Airbus is just not lying.]] [[Voice from the room: He can lie as much as he can.]] [[And build airports.]] ...at one of the stations, saying that Minister Antoni Macierewicz had nothing in common with American Senator Alfonse D. Amato. I think we heard a lie today, too, from this place, namely the new information that it was the French who withdrew from the tender. It's just that this House hasn't heard any bigger lies. [[You're lying from morning to evening.]] [[They were at Tusk's expo.]] High Izbo! The tender was conducted under the supervision of the services, and you, as an Antoni Macierewicz, had a chance to get acquainted with this at several meetings of the National Defence Committee, which, at your request, were convened, also secret. At that time, we also asked the Member why the management boards of Świdnik or Mielce did not submit offers fulfilling the special conditions of the order, why they did not submit in dollars, why the Black Hawk helicopter was not armed. It was cheap at the time. Why? Why? Why? [[That's how you guys built the bid.]] Today you trampled on all the work of the previous government in terms of the tendering procedure, many months of work. You broke up with our ally at NATO. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh!]] You've also broken up this relationship, although we may hear today that it wasn't broken, but interrupted conversations. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u188	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u189	Ladies and gentlemen! It all works to the detriment of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Brilliant.]] [[No, they're good, they're good.]] [[Voice from the room: Perversions like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u190	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There are many questions on the subject, many questions are still not answered, many questions are left unanswered by the Minister, so I would like to ask you a few questions which I would like to ask in writing. [[Second round of questions.]] I wanted to ask you exactly how much it would cost to buy French caracalas and how much time these payments were spread out. What will really happen now with the money that was originally to be booked for this purpose in the budget in the coming years? What exactly will they be spent on: will they actually go to arm the Polish army, or will the savings made by the Ministry of Finance simply disappear and go to other electoral promises at all unrelated to the defence of our country? Is it true that American black hawks are supposed to replace caracals not only in special forces, but also in transport troops? How many Polish government plans to purchase new helicopters? Will the black hawk manufacturer invest in Poland, on what scale and will we eventually get all the know-how to produce these helicopters personally in Polish factories? [[He invested in Macierewicz.]] I also wanted to ask the Minister - I think this is the main question at the end - what is the legal basis for Black Hawk's choice of helicopters by the Minister, because the public opinion and opposition have not heard of any invitation to tender on this issue at all times, and this legal basis, I think, is the basis from which we should start further discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seems that in recent days we have learned the true reasons for the choice of caracala by the previous government, by the government of the Civic Platform and PSL. It is not some extraordinary quality of this product, it is not new technologies that were supposed to flow to our country, it is not a choice made by soldiers of the Polish army, it is not a choice made due to offsets, on those jobs which supposedly were to be created in Poland. It is a typical political choice in the arrangement with France, which was thus to receive compensation for not delivering Mistral ships to Russia. In itself, it is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen... [[Lying, outrageous words.]] ...in turn, another media information that has emerged on this subject, that these ships have already been sent to Russia through an intermediary, through another country, is a scandal for which you should answer before the court. [[They'll answer.]] One more thing. Don't flatten the discussion about Świdnik and Mielec into these two companies. Other smaller Polish entities cooperate with Mielce. The cluster of Aviation Valley, which is located in Podkarpacie, brings together about 150 Polish companies. They are already cooperating in the production of black hawks, providing components, parts and other elements. If this helicopter is selected, new jobs will be created there, new technologies will be there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u194	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland lost its unique opportunity to become the fifth pillar of the Airbus Group alongside France, Germany, Great Britain and Spain. We have lost the possibility of dynamic development of the Airbus Helicopters Poland project office together with the caracala offset. [[Who wrote this?]] It was in Poland, in Łódź, that ideas were to be created. Here development work was to be carried out in cooperation with Polish technical universities, institutes, laboratories and then implemented to the industry with the participation of Polish sub-systems suppliers. 12 plants in Poland could produce parts for helicopters. I will mention only a few: in Radom electromechanics, in Dęblin simulators, in Wrocław hydraulic systems, in Lublin shafts and mechanical components, in Rzeszów transmissions and finally assembly line in Łódź. It was for us to manage the Clean Sky 2 project, a fast hybrid helicopter, and for us to carry out development work on the certified equipment of this helicopter. [[They were supposed to be done, but they're not anymore.]] Poland was to be the core of the innovative solutions of Airbus Polska. This isn't information sucked out of your finger. In September this year, a delegation of the Polish-French Parliamentary Group, including Members of the Polish Parliamentary Group, hosted French MPs in France. On September 30, we paid a visit to the Airbus headquarters in Toulouse. He accepted us, among others. Vice President for the Research and Development of Airbus Helicopters... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...to our surprise the Pole, Tomasz Krysiński, who knows everything about helicopters. He's the main creator of the fastest helicopter in the world... [[Voice from the room: Who else was there?]] ...was also working on a caracal and a hitting tiger. 30 years ago, he graduated from Łódź University of Technology and was the first engineer to enter Airbus Helicopters from behind the Iron Curtain. He was optimistic about the fact that he would move this technical thought to Poland and here innovative workplaces will be created. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One irresponsible government movement destroyed this huge opportunity. [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] As President of the Polish-French Parliamentary Group, in the language of diplomacy, I should express my regret, but the government's actions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u196	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u197	...have nothing to do with diplomacy. I express my outrage about the decision... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, movement in the room, applause]] [[Voices from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal...]] [[There was an extended period.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u198	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Kryj has the floor. Just one more second, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very long discussion, and if you interfere, I will shorten this discussion so that I ask you very much to allow your speeches and to watch the time of the Members present. Thank you in advance. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The selection of Airbus Helicopters' offer to purchase a Caracal helicopter for the Polish army from the beginning aroused the surprise of many specialists who pointed out the very high price of this machine. This issue was raised, among others. aviation expert Major Michael Fiszer. There were also those who maliciously said that since we could build the world's most expensive stadiums, very expensive or super expensive highways, we could also buy the most expensive Caracal helicopters in the world, and these helicopters are said to be constructions from the late 1960s. You have also expressed your doubts, Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek, who said, quote: I do not imagine that France, the United States or any other country that produces two good helicopters that buys the whole world in its territory will decide to buy other machines. Today, the key issue raised by many is the offset issue and the result of the offset agreement of new jobs, which are to be created by a huge number of people. This also applies to Łódź. When the assembly line is not installed here, in short, the assembly, the Caracal helicopters, the critics of the end of these talks raise what a great loss this is for the economy. I would like to ask: How far is it possible to locate in Łódź assembly lines of the American concern Bell Helicopter, which also proposes the installation in Łódź of AH-1 Viper assault helicopters and multitasking UH-1Y Venom? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Offset.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u200	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As PiS keeps his promises, how it looks, we see. The Minister of National Defence was not to be Macierewicz. That's what it's like to make promises. [[Voices from the hall: Oh, dear.]] I would like the Minister to refer to those texts that appear in the press: Working with the MON lobbyist, the former US senator is connected to the Russian and Italian mafia. [[What press?]] Ukrainian partner Macierewicz from Zaporozhye raises doubts about his relationship with Russia and the ownership structure of this company from Zaporozhye. It is so strange that the beneficiary of the long-term, even by definition of anti-Russian, deeply patriotic activity of Macierewicz is Russia, which means that either Macierewicz is so clumsy, or so clever, and that either this happens by accident or not. One thing is certain: all paths of Antoni Macierewicz lead to Moscow. Or the title: the Russian loop around Macierewicz. [[What newspaper?]] [[What newspaper?]] [[Gazeta Polska.]] Minister, it is time for you to speak on this matter. Interestingly, the agreement with this American lobbyist, which also works for the company that manufactures helicopters, signed on your behalf, Minister Radosław Obolewski, former head of the Polish Gazeta Club in Łomianki and the owner of the pharmacy, who employed Mr Bartłomiej Misiewicz's parcel carrier... [[Applause]] [[Aronia Pharmacy, it's important.]] ...at the pharmacy in Łomianki. And now I have a question about Mr. Misiewicz, because it turns out that this Misiewicz still works in the MON office. [[Very good.]] And it turns out that it acts as a media disinformation analyzer for state security. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the hall: Is there such a profession?]] And you are Misiewicz and Macierewicz. [[It's a good thing he's not flying caracals.]] The question is, how do you sit here, is Misiewicz replacing you in the MON today? [[After your speech, he'll have a job.]] Minister, Misiewicz wasn't there when boomerang missed you and said it publicly: I miss Macierewicz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, that's great. And the longing was soothed. He went back to MON. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Time is up, Member.]] Minister, you are a Member of the Łódź Voivodeship. Where are these jobs for young engineers from Opoczno, Piotrkow, Radomska, Bełchatów, who are your constituents? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u202	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government of Law and Justice defends the interests of Poland and it does not like the Civic Platform. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Why? Doesn't the Civic Platform want to defend Poland's interests? [[But not Russia.]] How did you negotiate with France when it turned out that Caracal helicopters had less technical capabilities than expected, and they cost more? Over 13 billion for 50 machines. Minister, why the unit price of the helicopter Caracal is nearly PLN 270 million? Are there other cases of negotiation of such high prices in the world? Another question. At the final stage of discussions already conducted by Law and Justice, what conditions did France agree to, and what was the Polish side? Did the French party lower the unit price for the helicopter in relation to the price negotiated by the PO-PSL government? And one more question, Minister. Do you have any knowledge of recent air accidents involving Caracal helicopters, which have occurred, among others. in Norway... [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God.]] ...and what caused these accidents? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: There would be no Smolensk disaster...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u204	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I must correct my younger colleague, who said that Minister Macierewicz has been lying for six years. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Macierewicz has been lying for 25 years. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] He himself recalled his great experience here that he has been since 1991... Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, it is unfortunate that I am with the Minister and I am listening to all his lies. [[All you have to do is file a ticket.]] So what's going on right now shouldn't surprise me. First he found the agents, accused Professor Chrzanowski, Marshal of the Sejm, then so healed the military forces that he would eliminate them, then disperse the artificial fog and make two bombs, and blow up the plane... [[Voice from the room: Don't exaggerate.]] [[Voice from the room: Overdo it, overdo it.]] ...and now it's blowing up... [[We'll listen to what was in there.]] And that would be good if the gentlemen were quiet, especially you, buddy, would be very good. [[...1968]] Darling, you didn't even... [[What did you write in 1968?]] What did I write in 1968? That Zaremba would come here and, unfortunately, the Polish Parliament would sit here. [[Applause]] Back to the caracala theme. Here all these subjects were, the questions were asked, but I still don't know, and I hope... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You guys respect each other.]] ...that the Minister will tell me how much the Mielec helicopters cost, and on what basis are you saying there wasn't supposed to be 6,000. jobs if...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u207	I have to finish my sentence, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u208	No, my fellow Member, thank you very much. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, would you like me to conclude the debate? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion!]] [[There's a debate, man. You're here for citizens' money, not to discipline Members.]] I asked you to watch your time. We've been through a lot of time. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You didn't need to get into a discussion with the O.R. We've been through a lot of time. I asked you to watch your time. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u209	Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u210	Madam President, you are prolonging the debate unnecessarily. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You didn't respond to what the PiS Member was doing.]] Do you want everyone to speak or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u211	I want to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u212	But you're out of time. [[Voice from the Chamber: Step down from the speaker.]] You're an experienced Member of the Commission, so please watch your time. You shouldn't have come in... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want everyone to ask questions, I'll allow it on condition... [[To the ethics committee.]] ...that you will not interfere with the deliberations. You're welcome, sir. [[To quote the classic, what's wrong with you, man?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the press we can read the statement by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who said, quote: We want the equipment for the Polish army to be produced in Poland by Polish workers, so that companies that operate in Poland can equip the Polish army. So you place the state on Polish employees and Polish factories. Therefore, I wanted to ask the question: Why did you reject the proposal of Airbus, which offered to create an additional new production facility in which complex components of rotors and gearboxes for Airbus helicopters would be created? These are many new jobs, including for Radom, Mr Skurkiewicz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The Member himself does not believe what he says.]] [[He's telling jokes.]] Why didn't you agree to an offer that would transform military aviation companies into a state-owned company in which Poland's share would be 90% ? [[Voice from the room: 'Cause this is...]] This label could produce helicopters not only under this contract. That would secure the national business. 100% shares in PZL Mielec are owned by American company Sikorsky... [[Voice from the room: Platforms.]] ...and in PZL Świdnik - Leonardo, in turn, is an Italian company. They're foreign companies, which means we're missing the truth here. I have one more question. MON announced the purchase of helicopters for the army freehand at the Black Hawk plant. It is well known that Americans will not sell Polish specialized helicopters fully equipped, because such purchase requires the approval of the Congress. I have a question: How long will the negotiations last? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Are we gonna be able to buy those full-armed helicopters? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u215	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish army does not yet have modern assault helicopters. Their function is in the absence of an alternative to MI-24 helicopters. The army also needs transport helicopters. Therefore, the Polish army should be enriched with assault helicopters and multi-purpose helicopters. In the face of the recent failure to tender for caracales, it will be appropriate to meet the identified needs of our army based on domestic production, which will ensure the supply, further development of the aviation industry, as well as the safety of the service in the event of war. As regards the technical and combat requirements for helicopters on the battlefield, it must be stated that they should take into account the needs of our army. However, the actual usefulness of helicopters in the event of an armed conflict should be taken into account in order to ensure the security of soldiers, which should be a priority, further firepower and appropriate weapons to support the infantry battlefield. Such analysis should be based on the experience of the missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and Chad. In view of the need to renew the Polish army's helicopter fleet, there is a legitimate need for new models to meet the needs of the modern battlefield and to become independent from foreign suppliers. The current shape of the helicopter park of our army is a reflection of both the time of the People's Polish Army as well as activities after 1989. Analysis of the needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in the field of helicopters should be carried out again to arm our Polish army and minimize disparities in the possession of a helicopter base in relation to other countries. It should also be stressed that Poland, as a country with large aviation traditions, should strive to rebuild its domestic aviation industry, among others. based on the PZL Świdnik communication equipment factory in Świdnik. Is that possible, Minister? Will that be possible? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u216	Thank you. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question on behalf of the people of Radom, a city where, according to the documents submitted by Airbus, which are publicly available, 250 jobs were to be created in connection with the offset agreement. I do not need, I hope, to explain to you the needs of such an investment in Radom, or its impact on the development of our city. [[Voice from the room: Isn't it 300? And where's 6,000??]] So does the Polish government, Minister, want to create jobs not in Radom, not in Łódź, not in Dęblin, but in the United States? It's a shame the Minister won't listen to me. [[In what United States?]] According to what you're doing, Radom's not gonna have these jobs, there's not gonna be an airfield because you broke the negotiations. I merely, Mr Skurkiewicz - and here I am addressing Mr Skurkiewicz - from my land, the Radom land, I will direct these words to you. I'm surprised you're on the other side of the force. Thank you very much, and I think you're gonna fight in your chest for what you're doing. [[Mr Skurkiewicz is on the right side of the force.]] Sir, if you want to discuss this, please don't disturb others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u218	Thank you very much, ma'am. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For several days now, we have been hearing new information concerning the fitting of the Polish army. First we learned that the contract was broken for production and delivery to the Polish army of French caracala, then we learned that in production and delivery it would be replaced by a completely different American company, then we learned that there would be a joint investment and production of Polish-Ukrainian helicopters, and at the end we learned that there is an urgent need to equip the Polish army and that new helicopters must be delivered immediately. I have a question: Where did this urgent need come from in a dozen days? I mean, the new minister's been here a year. It's not 1 month, 2, 3, it's just this year of government. I have a question: Why is the Polish army weakening? Is this a purposeful action, and to whom should it serve? And now for a specific financial question and I ask you to answer in writing. In the budget was secured PLN 13.5 billion for the implementation of the contract for the new Caracal helicopters. It was supposed to be an offset agreement, it practically ensured the return of this investment over a period of several years through the creation of jobs, investments in Poland. Information, please. What will the funds that have been secured be earmarked for? What sections of the Polish army will be strengthened by these funds? Is this gonna be an accessory to territorial defence or some other government activity we don't know about yet? And I ask that this reply be received in writing. It's very interesting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] our constituents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Our ambition should be the Polish industry, its reconstruction. This assumes a programme of responsible development, which was prepared by your Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki. It is very good that the Polish government is determined to make purchases for the Polish army in Polish factories, in companies which are in Poland, where Polish workers work, where they are being discharged... [[And what kind of work do they work in Lodz? Aren't Polish workers working?]] ...in Poland taxes. It's not true that the French company... [[Boatmen.]] ...would create 6,000 in Poland. jobs. The Minister, present in the Chamber, denied this, the Ministry of Development. Meanwhile, we still hear lies, lies on the part of the Civic Platform, lies on the part of the opposition. Which, in return, he's proposing... [[You lied this morning, you lie now, you lie.]] ...opposition? What's the future for betting in Świdnik, for... [[Voice from the hall: French people lie too.]] ...the Mielec plant? Why do you not care so much about jobs here, in Poland, in Świdnik, in Mielec, and so... [[And Łódź is Poland? And Dęblin is Poland?]] ...are you fighting very hard for jobs in France? [[The Americans are already happy, great.]] Economic patriotism - this should primarily guide Members and Members of the opposition. It was also weird to do the same thing. First... [[And Connecticut? What about Central Murphy?]] ...we were gonna buy 20 helicopters, then it turns out we're gonna buy 50, then we're gonna buy 70, but at a different price. How is it possible that during the negotiations, the price for the helicopter increased? Are there at all cases where the price is increasing in the course of the negotiations and how are these negotiations being conducted? Once again, economic patriotism... [[That's bullshit, that's bullshit.]] ...that's what we should take care of and... [[Do you know Amato?]] ...that's what we should take care of. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u222	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I leave the matter of expertise to my colleagues from the National Defence Committee. [[Voice from the hall: When you go out to the platform, you need to know something.]] I want to ask you a completely different question. The Minister was kind to say that you are not ashamed of your electoral promises, because you are doing this for Poland, for Poles, for Polish companies. Therefore, the question will be very simple. Is it true that Świdnik is a 100% foreign capital company, that the same situation is, Minister, with Mielce? Recently, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, while in Mielec, said that Mielecki has a foreign owner, but he has a smart policy, employs Poles and pays taxes. In this regard, could it be assumed a priori that hypothetically the company which was to be established in Łódź would not pay taxes that Poles would not be employed in it, and if already they were Poles of a worse sort? I ignore the fact that the company of Łódź plants in 90% was to constitute the capital of the State Treasury. And I'm gonna talk about this completely colloquially from another barrel, Minister. Today we hear from Prime Minister Morawiecki's information that the 2017 budget is his great love. Perhaps this is a conspiracy - but it is not such a foreign term in this Chamber - perhaps for this love, because often for love you have to pay with big money, you have to pay - do you consider it - perhaps you will need 1 caracal, 2 or 3 to add to this budget love of the Prime Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Fantastic!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u224	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u225	Continuing my predecessor's statement: Love costs money, and there is no doubt about it. Minister! I would like to ask: After such projects as: ORP.Ślązak or the Polish hull of the Polish corveta, after the purchase of the German U-Boots of the Kobben class or after the purchase of the Bryza M28 aircraft, after the success of the purchase of the F-16 and offset related to these aircraft, with the cost of Aeronautics drones, can you indicate in relation to the last term such a solution which contributed to the modernisation of the Polish economy and the restructuring of specific enterprises? If possible, he would ask for this indication, for example, on the basis of the Gliwice Mechanical Plant Bumar, which was actually saved in December last year in the so-called process. Leopard's polonization, the polonization that our predecessors were unable to carry out. Therefore, I would return to the question of choosing a contractor from my own hands. We remember, I hope, what happened when it comes to betting No. 2 in Bydgoszcz, where these bets could be used in terms of F-16 offset. What happened, we all know. Yeah, love costs money. And I believe that more jobs in Polish hands, so to speak, and more Polish taxes, taxes that affect the Treasury, are extremely important matters for generating what we all call the defence strategy of the Polish state. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u226	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u227	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a lot of questions. Please respond in writing. Is the purchase of Black Hawk machines in place of caracala technically proportionate? These are machines of a completely different type with a completely different combat and tactical capability. [[Voice from the room: Much better.]] I'm asking about technical solutions, the possibility of land and sea activities. I'm asking about the equipment, and most of all, I'm asking about the weapons. Please provide documents justifying new orders and planned purchases, in particular show the documents relating to urgent operational needs. And I have a question: which NATO army has purchased Black Hawk or Augusta helicopters? I'll say no. How many consents and at what time did he spend the United States Congress on the sale of Black Hawk helicopters with full weapons and equipment? I'm asking '90s, not '70s? Will you resign if the offer which the Polish army and the Polish industry will receive as a result of the current procedure is worse than the offer from Airbus concerning caracala? During the election campaign, you marked that you would defend Polish interests, Polish capital, support the Polish army. What are you doing today? You don't see it in your actions at all. What's the reason you want to let foreign companies make money, foreign capital? Or do you still owe something to those companies you sold to Polish aviation when you were in charge? Have these decisions ever been influenced by your co-workers' cooperation with other companies? Prime Minister! Mr. President! What did Polish aviation do to you that you were doing everything you could not develop it? Not only did you sell them, but today you want to get Polish taxpayers' money out of the country. Plus, you're cheating the Łódźman, telling them they're gonna have a job, that the Łódź plant will be repairing old helicopters. The boat was supposed to get $3,000. jobs. That was a statement from Airbus. We're waiting for 2900. [[Yeah, fairy tales.]] You don't have much time. By breaking the offset agreement... Boat, Łódź, Łódź University of Technology, all expect from you a suitable project, jobs, modern technologies, new influences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are your governments. You can do it, you can destroy an army, you can destroy Poland, you can fight us with all of us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u228	Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to congratulate the marshal on his good conduct, consistent. That's the spirit. [[The kiss of death.]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] High Izbo! I will refer to the statements made by Members of the Civic Platform. The word "love" often sounded out of your mouth here. Remember one thing, that there was often one speaking from this speaker who spoke about love much, much, but as it turned out, this love was dishonest also towards you, because it left you, left you alone. You can't recover. Good, 'cause that's the kind of love you deserve. [[Oh, dear, we're gonna cry, sir, we're gonna cry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to speak honestly about what is happening in the Polish army, perhaps we should address issues that are unfortunately secret... [[Maybe Misiewicz would be better off.]] ... because we talked very much about what was going on under the Civic Platform, at the secret meetings of the National Defence Committee. [[You didn't understand.]] It's weird that you guys weren't on the Civic Platform at these committees. [[I know, I won't.]] Why? Because we could just hear there how much we should be ashamed of you and how, unfortunately, our homeland was vulnerable under your rule. [[Applause]] And you all know that... [[You listen and you don't understand.]] ...that I can't talk about it here because we have a business secret. [[Shocked and involved.]] To talk about what's going on in the O.R. today... There is a simple question: Where is Minister Semoniak today, where is he? He didn't even come here because maybe he's the only man in some way honorable in yours... because he's just ashamed of it. [[Ho, ho, ho.]] You guys came here to collect beatings for what this government of yours did with the Polish army. [[You guys came here to pick up the punches.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll live, we'll see.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's just a shame how you're acting today. Talking about such an important matter... [[Do you always behave so culturally, sir?]] ...you make such bullshit arguments. And last but not least. [[That's how you always act.]] Mr Skurkiewicz, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I feel sorry for you for having such Members from the Civic Platform in your region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u230	Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u231	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Both the president of Airbus Helicopters and the opposition in Poland emphasized that it was the Polish side that broke the negotiations, while representatives of the Polish government claim that the negotiations only ended when their continuation was without object. I would very much ask you to explain these discrepancies. Second question. Is it possible that France, which produces Mirage aircraft, would buy an F-16? No French politician can dream of this in any dream. Why did Polish politicians want to agree to the production of helicopters not in Poland and not by Polish workers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u232	Is Mr Stefan Strzłkowski here? There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice have the floor. [[There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u233	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not understand this crying and lamentation performed by colleagues from the Civic Platform. I think it's caused by the fact that many of you were connected to the Airbus, and I'm not going to name names, and you know them very well. [[Please, name it.]] [[Name it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are reading what one or two rightly known will write for you... [[Voice from the gym: You have to give it to the D.A.'s office.]] ...and the newspapers you read, their names will not be mentioned by respect for my colleagues in Law and Justice. [[Applause]] ... [[Gazeta Polska, in the Network, in Polityka, in Economy.]] ...where the truth is given in your release, and we know that there are only lies. [[Skoki.pl, PiS.pl, Indie.pl.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you regret that the caracali will not be here. It doesn't bother you that Kuwait, a wealthy country, bought them much cheaper than it was offered to us, Poles, that Brazil was buying them... [[We need to get to know each other.]] ...respectful country, for much less money... [[Voice from the room: You have to read why.]] ...than we've been offered, the Poles. That doesn't bother you. Minister, I have this question: What further plans do we have for helicopters for the Polish Army... [[With a lobbyist.]] ...if you'd like to say, because today, in this confusion, the attack on the Minister, your colleagues, we'd like to hear it clearly so that this can reach this side of the Parliamentary benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u234	Thank you. Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Last week I was at a meeting, early this week, with the sovereign and the sovereign asked me to ask you a question, and today I repeat it, and I quote, are you really a Russian agent, or are you a Putin agent? Such questions are asked by the sovereign, Minister, because the actions you are taking are really for Russia's sake. [[Listen up, to the board with this.]] Is it true that you prefer it to be Americans... [[It's out of bounds.]] ...from one of the states had a job than the Poles had one? Is it true that you translate your private interests, knowledge over the welfare of the Republic of Poland? Is it true that you would rather have zero money in favour of Poland than have contacts with your Pisiewicz? I have one more question: Minister, when will you resign because you are not worthy of this function? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I want you to file an MP's ticket.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u236	You have the floor of Artur Szałabawka, Law and Justice. [[Arthur Arthur's gonna make this happen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very sorry, Minister, that you have to listen to such insolent, rude... [[Poor thing.]] ...expressions, but we're used to it and we can do it. I'll tell you this way, I'm also talking to the soldiers, with the sovereign, with a lot of lower-level soldiers, middle-level soldiers, and they're asking me to send you a message from the Civic Platform: [[Applause]] Because as much bad as you did for the Polish army, nobody did. You wanted to demote her, and you almost succeeded, no one did. This is the message of Polish soldiers... [[Keep quiet, that's the message.]] ...I talk to them very often: Shame on you... [[We're talking, too. That's not what they're telling us.]] ...extremely ashamed of yourselves. At the moment morale is growing, morale in the army is growing, soldiers say their situation is changing dramatically. [[Since the lobbyists came in.]] I know it's not the highest general you've ever called, but those soldiers downstairs, those soldiers you've been trying to throw on the street after 10 years who went through Afghanistan, who went through Iraq, you've been trying to throw them out on the street to power up the mob ranks. [[How about a question?]] Minister, I have two specific questions. What military experts have decided to choose the caracalas they were, because all the soldiers I talk to have said that this multitasking, very expensive helicopter is very unfavorable for us. That's why I'm asking, Minister, what kind of specialists were they? [[Stop talking to the territorial defense.]] If you don't mind, I'd like to hear it. Second question: Why are these caracals so expensive? 270 million PLN per piece for a universal chopper of the old type is a huge price. I'd like one more thing to compare... [[Voice from the room: You have no idea what you're talking about.]] ...prices [[♪ The bell ♪]] in different countries of the world, because this price is very high for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u238	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr. Krzysztof Zaremba, Law and Justice. [[Christopher, tell them the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u239	Good call, Minister, [[Applause]] We should thank you for not choosing the old French junk. As with multi-tasking fighters, they didn't offer us Rafal, they offered us old Mirage 2000. [[Rafal?]] Rafale is a French multi-tasking fighter. [[And what is Rafal?]] That's not what they offered us back then. [[Raphael maybe.]] First of all, it would be worth saying that the bets in Mielec and Świdnik wouldn't exist if it weren't for privatisation, and it's a model made by my countryman, you can say... [[They're privatized, but they're still state-owned.]] ...the current Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, then head of the ARP, Paweł Brzezicki; these plants would not be there. [[He sold one.]] [[A voice from the hall: But he did not sell others.]] I have a question, Minister, is it true that the technical, basic difference between Caracal and Black Hawk, for example, lies in the security of soldiers and that in the event of an emergency landing with 30 m without authorization, it withstands suspension, and the engines in Black Hawk do not fall in and crush the soldiers who are there. Is it true, Minister, that Turkey bought 109 instead of 50 pieces for the same money, black hawks, not caracali? You have to be a complete imbecile... [[Oh, you have to be, you have to be.]] ...to make such transactions as you have made. [[I was fucking with you.]] Because the truth is simple. The German vote behind Tusk, behind his work, was the liquidation of shipyards, industry in the west of Poland... [[Where is this Rafael?]] ...and French were caracales. There is one more thing, and it is the committee of inquiry prepared for you on this matter that will explain. It goes on, among other things. It's about what happened to the mistrals. The price for the mistral was, and it can be seen clearly by the amounts included in the price of the caracala. With regard to Mr Dunin, Mr Dunin, on behalf of the Group of Members of the Law and Justice, we will refer the matter to Minister Macierewicz on his behalf. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the ethics committee. [[Applause]] [[In the name of the sovereign.]] And I will say this to Mrs Katarasińska: Someone who wrote mean anti-Semitic pusques in 1968...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u240	Okay, thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u241	...and for 10 years he was a journalist in the Polish People's Republic, he has no honorable ability. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You can't insult me. [[Applause]] [[Someone who's been on the Platform is acting so nasty.]] [[So, what, he's not going to be Minister anymore?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u242	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Czesław Mrocek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Does anyone in this room today know how many helicopters the Polish Ministry of National Defence intends to acquire? Whether those six of October 10 or those eight announced on October 11 or the Polish-Ukrainian ones or those 21 announced Maybe on October 13th, or the few announced on October 18th as part of an urgent operational need? Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important modernization programs of the Polish Armed Forces falls in front of our eyes, a helicopter program involving the exchange of dozens of helicopters. not because we wanted to get dozens of helicopters, just because about 50 helicopters that were exploited will come out of use - out of the army - and there will be nothing to replace them. Your conduct and our conduct are two worlds. I'll describe how it works. We had a bid, needs were defined by the military, and there were no lobbyists. [[Set up under the French.]] And with you, the procedure is unclear, the business is unclear. [[Chaos!]] American and other lobbyists influence this procedure. Do you know why on October 18th, this story was finally invented about the urgent need for surgery? Because you have to create documents for the DA and CBA to come. [[Scandal!]] You're making documents for the DA's coming. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Are you afraid of something?]] We're not afraid right now, and you're about to have a test because we're filing for a committee of inquiry. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You want to explain our bid? In this request for a committee of inquiry, we also include our conduct. We say: let us clarify our actions and explain what is now being done. [[Applause]] Two worlds, two worlds, cancel the tender, split the order and order after consideration. The departure of the Prime Minister of the Polish Government is probably the first story after 1989, so that the Polish Prime Minister would drive around the warehouses of foreign companies... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir! Scandal!]] [[Voice from the hall: What aliens?]] ...instead of guarding the interests of the Armed Forces. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And she went to Ladybug...]] [[But it was Kaczynski who went to Ladybugka.]] There comes a man who acts as minister against such charges and attacks those who present these allegations to the public. The devil's wearing an ornament and his tail is ringing at Mass. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm asking when there will be helicopters to replace those coming out of the Armed Forces since 2017. When are you gonna get that? [[If they do, that's enough.]] On the occasion of the request for cancellation of Minister Macierewicz I personally said this: An incredibly serious man takes an extremely serious position. [[Applause]] He comes out very often in the Seym and says to the public: I know, I will not say - he has zealous followers - I am shocked. [[You should be kissing him on his hands.]] The fact that you're shocked is my confirmation. The effects of this shock are all seen very often. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Please stop.]] We have requested this information and we are taking part in it today, because the interests of the Polish Army... All of Poland and Poles need to know how you implement, how you ensure the safety of our country. We will conclude, as I say, the appointment of a committee of inquiry. We applied to the D.A.'s office. [[Oh, yeah, I'm sure it'll come in handy.]] We were expecting information, not taking responsibility off our hands. It's your thing that you announce a lot, and you can't take responsibility for your actions later. And that's the way it is in every field you guys do. You're a party of total irresponsibleness. If you guys aren't getting anything out of your promises, then speaking of election promises... [[The voice from the hall: You completely left the army, you totally left the army.]] [[What condition did you leave the army in?]] ...then you say, "It's okay that we haven't fulfilled those promises, we're going to make new promises, even prettier than the promises we've made so far. [[Applause]] [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Marshal, why aren't you responding?]] One piece of information. Today Poland was waiting for one piece of information as part of Minister Macierewicz's reply: I resign, what I did about these helicopters is unacceptable. And if not Minister Macierewicz, the Prime Minister of the Polish Government should do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u244	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal, in correction mode.]] [[Voice from the room: corrected, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The honourable Member has been mentioned.]] In a moment, I asked the Minister, Madam Member. [[Are you a licensed marshal or a normal marshal?]] Minister, you're welcome. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Will you watch your time, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You will allow the marshal to allow the High House not to deal with this avalanche of slander, lies, insinuation. You, Mr Plocke, want to laugh about this. [[No, we're crying, Minister.]] I will tell you and your colleagues: this avalanche has been falling on me since 1968, since your colleague served as a journalist for the Soviets in Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Since that year, thousands of students and workers have gone to prison as a result of such journalists. [[Applause]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: We will meet in court.]] [[Voice from the room: Minister, shame.]] This is the year I've been being insinuated and bullied. I could say, if it weren't for the fact that you should be a member of the free Sejm, that I'm used to people like that. Now, if you don't mind, Marshal... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, you're supposed to react. That's not information.]] [[Sit down.]] ...in view of what has been said here, one point first. [[Is that how you talk to our foreign partners?]] [[He's not talking.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As always, in this debate, the truth has been told by Members of the Civic Platform at least once. I'd like to say right away that I value you very much. Airbus Helicopters, Airbus, their capabilities, will certainly work well with Airbus. But one thing I can say with absolute certainty, answering the Civic Platform to its hopes. You said yes, Mrs Rutkowska said this: Poland has lost its chance to become the fifth pillar of Airbus. I answer: Poland will not be any pillar of any foreign company, especially the fifth. None. [[Applause]] [[Connecticut.]] And that's what makes the difference between our thinking and your thinking about both independence and the arms industry. And I want it to be clear once and for all. [[But your power is not forever, fortunately.]] I will now answer Mr Jakub's question about the trade in mistrals and the relationship between this financial operation and perhaps the Caracala case. It is true that the mistrals were sold to Egypt. And it is true that in recent days they have been de facto transferred to the Russian Federation for one dollar. This operation actually took place, and the ties with the caracals and your actions will be explained by the Central Bureau Anti-corruption soon. [[Applause]] [[It's the committee of inquiry.]] [[It's the committee of inquiry.]] And I assure you, this will not be a pleasant explanation for you, because... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...has already announced what was going on in this case, Mr. Aleksander Kwasniewski. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much. Nice to meet you. Thank you.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Voice from the room: How do you know?]] [[Voice from the room: And all the papers have already been forged?]] We are therefore clear about this. As for the legal basis for my application to three producers: Mielec, Świdnik and Airbus... [[To the Americans, to the British...]] ...the legal basis is the urgent operational need reported by the operational commander of the Polish Army. [[Voice from the O.R.: With what operation?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: When was it announced? Data.]] I inform you once again that the official document of the Polish Army Operations Commander has entered the Minister of Defence indicating that there is an urgent operational need to acquire helicopters, helicopters... [[Wasn't there before?]] ...for the Polish army, especially for Polish special forces. [[And when he went to Mielec before that, wasn't it?]] [[Voice from the room: No equipment.]] Mr. Marshal, I have a request. Because you're taking a lot of time, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u246	Yes, Minister, thank you very much. I ask you not to make it difficult to speak, not to shout, especially Mr Dunin. [[Voice from the room: Now, is everything all right, Marshal? Great.]] [[Room voice: Bravo, great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u247	Mr Marshal, I would like to say this: I assure you, Mr Marshal and the High House, that I will manage and will be very happy to respond also to the wiser and dumber, more dumb statements of Members of the Civic Platform... [[But you don't answer at all, that's the problem.]] ...I would only ask for an extension of that time, those 10 minutes, so that I could have an opportunity to answer... [[Voice from the Chamber: Then you will only answer to the Members of the PiS.]] ...and then I'd love to. So the legal basis is clearly defined in Polish legislation. The operational commander asked the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Defence agreed to this request because he actually accepted this legal basis. [[Voice in the O.R.: In relation to what operation?]] [[What kind of surgery is this?]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: What is the operation?]] It fits into what is actually happening in Poland. I also want to explain immediately that repeating by you that we are dealing only with the order in Mielec, only with the order of black hawks, is not true. [[Please give us the real information.]] [[That's interesting.]] The Ministry of National Defence will continue throughout the process of equiping the Polish Armed Forces with at least 50 helicopters to make each of the factories producing in Poland. [[A new number.]] ...could provide the necessary equipment to the Armed Forces. [[Applause]] [[Is this about the factories?]] Because, as rightly indicated here, so-called. A single platform is only possible in the dreams of the Civic Platform, which has been mixed up... [[The offer is complex.]] ...his own political identity with the needs of the Polish army. That's not true. [[Applause]] [[Maybe the motolotni manufacturer will be included, too?]] Other needs are for troops, for helicopters working in special forces, others are related to transport needs, others are related to strikes, others finally fighting submarines and marine rescue. And that's pretty obvious. [[Applause]] So each of these plants will be able to participate not only in this tender but also in the equipment of Polish forces. Also Falcon/Falcon... [[Your contacts, Minister.]] ...also Deaf... [[What about Zaporozhye?]] ...because it's a good, really good chopper and there's no reason to ignore it. I would also like to make it clear that it is not true that any jobs in Radom were taken into account under this invitation to tender and under this offset. Unfortunately, they weren't taken. And they should be taken in full agreement on that. [[They were taken.]] But... Well, that's a lie. It's just that. [[Voice from the room: ex!]] As part of this invitation to tender for helicopters in the documentation... [[That's a good summation.]] ...there's not a word about jobs for Radom, not at all. [[A voice from the Offset Room, but outside of the Offset...]] And there's not a word about $6,000. jobs. [[Voice from the courtroom: Read the Airbus announcement.]] It's just your invention and your lie. So don't lie to the Polish people. [[Voice from the room: What do you know about how you didn't participate?]] As far as helicopter procurement is concerned, they shall in total cover at least 50 helicopters by 2022. We do not close this size, but at least 50 helicopters will be delivered to the Polish army. There's no doubt about that. [[Minister, what about Dâmato?]] The first helicopters will be delivered in 2018. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you seem to be most interested in the Armed Forces... [[What about Dâmato? What's the mysterious part?]] ...it seems that you said that the most important thing is the Polish army, so let me answer about it. [[Applause]] [[D'Amato?]] You will have full information not only about Senator D. Amato, but also about Minister Kupiecki... [[Good.]] ...who paid 200,000. Dollars, ma'am, for lobbying in Washington, and maybe for armaments... [[Applause]] [[In writing, please. Minister, I'd like to write to you in writing about D. Amato.]] ...and maybe you can explain what was going on and what kind of armament cases it was because it was in your government that Mr. Kupiecki paid 200,000. Dollars. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[But D'Amato...]] And now... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Do you know what a conflict of interest is?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u248	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u249	May I, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u250	...I don't like to prolong my time, but I'm extending the time of the Minister by two minutes because of the shouting. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Tomczyk, Mrs. Radziszewska... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: That's weird.]] ...Mrs. German etc. [[Bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't make the debate difficult, okay? [[I'll see you tonight.]] You're welcome, Minister, to proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u251	I also want to make it clear that... [[But I don't get any more about Dâmato?]] [[For the rest of your term.]] ...in letters addressed to all three producers - and this is what I say to the Łódź people in particular - in letters addressed to all three producers it was clear that the condition for their possible purchase is the location of the service centre in Łódź. Each producer received this as a condition for participation in conversations. And one last thing. In the case of Mielec and our meeting - you say that we met with the Prime Minister in the assembly room, right? No, otherwise, with magazines. [[In the warehouse.]] We met there with Polish crews, Polish workers, Polish workers... [[Applause]] [[In those magazines?]] ...one of the most educated... [[The planes were American.]] ...and the best prepared in the world... [[No one's denying it.]] ...for the production of helicopters. With the crews that we really... [[Along with Zaporozhye?]] ...is jealous of the whole world. You people call these people... How, I'm sorry? [[Voices from the hall: Warehouses.]] Warehouses. I'm sure it's because your spokesperson was who? Who was he with the German entrepreneur? Who was he? He was in the German businessman's office with a cut. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's what Mr. Gras was. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[What about Dâmato? What about Dâmato?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u252	Thank you, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Mr Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasinska: Mr Marshal, correction.]] [[Correct, Marshal!]] [[A voice from the courtroom: scandal, marshal. There was no answer, Minister.]] I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 07 hours 14 min 13]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the budget law for 2016 (prints Nos 916 and 945). I ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to submit a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, I come forward on a formal matter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a great honour and responsibility to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government bill amending the Budget Act for 2016. The Committee on Public Finance, after a very reliable examination of the above draft law, requests the adoption of a draft law from print no. 916 without making any amendments during the meeting of the committee. Let me just remind you that the bill itself is intended to enable the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development to pay 70% in the current year. advances for direct payments to agricultural producers for 2016 under the common agricultural policy. This payment of advances is intended to mitigate the negative effects of the crisis on agricultural markets. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request the adoption of a draft law from print no. 916. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Please, how fast.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u254	Thank you, sir. Mr Nitras made a formal request. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u255	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your voice. Before the break you announced, five minutes ago, we were dealing with a situation that was ugly when parliamentarians, using arguments that I find unelegant, had a grudge against each other. It seems to me, Mr. Marshal, that in a situation where there are very brutal, rude, unelegant accusations made at one of the messengers, and when she asks you... [[Voice from the room: But true.]] ...and this is indeed your parliamentarians with a very long internship, asking you to take the floor in the correction procedure, and her name has been mentioned... [[She's gone.]] ...and there were very inhospitable voices at her place, I think, Mr. Marshal, that you should give... [[Strong charges.]] ...to such a Member or to such a Member the right to speak and to speak so that she can defend herself in some way. [[But she doesn't. She doesn't complain.]] Mr. Marshal, I have a favor to ask you to act like a Marshal of the Seym... [[But her name wasn't mentioned.]] ...because you're a Marshal of the Seym. [[She insisted.]] Mr Marshal, my request: I am aware that I am acting not entirely in the rule of law, but it seems to me that, for a good custom in this House - I also did not really like this debate that took place before the break - you cannot allow the situation that the Constitutional Minister is speaking and insulting one of the Members by making arguments to him, in addition to a woman, far below the level of the High House, and you are moving away, announcing a break and not giving the Member a voice in the sport mode. This is simply inhospitable and not in line with the standards in this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u256	Thank you, sir. Indeed, this is not a formal application in the rules of procedure. I have not found the basis for the correction, but I am pleased that you have noticed that the discussion was not elegant from all sides. [[But the Member was not elegant.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal, but I did not say anything unelegant.]] I'd like to say... But the Member represents a club that was disturbing the debate, and yet I have agreed to this... [[It's not just us.]] ...to ask all the questions by extending it by more than an hour or about an hour. So, please, there are limits. I'm asking you to... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal...]] [[The Member was blocking the speaker.]] [[Marshal, we are talking about insulting the Member, insulting the Member.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Mr Marshal, I would still like to...]] You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[There's gonna be a blockage now, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u257	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Indeed, it happens that I have been in this House for 25 years, I have been in coalition and in opposition, and it so happens that during these 25 years I have met all the marshals, the Vice-Marshals and all the groups, I have seen all the battles or political battles that have been fought in this House. No one has ever, no matter where he came from, what good he thought of himself, accused me of using the Soviets. You allowed me to say that, and you wouldn't let me speak right away. For this reason, I will probably have to meet Minister Macierewicz in court. But there's something else that only applies to your marshal and your previous behavior. I could not really understand why Mr Zarembie wanted to reach out to 1968 and the article that was signed with my name, which was 100 times explained, explained and properly, according to the decency I am trying to guide in my life, ended. I could not understand why Mr Zaremba, a man who knew me very well, once my colleague from the Democratic Union, and who knew my life story, as well as Minister Macierewicz knows my life story, because for the first time we met in the dining room in the rectory of the Jesuit Church, where I invited him to a meeting in the martial law, and he was a guest there and we had dinner together...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u258	Okay, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u259	So... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u260	I have a huge request to Members of the Civic Platform not to abuse my patience or abuse my rules of procedure because these are irregular speeches.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u261	Mr. Marshal, these are... But you, Marshal... [[But you provoked it.]] [[The Member could have responded.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u262	These are irregular appearances, which is why please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u263	You, marshal, have led to this because you have allowed Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u264	Madam, you can make a statement. Tonight at the end of the day. I encourage you to do that. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much, ma'am. [[The Marshals have such a day that they don't respect anyone.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u265	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The platform would only block the platform today.]] [[Andzel, use the right to remain silent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u266	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Lech Szbek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft Law amending the Budget Law for 2016, published in print No.916, to the committee's report. I'm not going to make any substantive arguments because yesterday I presented them in the club's position at first reading. I just want to express my double satisfaction. Firstly, all parliamentary clubs supported this amendment, and even from the opposition congratulations were made for the rapid pace after the entry into force of the European Commission regulation, which will actually help farmers in their difficult situation due to the difficult situation on agricultural markets. It is also worth noting that the range of payment of this increased 70% advance will apply to all farms, which is undoubtedly a progress compared to the previous year. On the other hand, the second satisfaction stems from the fact that payments of these increased advances have already been made since 17 October. Thanks to the fact that there is a chance to adopt this law at such a rapid pace, it will ensure the smooth implementation of these increased advances. Therefore, once again in my satisfaction, I would like to state that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice does not make any amendments and we are asking for further work on the project to continue in this mood. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The print we are talking about is a print subject to rapid procession. The Civic Platform is very much in favour of a quick process on this possibility of greater and faster payment of advances for farmers, advances for direct payments. I just want to remind and draw attention - a little humility - that it is not that it is some additional help to farmers. These are exactly the same money farmers were supposed to get. The difference is that EU law has changed and these advances can be paid in advance to a greater extent. For this too, praise is that it was done quickly, but we do not agree to say that it is some huge help to farmers. These are the money that farmers deserve, the money that farmers have allocated. And it seems to me that the word "help" at a time when the activities of the institutions that are supposed to serve farmers are being improved are meant to help them transfer the funds that are due to them. This is only an improvement and adaptation to the new regulation of the European Union. Will this change the situation of farmers in a profound way? Of course not, because it is not an idea to help farmers in difficult situations, among others. in connection with the ASF, which the Prime Minister refers to. This will not help to combat African fever, because it is the money of farmers, not the country that is supposed to help farmers to prevent the spread of this disease and many other things. Indeed, agricultural liquidity, farmers' liquidity in payments that were in force could be improved in this way. And that's how it's written. I will send you to the EU Regulation, where it is described exactly what this acceleration is used for. To ensure that farmers have more fluidity in this difficult European situation that has arisen in agriculture. So the words about some great help are a little inadequate here. But, for the sake of fairness, it is appropriate to thank and contribute to the completion of this project as soon as possible, to the vote in this House, so that we can move on as soon as possible to the payment of these 70% advances to farmers. It still seems that a little bit of concern is not quite as efficient as the recent situation has shown, the institutions that are responsible for paying out this money. Let's hope so. We will monitor whether this will be done efficiently, on time and whether all farmers will be covered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u270	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern. There is no Member. [[There isn't.]] Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Applause]] [[You're applauding Malishevsky?]] [[I've been thinking.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u271	It's a promotion. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this project. This money belongs to Polish farmers. There's really nothing unusual about it, because it's farmers' money, it's not some extra budget money. I would like to express my thanks to the Law and Justice for not spoiling this opportunity and for the farmers to get their money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u272	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u273	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that today the funds released under direct payments are needed in the countryside. The village had another very difficult year and Law and Justice together with the opposition decided to make these measures available to the village earlier. But the situation that we have today with the budget is a situation that is repeated once again. And we also need to think about the finances, about the state budget. Let me remind you that we are balancing at the limit of the excessive deficit procedure. Next year, the deficit is virtually maximum. And such moves as triggering an additional deficit in European funds also cost our country, because it is spending extra money on interest. And you have to return it. here note, it cannot be overlooked that we already spend 30 billion annually on interest on the debt of our Treasury. And now the question, which is already today, when discussing the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture for the next year, I have been asking and which I think it is worth answering. Will this situation repeat in the following years that we will be going into an additional deficit for which we will have to pay? Isn't there a strategic solution to these problems? Why? Because 9 billion, because we are talking about this amount, which is to be launched extra for the Polish village, at the standard cost of interest on Polish bonds is about 270 million PLN per year. Well, it has to be divided into quarterly cycles, of course, because these funds will probably be launched in a quarter, if nothing is moving. This gives us nearly PLN 70 million. And that's the money you could probably spend better. They could be spent on strategic decisions for the Polish village, which would actually solve its problems. Because today these shifted funds are not extrabonus for farmers, this is not any rod that is given to farmers to solve their problems as a standard. This will not change the situation on agricultural markets that today have problems, it will not change the situation on farms that are suffering from ASF. This is merely a maintenance of certain holdings of liquidity, not a permanent change in the profitability and productivity of these holdings. What worries me most is that the Ministry of Agriculture has not put forward any strategy to this day. It is said that agriculture is important in Mr Morawiecki's plan, and we did not really know any specific strategy that was revealed in the actions. Because the fact that she might be saved somewhere is one thing, and the fact that it's time to start implementing her is another matter. And today you have to take this very seriously, honestly talk about it and start acting. Or maybe even stop talking and start acting, take actions that strategically change something in this Polish village. We have another year when part of Poland is struggling with drought, we have a year of low prices for both cereals and fruit and vegetables. And you can't really see any light in the tunnel, because we know very well that ideas about the new agricultural markets that are emerging are definitely not enough in relation to what needs are in the Polish village. And we also have a problem with ASF, which can cause huge problems in the next sector of the agri-food market in Poland, agriculture. Therefore, as I said, it is time to stop putting out fires and running with the fire extinguisher, and it is time to resolve these problems strategically. The money we spend today on interest on additional temporary debts could be spent on strategic action. So that, of course, as a modern club, we will, as at an earlier stage, support the adoption of this law, but - as I said - it can be only [[♪ The bell ♪]] Any attempt to put out a fire can't be considered a strategic solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u274	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Free and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Budget Act for 2016 following the work on this amendment in the Committee on Public Finance. Since yesterday we are working on a bill aimed at helping Polish farmers. According to these regulations, farmers are granted the right to receive 70% advance payment for direct payments paid until the end of November of this year. It is true that within this project we are talking about money that would sooner or later be in the farmer's pocket, later, by 30 June 2017. However, it is also true that due to the difficult current situation of farmers caused inter alia. The Russian embargo, allowing farmers to receive the money they deserve in advance, constitutes real, ad hoc aid to them, mainly contributing to their liquidity and fulfilling their expectations. This cannot be ignored and the importance of the government's initiative to use the method and opportunity of helping farmers, which was made possible by Implementing Regulation 2016/1617 of the European Commission of 8 September 2016 cannot be underestimated. Just like yesterday, so today near Free and Solidarnia will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u276	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Time for the question - one and a half minutes. You have the floor of Mr Jerzy Małecki, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Such a change in this year's budget is expected by all farmers. When it is very difficult in the agricultural sector, this change is a step that will help farmers survive. That's why I thank you on their behalf. In connection with the bill, I have questions. This year farmers will receive 70% advance payments for direct payments. By what time next year can they count on the rest? Next question: Are agency systems and employees prepared to quickly implement the provisions of this law? I do not understand the modern Member. I understand the Modern position that it is, of course, in favour, but is the Member for a quick payout or keeping this money in the budget and counting interest? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I said.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I will want to come in with a corrigendum, Mr Marshal, if you do not understand me.]] [[Voice from the room: It wasn't by name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I do not agree with this position which Members of the Civic and Modern Platform have expressed, that this money is not a help to the village, that this money is not a bonus, that it is not a big deal at all, that it is money that belongs anyway, and whether it goes now or later, it is no difference. [[That's not what I said, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this can only be said by Members who do not know the countryside, who do not know the reality of the countryside, who do not know the problems that are in the countryside. This money is expected by farmers, Minister. Farmers no longer want to experience situations that had to be experienced by the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, e.g. last year, because they could not get subsidies almost until May 2016, because the system was not prepared. [[Because you couldn't pay them off.]] Minister, on behalf of the farmers, I would like to thank you very much for the first time in history... [[But you're not a farmer.]] I am a living and active farmer, sir. You may not know this because it's in your head, but I am, and I want to thank you, Minister, for the government's actions, for getting the money, the long-awaited money that is really needed in the country. The question, because I have to ask the question: Minister, please tell me if ever in the history of paying EU subsidies by the agency [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was a situation that prepayments had been paid, as this time, except for the 1,300 million that Sawicki paid because he wanted to win the votes of farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u280	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern, submitted a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have made it clear, but if you do not understand, I will repeat it again. This money is needed by farmers who have had a very difficult next year, but this money is not... I didn't say, sir, that it's not bonus money, that it's not extra money, it's just that it's not extradition. You know very well that this money is written down to farmers and everyone would get it exactly the same amount as not today, in a normal way in two months' time. It is shifted by 2-3 months faster payment for farmers. The fact that I said there was no extrabonus action, was that there was no extrabonus action that would solve it strategically, not speeding up the payment of funds by two months. The fact that money is needed - yes, but farmers are also needed extra strategic [[♪ The bell ♪]] actions that will change the situation on agricultural markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u282	Thank you. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u283	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Speaker! Only because EU law changed on 8 September, which allowed early payment, was available for payment. [[From 50% to 70.]] None of us claim that this is not and will not be needed for farmers to maintain liquidity. I dare say it's just a good job. Of course, I respect the government that it did it quickly, but it is not an additional aid, which is why I claimed that it does not deserve the word "help." This is an improvement in work and actually a sensitivity to agricultural problems. That money the farmers were supposed to get, they're gonna get it in advance to keep it liquid. This is not any additional help. Mr President, not only are you a farmer, there are many farmers in this Chamber. [[You too?]] I'm not a farmer, I'm a veterinarian... [[Close.]] ...so I also have experience in agriculture. So you don't have to brag about it so much. [[I'm a veterinarian, but if you need any help, I can do it.]] [[The voice from the hall: From the dogs or the kittens?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u284	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Hanna Majszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to inform you that the payment of the remaining part of the direct payments will be made from the beginning of next year, successive and as soon as possible. I would also like to address Mrs Hennig-Kloski's question about whether this situation will be repeated and that we are in debt. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the case of direct payments there will always be temporary debt, unless we have an excess in the budget. First of all, these funds must be spent so that the European Commission can be returned, so in any case this is, in principle, linked - with deficit budgets, of course, not when we have a surplus - to some kind of debt. But the fact that today's 2016 budget change involves an increase in the deficit and the possibility of more debt means that revenue, among other things. the final payments which are retained by the European Commission are likely to impact next year and the timing of the mobilisation of these funds from the Commission, namely the release of these final payments, are not affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u286	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Sylvester Tulayev.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. Thank you so much for this discussion. Thank you very much for the positive vote on the government bill amending the budget law for 2016. In view of the need to implement the purpose of the Act, which we have all talked about as soon as possible - the advances can be paid, I will remind you, from 17 October to 30 November - the adoption of this law is very important and very urgent. I hope the High House will accept this bill today. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, I recommend once again the vote, the adoption of this draft law, which has been submitted to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u288	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 40 hours 14 min 44]] We're reconvening. We proceed with the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine (print No 946). I ask Vice-Marshal Richard Terletki to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We accept a declaration of memory and solidarity with a resolution adopted today by Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We accept the declaration of solidarity with Ukraine because, for the first time after World War II, it happened that one European country occupied part of the territory of another European country and did not have any more serious consequences, apart from obstacles, it can be said, for an aggressor who is rather symbolic. That is why - this is a fundamental reason - we accept this declaration near the anniversary very important for our part of Europe, but also an anniversary very grim, as we recall. We take this declaration of solidarity near the anniversary of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact and the Soviet aggression together with the Nazi Germans for Poland and later also for the Baltic countries. We are making this declaration because we believe that cooperation with Ukraine is a key issue for us, it is a matter of Polish state reasons. We also take this resolution at a time when we remind ourselves of our history, we remind ourselves of the tragic cards of our history, the common history of Poland and Ukraine. This story places a shadow on the fate of many Polish families, but we believe that history cannot undermine the cooperation that we are undertaking today and we hope to take in the future. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a declaration of memory and solidarity with a huge crushing majority of 243 votes in favour, with 1 opposite and 4 abstentions. I recommend this resolution on behalf of the Bureau of the Sejm in the belief that it will be one of these small but important cards or bricks, which will consist of a solid building of cooperation between us and our neighbour Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u290	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u291	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Club of Law and Justice on the draft resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine. The Law and Justice Club supports the contested draft resolution. Polish-Ukrainian relations are not easy. The Volyn slaughter was an extremely tragic event in our relationship. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland recently adopted a resolution in which in the name of historical truth and memory of the victims of the murdered and defenseless Polish population named things by name, because in international relations good relations cannot be built without telling the truth about difficult matters. The draft resolution on which we are now proceeding is in no way contrary to that resolution. The contemporary Polish-Ukrainian relations are necessarily largely focused on supporting Ukraine as a country whose territorial integrity was violated by Russia. In the Polish national interest is free and democratic Ukraine integrating with the European Union and NATO in accordance with the will of the Ukrainian people. The proposed text of the joint declaration by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine raises all important issues. It is also an important historical reminder of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, which had tragic consequences for Poland and other nations in this part of Europe. Today Germany is a democratic state, our ally in NATO, a partner in the European Union. The Germans cannot be surprised that we are so sensitive to the point of e.g. the Nord Stream 2 project, which is contrary to EU legislation, contrary to the Energy Union and extremely unfavourable for Ukraine, which certainly coincides with the current policy objectives pursued by Russia. Together, we declare our opposition to violations of international law. Peace in the world, including in Europe, can only be based on compliance with international law. Russia has repeatedly gained from a conflict between nations that she wanted to become addicted to herself. Today, knowingly or not, this policy cannot be implemented. In the face of the return to the imperial politics of Russia, our nations must show solidarity and cooperation. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I hereby formally request that the second reading of the draft resolution proceed without delay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u292	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u293	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be said today from this speaker that with some undiscovered satisfaction we see a turn in the politics of the ruling party. It is also good that at a time when Polish policy, the Polish government's policy towards Ukraine also unfortunately is the result of some chaos, lack of purpose, lack of direction, lack of strategic policy, which took place until 2015, the Sejm shows the government the right direction and shows how to sober up. I am glad that it took PiS only a year to come to the conclusion that Poland's policy until 2015 in Polish-Ukrainian relations was a right and good policy. Only a year, which means that not everything has been ruined. I would like to draw attention to two aspects. Firstly, real assistance from Ukraine is only possible if Poland plays a crucial, crucial and constructive role in Europe. To be an effective lawyer for Ukrainian interests again, we must be a credible partner for our allies in the European Union and NATO allies. I hope that the next step of reflection will be to withdraw from this adventurous European policy. And second note. Today we are in the process of reviewing the neighbourhood policy in the European Union. I look forward to the clear and constructive voice of the Polish government in shaping a new neighbourhood policy in the European Union. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u294	Thank you. One second, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you are listening to our discussions by a group from the Workshop of Occupational Therapies from Bydgoszcz. I'd like to give her a warm welcome. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This joint declaration of memory and solidarity of the Polish Sejm and the Ukrainian Supreme Council is of particular importance. Recently in this Seym we reminded about the Polish victims of mutual conflict between Poland and Ukraine. This resolution is to remind that both parliaments, both chambers well remember the victims of two totalitarians on these lands, the communist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany, suffered by our nations. It is also intended to remind that a weak international response to human rights violations can lead to such disasters in breach of international treaties. In this spirit, this resolution expresses our solidarity with Ukraine, which is the subject of Russian aggression including the occupation of Crimea. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an important resolution because we accept it together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u296	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft resolution bearing the title: Declaration of Memory and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine. Such a compromising draft resolution - substantively, politically and even stylistically - was long gone in the Polish Sejm. I understand that the Members of the PO, the modern part and unfortunately also the PSL want to join Balcerowicz, Nowak and get on Ukrainian watches. Members of the PiS, do it smarter and do not compromise the Polish Sejm. [[What a level.]] Like who I'm talking to. The resolution is prepared perhaps and cleverly, because it uses generalizations of the type of "We pay tribute to millions of victims of aggression and occupation of our countries by the communist Soviet Union and Nazi Germany. Looking from the Polish perspective at the Ukrainian victims, it is necessary to agree with this. Almost everyone remembers the victims of the Holodomor in Ukraine. I gave my own scientific papers on the subject. But the wording used by you, the initiators of the draft resolution, is to kill the memory of the Polish victims of the Ukrainian genocide in the Eastern Kreses, about fucking with a saw, burning alive, crucifying children on tables, killing pregnant mothers. But do you realize that by exposing this content, you destroy the memory of the Ukrainians' involvement in suppressing the Warsaw Uprising? Is that what you want? Ukrainian formations, e.g. The CNS was part of the fascist international community called the National Socialists' Foreign Convention, based in Stuttgart under the patronage of Joseph Goebbels. Don't you remember that? I'm a historian of the 20th century. I read various publications on the history of World War II and I was convinced that the Ukrainians did not participate in anti-Soviet and anti-German resistance during World War II. But you want to prove otherwise. Why are you doing this? In the context of this new writing of the history of this war, will you change the communist myth about the Polish-Soviet brotherhood to the brotherhood of Polish-Ukrainian weapons and within this myth you will treat Ukrainian troops fighting against the insurgents of Warsaw, murdering them with the same cruelty as the famous Oscar Dirlewanger formation, as fraternal troops? This resolution, which cannot reasonably be justified, is certainly also prepared quickly and traditionally sloppyly. You didn't even want to write in it that World War II began with the attack of Germany on Poland on 1 September 1939. The resolution on anti-communist combat is also a disgrace. Yes, you may view Petlura's actions as such, but in the same way as it is written in the draft resolution, you give consent to the recognition of CNS and UPA's actions as well, and you create a myth of a scale of resistance comparable to resistance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish society. It's not only unbecoming, it's also arguing with your assurances about intensifying unbiased historical research. You also commit morally to prosecuting those who claim that there was genocide in Ukraine. Is that what you want? To sum up, we, Kukiz,15, apply to reject the project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u298	Thank you very much. [[In a vote?]] [[First reading. It's about rejection at all.]] Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine The Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine is a step in a very good direction. It is a resolution that builds, not divides, which is to build bridges, not dig ditches between our peoples, Poland and Ukraine. It is only regrettable that we have not really begun our term of office with this kind of resolution, which is to combine and build and not share. Ukraine is our neighbor and our partner, whether you like it or not. In our vital interest is democratic, stable and growing Ukraine, living in peace, and we are currently dealing with a situation where the Russian Federation has invaded our neighbour and our partner and waged a regular war with him. Therefore, our efforts to support Ukraine and the Ukrainians in building a democratic, sovereign state that integrates with European structures should be multiplied. Such a resolution is a good reason to appeal to all public authorities in Poland, also to the President, to reactivate the Presidential Polish-Ukrainian Committee, to Minister Waszczykowski, to the entire government, to increase efforts to support the Ukrainian path to integration with European structures and to use all possible forums in which Poland participates, including the forum of the European Union, so that Ukraine can modernise its country more quickly and integrate closer with the European Union. This resolution refers to the shared tragic history of our history, namely the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact and what both our nations and Poles and Ukrainians experienced from two criminal totalitarians: the Third Reich and the Soviet Union. I appeal to the whole Sejm to adopt this resolution because it is a resolution going in the right direction. And I call on all Members not to use the fundamentals from our point of view, from our point of view, the state of relations between our countries, between our peoples, to build political capital here, within Poland. This is a resolution going in the right direction and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland together with the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine should adopt this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u300	Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, the Polish-Ukrainian relations lasted long and different in historical times, but I would like to remind you of the period of the First Republic: when this cooperation was going well, then Moscow's power was much smaller, and it was practically not important in the European forum. We also have a situation in which Mr Brynus accused PSL of some betrayal of national interests and harm that Poles have suffered in recent times, during World War II, from the Ukrainian people. Mr President, for a few term of office, PSL demanded to call the crime a Volyn genocide, and this happened only during this term, before such an opportunity and this possibility was not possible. I also want to remind you of our difficult relationship with our second Western neighbour. Thanks to the initiative of Polish bishops, we forgive and ask for forgiveness, today we are talking less and less about these difficult and tragic Polish-German relations. The same initiative took place by the Ukrainian and Polish churches in 2013, also looking for an agreement. In these Polish-Ukrainian relations finding good words to the agreement is actually very difficult, but it seems to me that at a time when in Ukraine today the pro-Russian forces are getting stronger, when we have yesterday's signal that Ukraine is ready to give up economic sanctions against Russia, when part of Ukraine is de facto annexed by Russia, Poland should not join those who are pushing Ukraine back into Russia. For example, it is worth leaning on this resolution and adopting this resolution, giving Ukraine again a signal: You are needed in a united Europe, in a group of free, democratic states. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u302	Mr Michał Kaminski, European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Democrats will support this resolution. I would like to express my gratitude to Marshal Terleck and to all those who were involved in the preparation of this resolution. I'm not gonna give you any malice today. In my opinion, however, it is obvious that this resolution is an attempt to dispel the bad impression that caused the resolution on the so-called. genocides on the eastern lands of the former Republic of... [[Voice from the hall: What so-called?]] Because the question of the name of genocide has its term in international law. But let's not get back to this discussion. This resolution has been adopted. She has done a great deal of harm to Polish-Ukrainian relations, but this resolution, which is a good resolution today, is a resolution which the Polish Sejm and Verkhovna Council adopt in a situation in which every day Ukrainian soldiers, very often voluntary soldiers, die in battle, I do not hesitate to use this word, with Russian fascism, because today Putin's regime is not really a post-communist regime, he, apart from having post-communist roots, is a regime that meets criteria closer to fascism. I will not develop this now, but it is clear to us that the Russian imperialism that we are dealing with today, which is resisted by brave Ukrainian soldiers, this Russian imperialism, if it devours Ukraine, will next come to Poland. And he talked about it repeatedly. President Lech Kaczyński, who has done a lot of good for Polish-Ukrainian relations. Today, the men of the Kukiz party 15 spoke of it, they were outraged that in this resolution... [[Voice from the gym: from the club.]] ...from the Kukiz Club15. ...we are talking about those who opposed communism in Ukraine. I am convinced that the intention of Marshal Terletki was not to commemorate Ukrainian collaborators working with the Nazis. We condemn these people because they deserve to be condemned, but I am talking here about Vyacheslav Czornovile, a dissident who sat in the Soviet Lagoon for free Ukraine from 1970 to 1972, and later from 1980 to 1985, I am talking about Vasyl Stus, a poet who sat in the Soviet Lagoon for free Ukraine from 1972 to 1979 and from 1980 to 1985, and finally I am talking about Lewko Łukjanience, a dissident who sat from 1961 to 1986 in the Soviet Lagoon. These were people who, under conditions incomparable to the situation in Poland, had the courage to fight for their nation, their language and their culture and the Soviet Union persecuted them for it. Today, the Polish Parliament [[♪ The bell ♪]] He pays homage and we will therefore support this resolution with our heartfelt support. Because I also want to tell you: every Ukrainian soldier who sheds blood today for his homeland, there, in the East, also transfers it for Europe and transfers it also for Poland, before...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u304	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u305	...Russian barbarism. [[Applause]] [[Slip it again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u306	Mr Kornel Morawiecki, Mr Free and Mr Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do we want brotherhood and solidarity between our peoples, between Poles and Ukrainians, or do we want hypocrisy? This declaration, this resolution, is far from true in many places. We will not support a false declaration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u308	Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! If we are to accept the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhowna Council of Ukraine, we must pay first and foremost tribute to the victims of genocide in Volyn. Making false declarations in international relations could end in a national disaster. The affirmation of Ukrainians in the belief that they have a Polish silent permission to build identity and national community by glorifying Bandera, Shuchevych and the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army is a historical mistake. The main task of Polish parliamentarians is to protect the Polish nation in a cultural, economic and military dimension. The proposed declaration does not even meet these criteria to a minimum. We remember the fight against the Polish and Ukrainian forces of the anti-communist opposition, which gave moral grounds for restoring the independence of our countries. What exactly do the anti-communist opposition organizations in the resolution have in mind? After all, the OUN-UPA was considered anti-communist. I ask for a clear answer on this issue from the co-authors of the Polish declaration. Providing unconditional support for the actions of the Ukrainian State in matters of internal policy or armed conflict with Russia with the total disregard of the most sensitive and still unresolved issue, which is continued insulting by numerous Ukrainian environments, as well as by institutions and unfortunately public administrations, state administration of Ukraine, the memory of Polish victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists, is unacceptable. There's no permission to do that. In Ukraine, however, it is forbidden to show the film Volyn. I think it's part of the Ukrainian-Polish friendship. In Kiev there will not even be a planned press screening of this film. [[It's gonna happen.]] The Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to the Polish embassy in which we can read that the authorities do not recommend the organization of the show due to public order. High Seym! This is unacceptable. We must build relations with Ukraine in truth and in reconciliation. We really care about this. We care about free and independent Ukraine, strong economically, as Poland's partner and Europe's partner, while ignoring the Polish interest in this unsolved issue for years is really irresponsible. On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am applying for the rejection of the draft resolution at first reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u310	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution so hastily pushed by the Polish Sejm, the Polish-Ukrainian resolution, is likely to testify to the great success of the film Volhynia and that the initiators of this resolution, both from the Polish and Ukrainian side, maybe already expected its response and want to cover the impression that Volhynia makes. And we know that it enjoys incredible popularity and attendance in Poland, and on the other hand it is banned in Ukraine. Marshal Terlecki pointed to the geopolitical context and the context of the war in Donbass, the occupation of Crimea, thus saying clearly that maybe not lies, but silences that lead directly to the historical lie present in this resolution must actually be placed on the altar of geopoliticalism. So that today the historical truth about genocide in Volyn we lay down on the altar of geopoliticalism. And rightly here Mr Brynkus pointed out that it was already, that a sense of Polish subjectivity, a sense of importance of the issue to which the border topic is concerned, for the Polish national identity, was already submitted by the past 50 years of communist period on the altar of good relations, good relations between the People's Poland and the Soviet Union. And today again will be the laying of historical truth on the altar of account. But I also draw attention to another aspect of this resolution. Namely, it is also mentioned about the future membership of Ukraine in NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, just as irresponsible from European politicians was the Ukrainians' mom to join the Union quickly or to integrate with the European Union - a mammy, because in Western Europe there is no will to extend to large countries such as Ukraine or Turkey - the same, given the conflict concerning Crimea, which will last for decades, i.e. For decades there will be a situation in which Ukraine will make claims to Crimea and Russia will actually be present territorially there, there is no question of admitting a state to NATO with such an irregular situation. This means that once again wishful thinking leading to geopolitical astray is included in this resolution, that it is an expression of only a romantic vision. That's where we come to conclusions. It is clear that perhaps for the first time since 1989 in this Seym mainly due to the presence of the national movement, the national environment does not agree to the geopolitical definition of Polish Eastern policy in a romantic, messianic, prometheistic manner. Yes, we believe that in the east we should be guided by the principle of national selfishness. And basically, the issue of the Ukrainian-Russian dispute is an issue that concerns us as far as we can benefit from it or lose it, and in this case we should act assertively. High Seym! This resolution is an expression of faith in the fact that without a connection to strong economic interests, we are able to declare really a friendship with Ukraine just as politicians who performed in Majdan spoke of gratitude. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there is no category of gratitude in international politics. There's a category, at most, ungrateful. There are no such categories in relations between nations. There could be friendship, there could be enmity. The essence is the existence of real common, stable interests. If you cannot demonstrate any other than historical declarations and declarations of will in this matter, it means that these fundamental interests simply do not exist and that Poland should be guided by the principle of national selfishness in relation to each of the countries in the east, and also in the west. There is also no agreement that in the forum of the Polish Sejm everyone who believes that globalism in three dimensions is a fundamental threat to Poland in the 21st century: in the political dimension, i.e.. in the dimension of reducing, eliminating the sovereignty of national states by institutions such as the European Union, in the economic dimension, including free trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP, and in the cultural dimension by the aggression of cultural Marxism, anyone who sees it as a fundamental threat to the Polish nation, for the Polish future, for the Polish statehood in the 21st century... [[Don't forget your abortion.]] ...was marginalized - in the debate there is talk of Russian agents. There's no permission to do that. This offends the Polish Sejm. You have the right to metaphysically treat the threat from the Russian Federation: potential, real, imaginary, but you have no right in the geopolitical debate of people who present a different way of thinking, immediately label and classify. Because if... [[Nobody's said anything yet.]] ...that's how you classify it, that's how you talk about Israeli agents, American agents, or finally Ukrainian agents. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u312	Thank you. Mr Janusz Sanocki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We'd have to look at the facts. Ukraine, the Ukrainian state is not at war with Russia. President Poroszenko as a businessman owns, among others. factories in Russia. Last year he paid $60 million tax to the Russian budget. We're out in front of the line. We're more Ukrainian than Ukraine itself. Since Ukraine does not agree with the annexation of Crimea, it should be at war, it should declare war, at least one Ukrainian soldier in the defence of Crimea should die. Meanwhile... [[What are you talking about? It's where people die.]] You're full of shit, man. They're dying because it's civil war. And let's not talk nonsense. Dear Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this foolishness must end because this resolution is a symptom... [[Take it, you're embarrassing me, man.]] You're embarrassing yourself with your stupidity. ...the political stupidity, the simple political stupidity, because we're getting ahead of ourselves. We have no interest in this, we are even damaging Polish interests. I help the Ukrainians personally, personally. I help Ukrainian families. I am for free Ukraine, but I am against flagism, against the fact that there all Ukrainian patriotism is built on the myths of Bandera and fascists. And closing your eyes on it is just some horrible stupidity and anti-Polonism and anti-Ukrainianity. This resolution is detrimental to Poland. It's gonna hurt our real relationship. That's how some very naive people can imagine it. What may this result from? Some kind of paranoid anti-Russianity. I understand that Russia is a strong country, often its interests pose a threat on different sections, but the real assessment of this threat must be a real assessment, it must be referring to facts, not to paranoia, and we are going into some kind of paranoia. Somehow they don't see this threat from the French, the Czechs, the Hungarians, just us. [[What can't they see?]] Again we go in the name of the sick messianics, in the name of the sick political messianics we go to free other nations. Do these nations look kindly on us? Is the Polish minority in Ukraine well treated? Do Polish parishes recover their property? Ladies and gentlemen, this is just bullshit. We also have anti-Polish biases in the Sejm, but unfortunately it belongs to the gentlemen who sit here and bang. [[No crying.]] Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I ask you to reject this resolution because it is simply a symptom of some extreme naivety or even stupidity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u314	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after I ask you the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that Mr Kaminski in great trouble recalled three names of anti-communist Ukrainian activists in the Soviet era after 1945, but these activists can be counted on the fingers of one hand, unless we consider Leonid Kuczma or Leonid Krawczuk as activists, who first, being activists of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, were suddenly transformed and founders of the Ukrainian state. Therefore, I have two questions. The first is: Do you know other Ukrainian anti-communist activists? I'd love to hear about them, because we really don't know much about them. We know even those who, in 2014, before being anti-communist activists, also the second Lukjanenko, only slightly different, banned in 2014 the release of his works in Ukrainian, claiming that there is no such country as Ukraine. But that's not the point. The thing is, ladies and gentlemen, you just go too far with these declarations, far too far. You need to come to your senses. If we adopt this resolution, then we will respond positively to the resolution of the Wierchowny Soviet of Ukraine, the bill, I apologize, which says that those who will question the Ukrainian genocide in the Eastern Kres, those who will talk about the Ukrainian troops fighting against the Germans during World War II will be punished. If you simply want to do this, please do so, I suggest that you apply for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity not only to Paul Kukiz, but to all the Kukiz Members15, and it is best that you commit to this and take us straight to Ukraine. Thank you very much. [[You can see that there are no limits to stupidity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u316	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u317	I was terribly afraid of this debate, and you can see that it was the right thing to do. Besides, I express my private opinion, of course my personal opinion, but admission to debate - I know that the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are in force - in which people who... If people like Mr Sanocki or Mr Winnicki were responsible for Polish foreign policy, for building relations with the Ukrainians, if such - I do not want to say a word too strong, but the word "crazy" seems an appropriate word - crazy people were responsible for our relations, we would have a permanent war today. We'd have a permanent war. Unfortunately, the past of our relations knows these types of people who led to tragedy, many times to tragedy, in Polish-Ukrainian relations, in relations between Poland and other countries. We are at least 50 years smarter than you, and that is why we will not allow such acts of hatred to take place in Europe among nations. The questioning of victims of the Ukrainian people in 2016 is simply a disgrace. If you say you're a historian - I'm talking to my predecessor - questioning even the persecution of Greek Catholics by Communists... The role of Archbishop Slipyja, the role of Archbishop Szeptycki - these are the best sons of Ukrainian land. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The oppressor of the Polish nation. Scandal.]] These are the people who saved the Poles as well. These are the people who saved the Ukrainians. Ukrainians have the right - they have the right - they have the right to care for their memory, and the duty of responsible Polish and Ukrainian politicians is to care for good relations, to remember the past and to build a wise future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're gonna do it against the crazies who want to lead us to some irresponsible territory like gentlemen. We can do it, and we can do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u318	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking of crazy people, you should look at the people who want to drive us into some deeper conflict with Russia, and they will not support Ukraine's actions. Action for Ukraine's independence is of course important, but this resolution or a millimeter will not bring us closer to improving relations with Ukraine, but, on the contrary, will significantly worsen relations with Russia without giving anything in return. This is hypocrisy, which we just heard. But you, I understand, burned yourself out of shame and walked out of the Seym, and very well. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I would like to ask the rapporteur a question. Please don't take it in any way as an attack. [[Kissing.]] Yeah, fondlings. I just want to know who's behind this project. We remind you of the behaviour of the Ukrainian party, what happened after the resolution on 11 July, a resolution on genocide. We would like to remind you that between 16 and 17 July it was the Ukrainian party who called off the joint meeting of our parliaments, deciding that we would not talk together. I understand it wasn't prepared at the meeting because he was just gone. So I would like to ask the question: Who prepared this text of the resolution and was it not by chance the text that we received from the Ukrainian side, only translated into Polish in our parliament? What is the purpose of this resolution now? Why is she now entering the Sejm, and yet in such a way that it is basically ad hoc to be thrown into a joint committee meeting? Isn't that the answer to the movie Volyn, softening some message? And the third thing, the reprehensible way of proceeding, which you are once again funding from the PiS in this parliament. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to remind you that as a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I received information yesterday, quote: on the examination of the draft declaration of memory and solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine. And what we got is just a Polish-Ukrainian agreement. Where did the Baltic countries go in this resolution? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u320	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. I will not argue with the geopolitical need to take such or other acts as are to merge our nations, because I think we should merge them. Nor will I argue with Mr Winnicki, who does not know that Turkey is long in NATO and there is no need to accept it. I'm not gonna get into any history fights here either. On the other hand, my question is simple: Why is it not politically settled if this is a politically important act? Why was such words allowed in this room? Why could it not be possible to gather representatives of the most important political forces and first talk to them, establish a text? Then we could establish a resolution or declaration in a solemn way that would have political and spiritual significance. However, we have caused confusion in this way, there are arguments between us, which will be used by others, e.g. by the Russians. To whose benefit are we here, thus proceding? That could have been done differently. Not in such a way that you submit a text, which is debatable, which could be straightened out, which could be done in Polish, because it contains language errors, and about it in a moment. We are doing this at the moment, and on yesterday's PiS country, unfortunately with the help of one other Member, you no longer cared about the rights of Poles, I mean specifically the rights of the Silesians, when you threw their rights into the basket, while we are fighting for the rights of others. There's a misunderstanding here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u323	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Continuing with the thread that Mr Grzegorz Długi mentioned during the questioning, I would like to ask a question about the sloppyness of the draft submitted to the High House, because even in the speech of the Marshal, the High Council was mentioned, while the text refers to the Verkhovna Council. Let's decide whether it's Verkhovny Soviet or the Supreme Council. The same applies to the issue of naming, whether we have the Soviet Union or we have the Soviet Union, because we have both versions in the submitted project. I am, of course, in favour of calling entities by name, let it be the Soviet Union. This shows on this delicate piece how sloppyly prepared this draft resolution is. Essential question: Why should both parliaments celebrate only the victims of communist and Nazi crimes? Why don't we touch what's wrong with these relations between our nations so that we can finally get on the ground of the truth? Why don't we celebrate the victims of the Bander crime? Why can't we just touch it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: We celebrated.]] We celebrated, but Mr Święcicki asked me with his speech whether he was a member of the Polish Sejm or Verkhovny Soviet, because I did not know how he challenged the resolution of the High Chamber of July, which was clear about genocide, speaking the language of the president or president of the Institute of National Remembrance of Ukraine, that it was fraternal fights and victims on both sides. I am curious, sir, if in the case of the victims of the Holocaust you would also say that the victims were on one side and on the other. I'm very curious. On the other hand, I would like to refer to one of the paragraphs, which is a scandal for me at all: "We believe in the need to intensify impartial historical research, to enter into sincere and friendly cooperation between researchers (...). Beautiful, but we have decimals: also holding back the forces that lead to disputes in our countries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What we're about to ban is the movie Volyn in Polish cinemas, just like this Did the Ukrainian side do it? We are about to burn books that speak about the truth about Polish-Ukrainian relations during the Second World War, in a moment we will send Ukrainian textbooks to Polish schools, as is the case in Warmia and Mazury, Bandera and I, Roman Shuchewycz - my friend. This is an outrage. This resolution should go to the trash as soon as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to Marshal Terleck for this initiative. I believe that this is extremely important because every attempt at dialogue with Ukraine is essential. A few years ago, two years ago, Russia sentenced Oleha Sencov to 20 years in a row. I would like to tell you, regardless of what the intentions of your resolution are, that this is a return at least to outline what Jerzy Giedroyc proposed in relations with Ukraine and the East. I think it is extremely important that today we build these elements of dialogue that are so weak and so rachitic. It is important that you also realise that in Poland there are more than one million Ukrainians and Ukrainians. These are the people, these are the refugees who found the house, found the job, found the place of their existence. It is worth remembering that today we think of Europe in terms of conversation, dialogue, building common European values. You are so effectively trying to fight the Ukrainians, with history, back to historical politics, she sits in your heads in a very unusual way, you are emotional, and we are looking to the future. The future is ahead of us, not the past. Let us build what can be a common bridge for Ukrainians and Poles. Let us build the Polish and Ukrainian countries on sensible principles of cooperation. In November, a Ukrainian week will take place in the Shakespeare Theatre in Gdańsk. All of you, please come in. Look how Ukrainians think. Look at the art they're doing. Look at the books they write. Please refer to what has been printed and written in Ukraine in recent years, what is translated into Polish in Poland. Why do you insist on this bad, curved, negative, difficult story? Let's get away from this. You have to remember that, but you can't question it at the same time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's going on between us today. This is more important than the past. History may be poison, but it's worth considering that it's building us, not destroying us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u326	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The real question is, why on different sections of foreign policy, and I refer to foreign policy, because this geopolitical consideration, despite the wording of the Member, is given as a fundamental to this resolution, a blind alley? You are turning into deals and alliances, which turn out to be a failure, because let us remind you: you have been betting on Great Britain, Britain has splendid isolation, because it deals with Brexit, you have been betting on Turkey, and you have even agreed to visa-free travel with Turkey, and Turkey is changing the front, it is applying a revolutionary policy, pragmaticly or less pragmaticly, but that is what every country does. Now you're back into an alliance with Ukraine at all costs, also at the price of historical truth, also at the price of the policy on Eastern Kresów, an important element of our identity, I repeat. That's, among other things. That is why today you banned in this Seym the conference on Kresów, about Poles in Lithuania, about Poles in Vilnius and you banned Members from introducing guests, Members of the National Democratic Team. This is not an expression of a pragmatic foreign policy. This is an expression of deep ideology. Some in Poland hate Russia more than they love our country, and that is the problem in relations with our Eastern partners. Really, don't push us into a railroad that leads to a wedge, and no one in the East is going to be grateful, but we're going to have more and more problems, and we're going to fall into more and more isolation in the international arena. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't do Polish at the expense of other people's interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u328	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform. [[I'm wearing glasses and I can't see the stairs.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You underestimate Russia that there was no Russian aggression, as if the whole European Union had not adopted sanctions against Russia for what it did in Ukraine. You seem to be underestimating what Lech Kaczyński said. Let me remind you, I quote: 'We know very well that today Georgia, tomorrow Ukraine, and then maybe also time for my country, for Poland.' This is what Lech Kaczyński said in 2008. If today we do not solidarity with Ukraine's fight against the invader, with aggression, with violations of international law, with economic aggression, with propaganda, then tomorrow we do not know what the aggressor will do in such a state of affairs by other countries, where he will go. Hence, a common reminder of what the policy of concessions led to, a policy of tolerance against violations of international law, to which horrible joint victims, is at hand in the context of today's weakness in the response to Russian aggression in Ukraine. So, once again, I would like to stress that this resolution is absolutely in place. It was said here that there are so few Ukrainian dissidents. It is true that we in Poland can boast that we had the most dissidents - Mr Morawiecki, the whole of Solidarity, 10 million people, organized democratic opposition, fighting, relentless, but in Ukraine the repression was far worse. How many people died there in the rags, how many were sent to the psychics, but still there was the Helsinki Committee, there were individual people who died later in the rags, there the Church was persecuted improbably. There is no comparison with the situation in Poland, so there is no need to weigh it somehow in such a resolution, but to recognize that such opposition really existed there and fought for European values. I fear to think what Mr Winnicki means by saying that in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict we should be guided [[♪ The bell ♪]] With your own selfishness. I'd rather not think about it. This is a good resolution, I thank the initiators of this resolution, and we should adopt it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u330	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants Vice-Marshal of the Seym of Mr Ryszard Terletki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll refer to two or three speeches. I will not argue with the voices of those who show some extreme historical incompetence. I'm gonna talk about two things. First of all, there was an opinion here that we had made some kind of political return. Well, we have not made any political return. This is a consistent policy which is intended to lead to cooperation between countries which are in a somewhat similar geopolitical situation, i.e. Central and Eastern Europe, which is supposed to lead to closer and cooperation with our neighbour, Ukraine, but which at the same time will not cross the historical truth, which in no way alienated us from what we owe our ancestors, our grandparents or fathers. History should be discussed by historians, politicians of course also, using the knowledge of historians, and here we had examples very, I would say, painful opinions about Ukraine. I am thinking here of the statements that were made this morning at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, and also here, in this Chamber, questioning the fact that the Ukrainians also fought communism. Ukrainians fought communism, maybe on a different scale than Poles, or maybe even on a similar scale. I myself had the privilege of knowing the dissidents, Ukrainian opponents in the 1970s, and I remember my admiration for them, because I was threatened by 48 hours, a search, some small chicane, and they threatened, as it was, as they wrote, years of the boat. Years of boating. So that's first of all. That's not a phrase. Poland... Here I refer to the first speech of the representative of the Civic Platform, who spoke about this return and who said that Poland should be a lawyer and partner of Ukraine in Europe. I agree with that, but I do not agree exactly with his view that this has been the case in the past eight years. Poland was not a lawyer or a partner because it did not matter in Europe. It has not pursued an independent European policy and it requires a lot of effort to achieve or rebuild this serious position in Europe. There were very demagogical voices here that we wanted to forget about the experiences of history. On the contrary, the resolutions we adopted in the summer show the opposite. We are just talking about the fact that history is an important element of our national consciousness and no one is going to take it away from us. We're talking about the fact that you can't practice politics without memory, without historical memory. On the other hand, we cannot rely solely on historical experience. I have students who come to college today and are convinced that actually the Second World War was conducted with Ukraine, they have no knowledge of the German or Soviet crimes, but they have some idea, based on what is in public space, in media space, about the victims who died, about the victims of the Ukrainian crime. So this is also the answer to this, the last reference I have already made to what we have heard here, that we have adopted this resolution, without negotiating with Members who have a different opinion. But who were we supposed to negotiate with? Look in the mirror, gentlemen. [[There's no need to twist it. I didn't say "messes."]] Look at the level of your knowledge and your statements. That, I think, is very important here. This resolution, which Ukraine adopted today, was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and which I hope will also accept the Polish Sejm, was not a surprise. We've been working on this for a long time. Besides, the committee was supposed to work on this last week, only some obstacles, as I recall, international visit to the Polish Sejm, caused that the committee presidents were just busy and had to cancel the committee, hence this haste. We wanted to do this around September 17th, it did not quite work out, because this text was also negotiated between the Polish and Ukrainian parties quite long and different details were concerned. I think it's wrong that we're not going to adopt this resolution by acclamation... [[Yeah, that's right. And why couldn't it be done?]] ...but on the other hand nothing happened, because we are aware that there are people in Poland who do not want to cooperate with Ukraine and will do everything to ensure that this cooperation does not happen. There were strong accusations against them here, and I'm not going to repeat them. I think there's a different category than people who work for not necessarily those they want to work for, but that only shows their intellectual level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u332	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft resolution at first reading, as well as to accede immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 46 hours 15 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 16 and 17 of the agenda: 16. Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration (prints Nos 826 and 925). 17. Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration (Prints No. 827 and 926). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present the reports of the committees in prints 925 and 926.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the reports of the Committee on Public Finance on Parliamentary Bills: on the National Tax Administration, print No 925, and the Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration, print No 926. The basis for the proposed regulation establishing the National Tax Administration lies directly under Article. 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is the importance of the obligation to bear public benefits, in particular taxes and customs duties. In the current state of law, the tax and customs administration which collects budgetary revenue within the government has an on-the-spot structure, distributed, concentrated in three independently functioning verticals. The first is the tax administration, the second is the customs service and the third is the tax control. The dispersal and duplication of certain tasks related to the collection of tax and customs duties within each service makes it impossible to carry them out in a coherent and uniform manner, while at the same time making optimal use of available staff and organisational and financial capacity. The simultaneous functioning of several identical control procedures towards taxpayers fosters the emergence of significant procedural differences that affect taxpayers' rights and obligations. Maintaining the current state in which the tax, customs and fiscal administrations are de facto not acting according to uniform procedures undoubtedly has a negative impact on the level of collection of tax liabilities due and thus on the state budget. Therefore, a project was created proposing the creation of a consolidated administration in the form of the National Tax Administration. After the first reading at the meeting of the Sejm, the draft law was addressed to the Committee on Public Finance, which set up an extraordinary subcommittee for the examination of parliamentary draft laws: on the National Tax Administration (Print No 826) and the Rules introducing the Act on National Tax Administration (Print No 827). The subcommittee, in order to discuss in detail 276 articles contained in the original draft law, held three full-day meetings with representatives of numerous social parties, mainly trade unions of customs and fiscal services. During the procedure, Members tabled several dozen amendments, which were introduced in the draft law after the votes. The report of the subcommittee, together with the attached draft law and the proposal to adopt the bill, was presented at the meeting of the Public Finance Commission on 18 October this year. During the multi-hour examination by the Committee on Public Finance, the various articles of the draft law were tabled by the members of the committee by successive amendments. Discussion of the draft law by the subcommittee and the amendments tabled also took place with the participation of numerous representatives of the social side. Representatives of the trade unions of customs and fiscal services took an active part in the discussion. The Commission, after considering the draft law at its meetings on 22 September and 18 October 2016, requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The same procedure concerned the draft law by the introductory provisions. At the same time, similar meetings were held and the Committee on Public Finances also decided at its meeting on 18 October to present the bill to the High House with a recommendation for the adoption of this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u334	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the National Tax Administration Act and on the Regulations implementing the National Tax Administration Act. I would like to focus briefly on three issues: why this law is being created, tell a few things about the myths around it, as well as about changes in the work of the subcommittees and committees. So let's start with why this bill is being made. High Izbo, this has actually been mentioned several times, but it is always worth remembering. Case one, more revenue to the budget, but also the sealing of the taxes themselves. This is extremely important. We saw how it developed, how the VAT gap was growing dynamically from around 10% up to about 25% in the 8 years of government of the previous coalition. We've seen the gray zone grow to a level of about 20% today. any economic activity. We have seen - and this has also shown us even the research of the Supreme Audit Chamber - how much problem we have with fictional invoices. This is today - these detected - an amount of 80 billion. We see what the next problem is, because the goal is to organize it, also through consolidation. Today we have a huge number of offices - 48 at the voivodship level, 594 at the local level. According to these provisions, 16 and 400 are to be respectively. This reduction of bureaucracy is undoubtedly an opportunity to shift workers to the line, to help taxpayers, because this is the third of the goals, i.e. better aid for taxpayers, entrepreneurs. Case two, these myths. It's always said that you're still trying to present the case in such a way that the establishment of the National Tax Administration is intended to terminate the customs service. That's completely untrue. As we have already said, it is a consolidation, a reorganisation, but their employees, who will be part of the customs and treasury offices that will be set up, will have more competence, more capacity for action. They're talking about some mythical army of activists, maybe the Laws and Justice, who's supposed to hit these offices. That is absolutely not true. Besides, only a suicidal man could think that way to customs... [[What about e-KRUS?]] ...or fiscal to introduce political activists without preparation. [[You're blushing out of shame.]] Ladies and gentlemen! During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, we have led to many important, important changes. I made a promise from this speaker that we would introduce requirements for the wardens and for the directors. That's a fact. Customs will remain, it was also hotly postulated. We have the introduction of delegations, i.e. out-of-town branches, the National Tax Administration. The service will be included in the internship. This was undoubtedly also a shortcoming. In airports, thanks to one of the amendments that I could also report, there will be around 1,500 and 1800 jobs. Finally, the fact that the head of KAS will also be banned in case of cooperation with the Polish People's Republic services. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my thanks - thanks and to representatives of tax administrations, and to representatives of trade unions customs officers who... [[And for us, too.]] ...and finally for all the Members who have worked actively, for the fact that, I think, we have also succeeded in eliminating and improving some things. At the same time, I would like to make amendments that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice makes to these two laws. Finally, of course, I would like to point out that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] supports this law in its entirety and will vote in favour of it during the vote. Thank you very much. [[No applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u336	Thank you. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The two laws we are talking about are really very important, very important systemic issues. No one has any doubt that we need a professional, efficient tax administration, but it is astonishing the unparalleled nonchalance with which the rulers approach these projects. Let me remind you that we are starting with a parliamentary project that was supposedly consulted 10 years ago. We actually worked in the subcommittee for three days. As part of the work of the subcommittee, several hundred amendments were tabled to these laws, as part of the work of the subcommittee, followed by several dozen amendments at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. In fact, no one can actually count how many legislative amendments the Legislative Bureau has tabled. Incidentally, Mr Legislator, the Legislative Office certainly deserves a thank-you as well. But despite the effort we have put in place, we still feel that the rules are illegible in many places. They are illegible not only to taxpayers, for good, not only to external customers, but also to the internal ones, to the employees of the body themselves. What awaits us is the enormous chaos in the IRS and, in my opinion, the opposite effects to the expected. Let us also remember that this is a law of this nature, and we do not have an analysis of the effects of regulation. Now, the question is, what's the rush? From our point of view, the key is politicisation, expropriation, unprecedented politicisation of tax authorities. There is a cosmetic change regarding work placement, but there are still appointments - there are no competitions - and political verification of all employees. With that in mind, we're offering you a change of name. We have prepared an appropriate amendment. This should not be the National Tax Administration Act, but the National Tax Administration Act, NAS in short. It'll be yours, ours - you can say that - the tax administration. There are a number of solutions to the labour issue. I would like to hear from my colleague Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[There's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u338	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u339	Minister! Aren't you ashamed? No sugar comes from mixing with a teaspoon. I will tell Mr Schreiber that this does not defend your justification that it is for sealing. You're just mixing. You said 416 jobs - for you, because you are eliminating competitions here. There is no question of helping taxpayers in this bill. I would like to add to that that there are no draft regulations, and these regulations must be issued by the Minister 84. So you wanted to beat Minister Zalewska, who is introducing a reform of education, which has so much resistance from all those who will do this, but also parents. In this case, there is an objection of 65 thousand. the people who will be waiting. They're not going to work effectively on tax collection, they're just going to think if they're going to get a new employment contract in due time, because there's no transition, no transition. We would have believed your pure intentions if this service had been transformed under the provisions of the Code, Art. The 23rd Labour Code. That's one thing. Secondly, it is important to work on two draft laws, on the pension system for the Customs Service and on the solution to this problem. One civic project, 200,000. signatures, nothing's happening, and on the other hand, you're trying to... Minister Banaś determines differently the number of persons who would be covered by this obligation, the number of customs officers: from 2500 to 7500 people recently. So we're critical of this. We make amendments that talk about employment guarantees for workers who are employed in this service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the most important thing, because the rest are your dreams and dreams. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Give me a round of applause. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Kukiz club15, we are in favour of reorganising services in Poland, but once again I would like to take the floor in defence of the Customs Service employees who, with the entry into force of this law - all points out this - will mostly lose their jobs. In addition, we are risking chaos on an important section of the external border of the European Union and the loss of what has been achieved in the Customs Service in recent years, and we have achieved really good governance and providing significant budgetary implications for uniform formation. The new law does not take into account many important factors: the fact that the Customs Service has been substantially reorganized in recent years by improving the quality of the services provided, as evidenced by the fact that 100% export declarations and almost 100% import declarations are handled electronically; removal from the service of many corrupt officers and effective cleaning of their own ranks; improvement of service and efficient management of officers' competences. The fact that the Polish Customs Service operates the European Union border section with the highest volume of freight traffic is also overlooked. Every 2 seconds a passenger or truck is checked out at the border, which is less than a second a traveller is discharged. In 2015, this resulted in a total of over 1.5 million trucks, almost 12.5 million passenger cars and 46 million travellers. At the same time, 461 million cigarettes, 807 tonnes of tobacco and drought were detained, 113 000. t spirits. In 2015 alone, as many as 30 thousand were detained. Slots where illegal games were played. In the name of official fanaberia, there is a project to create a formation that will adversely affect the activities of those institutions that are specialized today. In return, a single structure is proposed that will disperse the competence and expertise of officials who are effectively fighting tax fraud today. To this day, the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of Minister Szalamacha, and under the direction of Prime Minister Morawiecki, was unable to answer the most important questions asked by officers: How many people currently working will lose their jobs? How are they gonna solve the officers' pensions? Who and where are they gonna move it? What changes will occur in their earnings? How will all of this affect their professional and family life? You boast of support for Polish families, screaming proudly about 500+, living+ and, at the same time, you fund a nervous system in the homes of thousands of officers. You are arrogant in your behavior, unable to talk to people about the effects of your solutions. Your decisions will affect the lives of many people, while you force the projects of the National Tax Administration, regardless of anyone and nothing. The analysis of independent institutions indicates the fatal consequences of this bill, but you are deaf to these opinions, you do not want to face them. I will recommend the Kukiz Club15 to turn against this form of the National Tax Administration organisation and, above all, against this form of governance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration, prints 826 and 925, and the parliamentary draft law on National Tax Administration, prints 827 and 926. A few corrections at the beginning. Mr Schreiber was gracious to say that the Customs Service is not being liquidated. Well, it is eliminated because it loses its independence. I must congratulate the Members of the Law and Justice, the Government, because you really have an incredible gift of chaos, a bad change. An example of the chaos introduced is the National Tax Administration. The law, which is being introduced to the High House and to which several hundred amendments are tabled, is, after all, merely a legislative framework. It will probably happen that in a month's time we will proceed with further changes in this bill. You have an extraordinary gift. First, you instrumentally treated Customs officers, then when they were needed, you sought uniform status for this formation, and now you're just eliminating it. You are once again introducing partitions of Poles, this time division between tax and customs officials. At the moment, the IRS isn't working. Everyone wonders how many employees from a given formation will be in new structures, and no one wonders how to effectively collect tax charges. On the one hand, I should be happy as an opposition Member with such a turn of events, but I am a pro-stateman and that concerns me. I am concerned about the mess and chaos that you are introducing in the Polish state. Another corrigendum, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Schreiber, at first reading, was gracious to mention the real under-financing and lack of increases in the area of fiscal and customs administration, and vaguely announced significant increases, comparing the base amount in the customs and treasury administration to the lowest salary. And as it turned out, after submitting the draft budget? That the King is naked because he has not proposed any increases for this sphere except those resulting from the general provisions of the Budget Act, i.e. at 1.3%. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many elements related to the substantive comments to this project. The Modern Posel Club, first of all, will ask for the rejection of both draft laws at second reading. Where this proposal is not put to the vote, we shall also make amendments to these drafts. One of the amendments is to restore an open and competitive competition for both directors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as the heads of the tax offices under conditions that were in the tax administration, because there were correctly formulated regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u344	Thank you. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my views on these reports on two draft laws, prints No. 826, 827, 925 and 926. During my first reading of the projects, I tried to convince the High House that these were bad projects, that they had bad ideas that they were missing out on the fundamental objective of increasing tax collection, that they were bringing chaos and organizational mess that they were not properly prepared for further work in the Sejm. Even the Supreme Court thought that, I quote: the proposed laws should not be the subject of further legislative work. Unfortunately, the votes of the PiS Members were decided differently. By force, you force projects that have no rational justification, which are literally a legal bubble in the classic edition. The projects were addressed to the Extraordinary Commission for consideration. The project authors themselves have made hundreds of amendments that have been incorporated into the project content. Unfortunately, this has not improved the quality of these documents despite the many hours of work of the members of the subcommittee, as well as the people and institutions concerned and who are interested in their proper regulation. The Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 17 October, also after a multi-hour debate, examined the projects submitted by the Emergency Sub-Committee. The votes of Members, again from the PiS, included further numerous amendments in the drafts and submitted these proposals to the High House for adoption. Projects are still not acceptable as a law that would apply and change fiscal and customs structures. Observing with what determination the PiS is pushing these solutions with, being completely deaf to reasonable, rational proposals, confirms our conviction that these are not projects that would improve organizationally. These are typical HR projects for the PiS. This revolution is only about releasing 65,000 by law. tax workers and Customs and, of course, only hire those with specific political sympathies to know who took them to work. The proposals submitted to the High House after work in the subcommittee and committees are not suitable for adoption. They're still bad projects with a lot of mistakes. not to be removed. There are no guarantees that the new structures will work more effectively. There are still many unanswered questions, and the scale of the problems is enormous. I would also like to point out that trade unions were involved in the work of the subcommittee and the committee. We have all received, I would say, such a letter of reason, an open letter summing up these legislative work in the Sejm. Here's what the Federation of Customs Trade Unions writes. Such writings went to all the leaders, so to the government, to Parliament, to the president, to bring some recollection. Maybe I'll read the clippings of that letter. Trade unionists stress the position expressed by e.g. Professor Modzelewski, who writes that: In this form this law should not be passed. The implementation of the Act will result in an objective decrease in the functional efficiency of this structure. This is inevitable. Then, in the Supreme Court's assessments: the proposed laws are therefore not in fact justified. The proposed legislation should not be the subject of further legislative work. And the trade unionists, looking at whether they participated in the legislative work, say, among other things, that: The authors submitted 90 pages of self-corrections and 40 pages of subsequent amendments to the auto-corrections. So that's the bill. Finally, the trade union appeal: Ladies and gentlemen, without denying the need for change, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We believe that we still have time to stop the harmful reform for the Polish state. Once again, we ask you to re-examine the contents of the laws in order to avoid fundamental errors...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u346	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u347	...which they contain. Laws aren't to support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u348	Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law on National Tax Administration and the draft law on National Tax Administration. Reform of the danin collection and control system is needed and expected. Sealing the revenue system to the budget is a necessity. We all expect a simple and efficient system operating at no excessive cost. Consolidation of the tax administration, tax control and customs service is, in our view, a good solution. Improving the coherence of tax and customs collection tasks, making better use of human resources and technical resources is a good direction. Currently, the tax administration has 16 tax houses and 400 tax offices, the Customs Service is 16 customs chambers, 45 customs offices and 141 customs departments. The tax control is carried out by 16 tax offices and eight branches. All units at voivodship level have their own budgets, staff and manage assets. It's just a waste. The implementation of tax and customs collection tasks is inconsistent, each of these authorities pursues its own development policy and has its own low-compatibility IT solutions for data exchange. The draft law provides for the establishment of the National Tax Administration in place of the current tax administration, tax control and customs services. The National Tax Administration will be subordinate to the Minister responsible for public finances. In accordance with the draft as of 1 January 2017, they will be merged at the level of each voivodeship of the tax administration chamber with customs offices and tax control offices. The number of administrative units will decrease, which is the implementation of requests made for many years by numerous environments as regards the need to reduce administrative burdens. This direction of change should also be maintained in other areas of public administration, including local government. Unfortunately, the project also contains a dangerous solution to the security of the situation of citizens, which is the abolition of the two-instant tax procedure. Appeals against decisions of heads of customs offices, successors of tax offices, i.e. the authority that will conduct the biggest, most difficult proceedings, will be dealt with by the same chief. This will result in different review procedures in the case of tax proceedings. If we have to deal with proceedings conducted by the head of the customs office, the appeal will be dealt with by the same authority. If the proceedings are conducted by the head of the tax office, the appeal against the decision will be sent to the head of the tax administration. The result will be a quick enforcement of tax charges also in the case of incorrect decisions. In this part, the project should be considered and, in our view, revised during further work in the Parliamentary Committee to guarantee the security of taxpayers and the stability of legal trading, which translates into the level of confidence of citizens in the institutions of the state. The Parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the National Tax Administration Act contains the necessary amendments to 157 laws related to the entry into force of the National Tax Administration Act. Among other things, it protects the interests of workers employed in the combined institutions so far. The bill provides for a simplification of the appeal procedure, which will be an effective step towards shortening the proceedings, in line with the expectations of taxpayers who have repeatedly applied for their duration, which is the main concern of the Polish authorities on the way to providing the budget with statutory public tributes. The above-mentioned draft laws are a step in the right direction, towards a deep reform of the tax administration, which has been raised by the environment concerned for many years. Their adoption will increase consistency in the implementation of tax and customs collection tasks and improve the use of staff and technical resources of the combined institutions. However, in our view, the draft laws submitted should be amended in relation to the issues which I have raised regarding ensuring the certainty of the legal circulation and the security of taxpayers as parties to the proceedings. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, subject to changes in the draft laws I mentioned, will support the submitted projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u350	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u351	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The fact that this evil bill will bring chaos in the area of tax and tax administration and also poses a threat to a few dozen Customs employees losing jobs, said my predecessors. Prof. Modzelewski also spoke about the fact that this law was negatively assessed by the Supreme Court and by the authority of Law and Justice in the field of taxation. High Izbo! Honourable Members of the Applicant! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, there are no indicators of the impact of its implementation, both reducing the scale of tax fraud and increasing the efficiency of collection of tax and customs duties and reducing the cost of functioning of the tax administration. You have not carried out any analysis of the costs of the tax administration, no rules on the financing of the tax administration, no mention of the types of costs, including salaries, other current costs and investment expenditure, and the mutual relationship of tax and non-tax tasks carried out by tax authorities under the Finance Minister. I would like to ask you to present such standards. The merger of two groups of functions, i.e. tax policy and enforcement of tax law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This may lead to unclear criteria for the appointment and dismissal of the heads of the tax authorities, as well as the influence of the entity shaping the State's tax policy on the exercise of tax law...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u352	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u353	...by issuing binding interpretations of legislation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u354	Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u355	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting to experience a kind of déjà vu because it reminds me again of a time when officials who had IDs could come into control of a small company at any time. Because today, a clerk who has this card and will be able to enter any control, he will not enter a large company, because a large company, with a lot of lawyers, will do great with it, but small, microscopic companies will be afraid of it, will be afraid again of tax repression of officials, who with this magic card will mean more. Art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In fact, 3 of the draft law contains very general grounds for the initiation of checks on legitimacy, which may constitute a field for abuse, especially since customs and treasury control is more burdensome for the taxpayer and a greater range of powers of officers. Since you are so used to this recording, was it not worth writing it in a clear way, e.g. that it will be possible to initiate a criminal-treasure check on the basis of the card shown if the checks are intended to secure evidence of a tax offence or a tax offence. And, of course, the question is, do you not see that the initiation of customs-credit control on the so-called. the identity card should be an exception, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Very well interpreted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u356	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The planned reorganisation of the tax administration assumes the creation of a consolidated unit instead of three existing institutions separately. This clearly raises concerns about the reduction in employment and consequently the fate of the people released, especially given the fact that most customs officials are over 50 years old. Moreover, as a result of the proposed reform, many officers of this formation face a sudden loss of the benefits and powers appropriate to uniformed services. Furthermore, as with any significant reorganisation, the planned reform of the tax administration may at least cause a temporary disruption of the functioning of the combined institutions, which, in such sensitive matters as collection of public claims and the protection of the rule of law and the security of the state and citizens can have severe and difficult effects to reverse. Therefore, I ask the projectors to identify solutions guaranteeing the protection of the rights of Customs officials and to clarify what mechanisms have been envisaged in order to avoid a temporary reduction in the efficiency of the tax administration as a result of planned profound reorganisation changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u358	Thank you. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u359	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Personal Data Protection Act defines the concept of sensitive data. The catalogue of information covered by this concept is closed. The legislator provided for specific requirements for the processing of sensitive personal data under separate legal provisions. According to Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Section 2 (2) of the Act on the Protection of Personal Data The processing of sensitive personal data is permitted provided that a specific provision of another law permits the processing of such data without the consent of the data subject and provides full guarantees of their protection. Such wording means that the processing of sensitive data is permitted on the basis of separate provisions, e.g. the provision of a special law clearly indicates sensitive personal data or certain types of data belonging to this particular category. Art. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 of the proposed law does not comply with the above mentioned provisions. requirements, because it does not give rise to the right to process data without the consent of the person concerned. Although the provision concerning the lack of consent of the person to whom the data are to be processed is contained in Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 project, but it seems insufficient. This provision is general in nature and gives the possibility to process personal data, while Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 2 is a specific regulation relating only to sensitive data. Consequently, for the processing of sensitive data to be possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is necessary to amend Article. 47, so that its wording is consistent with the Data Protection Act. Hence my question: Are these the intentions of the applicants? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u360	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u361	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question about the article. 172 introductory provisions. Under this provision, there is an actual verification of the employees of the fiscal apparatus. While tax and customs officials become employees or officials of the National Tax Administration, the continuation of employment or service relationships is subject to a written proposal from the competent authority for new working or service conditions. If such a proposal is not made or is not accepted by a staff member or officer, the relationship shall cease. It is important that the submission or non-submission of this proposal is left to the discretion of the legal authority in relation to the employment or service relationship and that the absence of a declaration of acceptance or refusal of acceptance of the proposal leads to the termination of the employment relationship. Such solutions should be regarded as unacceptable, for they give rise to unwarranted uncertainty on the part of workers and officers. Don't you think that this impreciseness and great freedom of the authorities presenting a proposal for new working conditions or services undoubtedly undermine the interests of the weaker party in the relationship of work, i.e. the worker? In our view, each person should receive a proposal for new working conditions, especially since the project does not foresee any criteria to be followed in the selection of employees to whom new working conditions will be proposed. Do you not think that it is necessary in such a situation to ensure proper control of the acts entrusting these relations to work by independent courts - labour courts? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u362	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions for the Minister and one question for the rapporteur. To the Minister: What were the main reasons for the consolidation of three companies, tax administration, tax control and customs? Please state the main reasons. Come on, will this affect the level of public danin? The next question is, have there been other major reforms of the tax services in recent years, or is this the only one? And to the rapporteur: During the work of the subcommittee, did representatives of the social side have the opportunity to comment on the establishment of the National Tax Administration? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u364	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I come from Przemyśl, the city of the largest customs office in the country, the city where this customs office is a significant employer. Hence my question: If you choose the location of the voivodship branch of the National Tax Administration, will you take into account the mechanisms and the social consequences and the impact on the local labour market - the sense of the location - will this seat have? Why am I asking this? We as the Poselski Kukiz Club15 always advocate that the headquarters, whether central or voivodeship, be located where it makes sense and some connection with the region. That's why we don't think the maritime authorities should. in Warsaw, only by the sea, whether in Szczecin or in Gdansk, mining offices should not be in Warsaw again, only in Silesia, and an office such as the National Tax Administration or an office closely connected with customs clearance should be located in such a city as Przemyśl, which is directly connected with the three borders, i.e. the border in Korczowa, the border in Medyce and the border in Krościenko, and in the near future also with the border in Malhowice. That's why I wanted to ask you if these are the mechanisms you're predicting in your choice of location, whether you're presuming that Rzeszów will be based in our district. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u366	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u367	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Polish Customs Service works very well. This service is confirmed by a high assessment by the World Bank, a credible and professional institution. Why, then, should it be removed? Why can it not act as an independent institution under the European Customs Code? Why are such important reforms concerning fiscal and customs administration moving in such a hurry, as drafts written on the knee, poorly prepared projects, burdened with errors? There are amendments, hundreds of amendments. What the impact will be, it is not difficult to predict: budget losses instead of increased revenues, chaos and a significant deterioration of the situation of fiscal and customs workers. Is that supposed to be an incentive for them to continue their work? It's not just irresponsible action, it's harmful action. Just think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u368	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u369	Mrs. Marshal! In the course of Mrs Czernow's speech... Minister, perhaps you still have time to withdraw from this reform. There are complex projects, we will vote whether we will accept them or not. There's still time to back out. Ten years ago, these projects were consulted. Normally, for a normal person and for all procedures it is unfortunately too long. You have dreamed that you will only appoint your officials. I'd like to be here... So what if the social side and customs officers were involved in this part? I was a member of the subcommittee, I saw this work and these amendments, and I can bet there were at least a thousand of them. So that, ladies and gentlemen, every project should be dealt with correctly. I have a question for the Minister if he's going to turn to this... Because it is important that before the entry into force of this law also settle the issue of the citizens' draft law on uniform pensions for customs officers. I would like to ask the Minister: Do you have any analysis of how many customs duties are carried out in Poland, which could not be cleared? That's what we need to focus on, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the goods transported by Poland should be processed here, because this is money for us. Once again, there's no guarantee of working for everyone, there's no telling what's gonna happen to the civic project...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u370	Finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u371	...and this is a poorly prepared reform. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u372	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the club appearances, such a hypothetical purpose of this law - the purpose of politicising the customs-treasure service - was strongly defined. [[It's as real as ever.]] I don't know what you're saying. When the Civic Platform introduced a bill on the establishment of the National Centre for Research and Development, was the purpose of filling the posts of all employees of this centre members of the Platform? After all, it is absurd what you say, after all, it is impossible. [[But that's what you do.]] That is why I am addressing the Minister: How can we analyse the purpose that Mr Platform spoke of here, that the fundamental aim is to assassinate positions in these newly created customs-treasure units? That's one thing. Second question. Minister, a fellow Member of the Modern State called for some magical IDs, referring to the times of the Polish People's Republic. Tell me what kind of I.D. here the Member spoke and how these legitimacys were to be abused. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the Minister a question, although it is not a government project, but supported by the government: What is the purpose of continuous customs control? Why are you creating repressive solutions without any justification? We introduced, among others. at second reading, an amendment which is intended to amend this so that permanent checks are admissible only if there is a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence or of a tax offence or of a criminal offence in an organised criminal group. Now the question is whether you are able to support it. Because, in fact, if you think about it, it's just a lot of unwarranted inconveniences for entrepreneurs to be able to carry out permanent checks in all circumstances. Given that most entrepreneurs run their own businesses, supervise accounting work and are responsible for their businesses, do not have large, extensive management boards, often they will not be able to run these companies. We wouldn't want to condemn them to being subject to continuous, regular customs checks, but actually this solution should be applied at reasonable times. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u376	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u377	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to say a word about Mr Nobleman's question. Namely, sir, you are the master of firing people from the bill. I will remind you of the following laws: civil service, state administration, aviation law, even horse racing law or law amending the name of the Academy of National Defence to the Academy of War Arts. After all, it was all about firing people from the bill. The questions I have are about information systems. We know that tax administration and Customs systems are not consistent, compatible. Can you do it in two months? However, we know that Customs works on the basis of the EU Customs Code, and contact with other customs services is as correct and good as possible. Another question from the civilization sphere. What number of officers is involved in civilization with 14 thousand. Officers? What will the degradation of Customs officers, even from the ranks of officers, be like? On what salary will officers be demoted? Which measures will be regulated e.g. their ZUS contributions after civilizing their work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u378	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u379	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question in the context of Art. 61 draft law. In fact, this article abolishes the local jurisdiction of the heads of customs offices for the purpose of carrying out checks. The authors of the project indicate that such a solution will enable the heads of customs and treasury offices to carry out checks throughout the country, regardless of the location of the branch or part of the controlled company. Nevertheless, it must be borne in mind that such a solution is not only burdensome but also costly to controlled taxpayers, and it will also make it more difficult to reach the material truth and the taxpayer's active participation in customs-treasure control. It cannot be excluded that, in relation to the taxable person from the northern part of Poland, customs and treasury control will be initiated by the head of the customs and treasury office from the south of Poland. Therefore, the taxpayer will have to go to the other end of Poland in order to get to know the material collected by the body. Why do you want to make it more difficult for a controlled taxpayer not to exercise its procedural rights, i.e. participation in control activities? Aren't you afraid that the solution you are proposing will not only make it harder for the controller to participate in the control, but also make it harder to get to the material truth? I am very curious to hear from the Minister about this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u380	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marian Banaś will be the first to answer questions by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u381	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the statements made by the ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to say that firstly, the reform we are doing is at least 8, 9 years too late. You know very well that in 2004, when Poland entered the European Union, the Western border was abolished. Then it turned out that in the situation almost 15 thousand. Customs officers don't really work for them right now. No one then leaned on it, did not think that something had to be done to hire and reform the existing formations in a rational manner. We had to solve this problem in 2005 and 2007 because most of the officers were allocated to the eastern borders, to the borders of the European Union at that time, and of course it was a huge drama for families. There have even been various tragedies, which I will not talk about, you know that very well. We have somehow managed to solve this problem in part. The second thing is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to justify the existence of such a number of officers, the tax oversight task of excise duty handling for officers was taken over. This was done in a completely reckless way. And what happened? To the fact that employees who were just taken from special tax supervision had different salaries than officers doing virtually the same job. We have witnessed many conflicts in their work. Some people wanted to work, others didn't want to work. It was really out of order and it went on for years, practically to this day. Another very important thing. In these eight years, ladies and gentlemen, customs officers and IRS have received virtually no raises. Not much, the reform was carried out, among others. including value, and the entire association of officers was harmed because the circle was closed in terms of promotions for other workers who were very capable, but were inconvenient and simply could not be further promoted. And another very important thing that needs to be said here, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about why we need to do this reform. Today, the cost of this tax administration and tax control is the largest in Europe, i.e. 1.6 in relation to the revenue collected, in relation to other countries such as Spain and Ireland, or other countries where it is 0,8. It's almost half as much as in other countries. As far as the efficiency of these formations is concerned, the figures speak for themselves. I have already said in the previous debate that during these 8 years the VAT gap has increased from 20 billion to 80 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, enforcement arrears from 9 billion have increased to 65 billion. So I ask, should we continue to wait and watch our money run away? And that means that this crime has evolved in an organized manner. If we do not create a functioning organism at the moment, which will really take a firm fight against the grey zone, not only with VAT extortioners, but with fraud, with false invoices, then this situation will continue and we will have losses in the budget all of us. This will apply to each of us, we will pay extra, each of our fellow Members, each of our citizens will pay extra for it. I had a big drama last night. Ladies and gentlemen, you came to me and said, Minister, I'll jump out of this window if you don't help me. And I said, "Ma'am, what happened? Well, I'm an entrepreneur, I'm a transporter, and in 2013, 2014 I had control of the Tax Office. For eight years, legally operating foreign entities registered abroad have supplied me with fuel from tanks. I bought it. The IRS knew it, all the services knew it, the D.A. knew it, the courts knew everything, and no one went after it, and we were treated badly because we now have to pay VAT and excise. And how are we supposed to live now if we can't pay it? Ladies and gentlemen, these are the consequences. the lack of reform and lack of responsible action, which has taken place in recent years. I don't want to accuse anyone, I'm just stating the facts. That is why we have taken these measures in a responsible manner as soon as this opportunity has opened up to us. I've taken up this assignment. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main elements, the main reasons for this reform we have to do, and there is no other solution. And another thing. You're saying that we're going to politicize it in some way. No, it's not. I'm just going to point out what happened after 2007, because I had the privilege of being undersecretary of state and head of the Customs Service. Well, ladies and gentlemen, all my directors who proved themselves because of the increase in income, we were then reducing that amount of execution, were released. And that wasn't politics? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we've only made one move in eight months. We've changed directors, but we've changed them from directors to deputies, because you've appointed them. And what effect? We have 9 billion more charges compared to the previous year. That's 9%. more, so these effects are. It's not a matter of politics. We're buying... And we have given these people here only two meters, which they effectively implement: retrievability, that is the issue of retrievability, and reduction of executions and debts. And there are results to this. And there were over 100 different meters. People were reporting, wasting time, but it didn't have much budgetary impact. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not taking any more time. I will answer in detail every question that has been asked here, but I say that there is no concern that this section of hard control will threaten honest entrepreneurs. That's why we did it so that honest entrepreneurs, those who really pay their taxes, didn't have any fear that they'd be chased. We want to protect them. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to deal with really organized crime, but this requires an instrument. It wasn't there until today. People were even afraid to go into control. Just ask the tax inspectors, ask the various others, customs officers, if they're going to check where they actually feel a threat. No, because they're scared. There is no safety element that should be neither an instrument, because some of the powers have an IRS in the interview, some are in the Customs Service, but there is no compounded good instrument that will be in this structure, because we want to mix it up. The second thing - we want one database. It can't be that after a few weeks, it's the inspector, the employee, who finds out what's going on with him, what his situation really looks like, because they have an advantage over us. Now we have to make sure that after a few hours we know everything about this entity. So it won't be random checks, it'll just be checks actually refined on the basis of a risk analysis. We're going to control where there really is an attempt to extort money from the budget. By eliminating this type of activity, however, we give protection to honest entrepreneurs so that they can think about how to develop their business. On the other hand, the point is that there should be no controls. Too much, because today the IRS was in control, the IRS was in control, customs was in control, everyone was in control. And how can you do business? I used to do this, too, because I had this situation, that I was out of a job, I had a wolf ticket, and I know what it looks like on the other hand. A man must have time to think, to organize his business. To this end, we are doing our business and the whole reform - so that those who want to work honestly have time for it and do not fear it, and have protection on our part. And they're gonna have it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u382	Thank you very much. I now ask that the representative of Mr Łukasz Schreiber's applicants be heard. Are you an MP? There isn't? [[There it is, there it is.]] [[But Luke's gone.]] Here you go, now Mr Wojciech Murdzek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think that part of this discussion could probably be different, or at least it should be, because the speeches that were here often referred to the original version of the project and, on the other hand, there were many amendments that appeared. Therefore, after a large number of amendments, it has to be acknowledged, but it was the consequence of tens of hours of joint work, the Supreme Court's opinion, Prof. Modzelewski simply does not apply to the version we are talking about today, and it is definitely different from the one we are discussing at the moment. In addition, Prof. Modzelewski's opinion is quoted in a selective manner, because if you read this opinion, even though it refers to the original version, there is also this part of the positives and it is unnecessarily silenced. And that's, I think, very important to know what we're talking about right now. Then, of course, such statements as chaos, legislative bubble, cannot be improved, are simply unjustified. I think that after several dozen hours working together with the social side, because practically representatives of the customs services have worked with us for several dozen hours, spending their time, commuting, you can ask whether any consultation, because it is such a cool sign, have a more intense character than these dozen hours: reading, getting acquainted with dozens of documents sent by so-called. the social side. They have all been made by Members, I hope, at least I am talking about myself, read, we have read them. They were also the subject of careful work by the Ministry's staff. Therefore, let us not abuse the word "consultation," because such intensive work was a kind of very important consultation, but consultations do not make it impossible to abandon a certain reform model. The Minister quoted this, said why this model is being introduced. Of course, when there's a false premise, the conclusions are wrong, and those conclusions that are still going to scare workers or depreciate their work, like, you're gonna fire 65 grand. - Ladies and gentlemen, this number is not even a reference to the number of customs officers, it is a reference to the entire service, as if the whole tax service would be released at one time, including customs officers. After all, it is simply frivolous and irresponsible to say such things. Of course, then the thesis that someone feels an element of uncertainty, because it's probably also a natural human emotion, but it's not true. At the same time, customs officials have always assured us - an example of their comments, their conclusions point to a very high level of responsibility - that all this process does not affect the quality of their work. It is also clear that we are dealing with dozens of probably, if we count, maybe several hundred amendments, but with Mrs. Skowronska I could bet here because there were certainly not a thousand amendments. Both draft laws are more than 500 articles, and not every amendment has been tabled. Therefore, it is again some element of building a simply false image. The emergence of phrases such as the blurring of competence... Ladies and gentlemen, how would someone get acquainted with this and see what precision we were celebrating, we also tried to take into account the voices of practitioners when it comes to customs staff... We have just made sure that there is no lack of consistency, lack of fluidity between what is now and the new service of the National Tax Administration. This is the work that is done, and such a thesis that there is no telling where any perfect project comes from, and we, as Members of the Ministry's staff, are just raising our hands - the thesis that you have preached many times - is not true. We're here to work hard, and in this case, this job was extremely hard. It was a multi-hour work on many documents, but I hope that this final picture brings us closer to a well-prepared reform, its smooth implementation and, above all, good results. I think - I even have it written here, but I will not prolong - that a number of changes improving the status of officers also occurred when listening to all the comments they have made. In general, it may be a little fuzzy, because - what the Minister said - it is impossible to say that 15 thousand. The officers will continue to work. But it is not true that there were no answers, because these responses to the number of officers in the committee were given by the Minister and he also referred to the work on the pension project, print 30 - is a civic project - informing about the advanced work on the project. It is not true that these issues remain unanswered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u384	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Andrzej Noblehta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was one question specifically addressed to the rapporteur. It concerned the possibility for the social party to participate in the process of these two draft laws. So, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague Wojciech Murdzek said, during the three days of the Extraordinary Commission's work on investigating these two draft laws, they had the opportunity to participate - and they participated - representatives of the social side, mainly union officers from customs and tax administrations. This participation was active, everyone had the opportunity to ask questions when discussing each of the articles. On the other hand, on the statement made by Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, I would like to say that she has gone too far, saying that there have been a thousand amendments, because 276 articles were included in the National Tax Administration Act, and not in every article there were amendments. On the other hand, there were probably 250 articles in the draft of the second law. In total there were 500 articles and these amendments could be about 200 so that this scale is multiplied here by the opposition. On the other hand, I would like to thank the representatives of the social side that they have worked very actively for all days - and we have worked for 3 days after 8 and 10 hours - persistently, paying attention, often suggesting very logical solutions, and we have benefited from these solutions. This is where the legislators worked actively, and I also want to thank them very warmly. This participation of the social side can be regarded as such a public hearing, because such a broad and active participation has practically replaced this form of public hearing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u386	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that amendments were tabled at the time of the second reading to the draft laws submitted in prints 925 and 926 respectively, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Committee on Public Finances in order to submit a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: First reading of the Commission's draft law on amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners (Print No 904). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to present the justification for the bill. I am declaring a two-minute recess, because the Member is already coming to the O.R. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 09 h 17 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We're looking at item 18 of the agenda. And I would very much like to ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present the justification of the Commission's draft law on amending the Polish Charter Act and the Foreigners Act, contained in print No. 904. Commission for Communication with Poles Abroad at its meeting of 13 September this year. took the legislative initiative to amend the Polish Charter Act of 7 September 2007 - hence the conclusion that September is a good month for the Polish Charter. The amendment is the result of discussions between the Commission and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and clarification of the law on the competence of voivodships to issue decisions on monetary benefits for holders of the Polish Charter. In order to justify the need for the proposed amendments, I will quote the most important points in the explanatory memorandum of the bill. The Act on the Charter of a Pole in the current normative form provides that the authority competent to issue decisions granting the benefit to holders of the Charter of a Pole settling in Poland and to pay it shall be the head of the person entitled to the benefit in Poland. With a view to linking the entitlement to the benefit of money to the fact that an application for a permanent residence permit for which the voivode has jurisdiction, it is appropriate that the voivode be also the granting authority and that the oldosta would remain the competent authority for its payment. Secondly, the existing provisions of the Polish Charter Act do not provide for mechanisms to eliminate situations of multiple applications for a monetary benefit by the same person, e.g. to several persons and do not restrict the circle entitled to apply for benefits to persons who apply for permanent residence permits after the entry into force of the provisions of the Act on the possibility of applying for benefits. Leaving unregulated e.g. the issue may lead to a situation in which persons who have applied for and obtained permanent residence permits for the possession of the Polish Charter in previous years will also apply for benefits. That would be over 10,000 in total. persons from 2014 to 2016, which would be contrary to the objective mentioned above. benefits, which are aid during the initial period of stay in Poland to the holders of the Polish Charter, who decided to settle in our country. Amendments proposed in Article 24c are the consequence of the appointment of the voivode in place of the old-fashioned as the authority competent to receive and deal with applications for a cash benefit. It is proposed that the governor informs the voivode of the level of use of the grant for payment of cash benefits and that the voivodship informs the Minister responsible for home affairs of the amount necessary to secure the payment of cash benefits resulting from applications for money benefits and the level of use of the grant by the starosts. Time limits for the presentation of the above mentioned document: the information shall be specified in the implementing rules issued pursuant to Article. 24d Act on the Polish Charter. And one last thing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 24d proposed an amendment to the delegation for the Minister for Home Affairs to the regulation on cases relating to the granting of grants to cover the payment of cash benefits by clarifying that the above mentioned. The Regulation will also specify the detailed arrangements for the allocation of the special-purpose reserve for the payment of cash benefits and for the transfer of funds to cover expenditure related to the provision of these benefits. Finally, I would like to say that the amendment that we are working on today, in my opinion, is mainly a clarification of the current shape of the Polish Charter Act. I ask the High House to support the amendments presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u388	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Michał Dworczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u389	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to declare, given the nature of the proposed amendment, which clarifies the provisions of the Polish Charter Act, that the Law and Justice Club will fully support the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u390	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform club in relation to the amended Polish Charter Act, print No. 904. The amendment is necessary because the work on the bill was hasty and therefore many provisions have not been clarified. The government has prepared an amendment and put it into the hands of Members so that this road, this legislative procedure, can be carried out faster. What does he notice? The explanatory memorandum states that three issues need to be settled. It seems that not only formal or minor, but serious, legislative. The first point is to identify the voivode instead of the old-fashioned one as the one appropriate for granting cash benefits. The second point is to provide mechanisms to ensure the efficient use of budgetary resources for the payment of benefits. Finally, the third issue, namely to ensure effective monitoring of the use of the limits of resources planned in the special-purpose reserve for the payment of these benefits. In this arrangement, I'm going to analyze these newization records. The indication of voivodeship instead of old age, in short, will result in a significant extension of the administrative process and will be very burdensome for the beneficiaries. Why? Well, the application which should be submitted to the old man, because it is to be the closest to the place of residence, will be submitted to the voivodeship. For what reason? From the fact that an application for permanent residence will also be submitted to the voivodeship. It is true, but there will be two applications for permanent residence and cash benefits. At the same time, these conclusions will have to be evaluated by someone. By who? By the governor responsible for the beneficiary's place of residence. So the voivode will be sending questions to the old man. The Starosta will collect materials that he will send to the voivodeship. The governor will analyze them and send the money to the old town. And that's half poor, but let's imagine what happens when the beneficiary leaves for another voivodeship and doesn't have a bank account. Then he'll have to come every month to collect the money. As far as the effect is concerned, it will be extremely difficult for the beneficiary - much more difficult than it was mentioned in previous records. Second point: efficient use of resources. A long procedure is an expensive financial service for this program. In addition, the Act enters into force on 1 January 2017 and the entire information system has only just begun to prepare, so it is probably real that it will only be in 2018. Therefore, it seems that this mess, simply a mess that will arise due to the lack of the system, will certainly affect the efficiency of the use of these funds, but this will be monitored. Finally, the third issue - effective monitoring of the use of the limit. Well, after using 75% the payment system is to be blocked by the voivodship, because it has already been proposed, and then it will be a bit like accumulation of conclusions in the totalizator, because people who do not receive money in a given year will collect, send these applications to the voivodship and there will be a lot of them. Mr President, in 2015 - I was especially sure - there was also a talk about 10,000, but this is less, 7.5 thousand. persons have requested a permanent residence card, so they will have the right to grant the 9-month allowance of 6 000. zł. [[It won't.]] As we heard in the committee, the sum reserved for this purpose is 30 million and a simple bill of 7.5 thousand. times 6,000. It's a great sum, at least a third. So, in summary, the novel is of the nature of such unnecessary centralization, accumulation of all tasks in the hand of the voivode, so it will extend this procedure, it will be very uncomfortable for the beneficiaries, for those Poles with the Polish Charter, who are very looking forward to dignified and extremely courtesyful, I would say, treatment. I don't know if we can talk about it. Therefore, in this situation, the PO club will support the amendment, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is necessary, with doubts and subject to Article. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u392	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Wojciech Bakun, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would welcome Mrs Fabisiak's doubts. In fact, there was a discussion on this subject in committee work, and we also have doubts about the flow of information between the relevant administrative bodies. As a Kukiz club15, of course, we have no doubt about the validity of the Polish Charter, it is a document that is absolutely necessary, I do not see the need to mention all its advantages here. We have repeatedly discussed this issue both in this Chamber and in the Parliamentary committees. It is also undisputed that the Polish Charter is intended for people who feel connected with Poland, who feel Poles who want to mark this Polishness. Unfortunately, after several years of experience connected with the Polish Charter, we know that it does not always end up in the appointed hands, it is often used by people who treat it only and only as such a trampoline to Poland, but with Polishness they do not really have much in common, especially now, after the amendment, which gives additional powers related to the fact that if a person with the Polish Charter wishes to settle permanently, return to Poland, he will get additional cash benefits. This activity can further drive these, I don't know what to call it, bad cards of a Pole, cards of a Pole issued to the wrong people. That is why we are all in favour of this amendment, of course we will support it. On the other hand, what we would like to pay particular attention to are provisions that protect against fraud in the form of irregularities both in the acquisition of the Polish Charter and - after this amendment at the beginning of the year - also related to abuses related to the alleged settlement by these persons and the collection of benefits by them, cash benefits in the territory of Poland. Unfortunately, there are no mechanisms in the bill, as well as in the amended amendment, which protect against such practices, when, for example, a person allegedly settling in Poland and thus receiving a whole range of allowances and cash benefits will go back abroad. There is no control measure that will capture such a person and stop payment. We have reported these concerns to the President during the discussion in committee. These concerns are known. We know that this can happen, but we are not legally protected from it. We heard that after a year of functioning of this provision we will examine how many people of the Polish Charter, settling in Poland and receiving these cash benefits used for the wrong purpose, i.e. - in plain language - our state budget was robbed, went abroad and basically received some benefits for a year. There are no safeguards against this, and as the Kukiz Posel Club15 we support this amendment, but we appeal both to the committee and to the members of the governing party to lean on this problem, so that in fact next year we do not cry over spilled milk, that again we have been deceived for several, several million and in principle Poland has nothing of this as a country, nor have Poles left on the other side of the border who want to settle in Poland really, because it will turn out that the funds for this settlement have been used by people who have used them for their own purposes and yet remain in Ukraine and have little in common with Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u394	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u395	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are discussing an amendment to the law that was recently adopted by the Sejm. This amendment is necessary because, indeed, the arguments for it are serious and relate to a number of issues that have already been mentioned. Let me just remind you that the first issue is really a transfer of competence to make a decision on witnessing to the voivodship. This is justified by the fact that the voivode actually has better equipment and information that will allow him to make this decision better. The second point is to seal the system, that is to prevent some people from benefiting from this assistance repeatedly, once as family members, otherwise alone. Another issue that raises doubts - Mrs Fabisiak said so - is indeed the issue of payment of benefits in the event of a change of residence. It will be a complication, but it is difficult to see a better solution here. We'll probably get our countrymen to travel. I also share concerns about the introduction of this information system, which is needed in this regard, as it can in particular protect against excessive overrun of the limits referred to in the Act. I also share the concerns of the speakers about the lack of security in the event that the recipients would return to their country and stay there and receive benefits from our country, which, of course, is not in line with the intention of the legislator. I hope we can work out a solution to this problem. I take for a good coin the declaration by the President that this will be the case. I paid attention in the course of the work on the Polish Charter Act, on the original law, that our doubts arise about the granting of the Polish Charter by means of certificates obtained from Polish organizations. I'm just afraid that this road can be overused, not only in situations where it's really hard to get to the documents, because they just don't exist. I share this view that there were different situations in life, sometimes our compatriots had to destroy all traces of Polishness in order to survive the repression of the Soviet authorities or others, it is true, but there are situations - such signals come to us - that Poles' Charters were also issued to people with no connection with Poland, they were simply issued, abusing the entire system. To sum up, we will support this amendment. Once again, I would like to thank you for working on this bill and the main act in the spirit of agreement. It was consistent, good cooperation. I wish there were much, much more, because then our work in the Seym would look more pleasant than it is in today's reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u396	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Baszka, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Polish People's Party to present a position towards the draft law on amending the Polish Charter Act and the Act on Foreigners, print No. 904. The amendments presented above all relate to the fact that, instead of the old-timer, the voivode is identified as the competent authority for granting a monetary benefit to the holders of the Polish Charter and the Minister responsible for home affairs is established by a higher authority in these matters. The project concerns the provision of mechanisms to ensure that funds are spent from the special provision for the payment of cash benefits and to improve the flow of information between the authorities concerned about the funds being raised and spent. Finally, it concerns monitoring the use of the limit of appropriations planned in the Budget Act for the payment of cash benefits to holders of the Polish Charter settling in Poland and taking action where further payment of benefits in amounts resulting from applications made in these cases could lead to the limit of the financial resources reserve being exceeded. I would like to say that the Polish People's Party will support the amendment of the bill and does not comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u398	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneus to profit, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Commission's draft law amending the Polish Charter Act and the Foreigners Act, print No. 904. This project concerns improvements in the functioning of the Polish Charter Act of 7 September 2007. Changes are envisaged for, among others, the designation of the voivode instead of the old-fashioned one as the competent authority for granting the money benefit and the establishment of the Minister responsible for home affairs as a higher authority in these matters. In addition, the procedure for recording the fact that an application for a benefit has been submitted and the decision has been taken in the relevant register or records has been clarified. The introduction of these regulations will eliminate multiple requests for a cash benefit by the same person. The need for new rules is also linked to the need to provide mechanisms to ensure that funds are spent efficiently from the special provision for the payment of cash benefits and to improve the flow of information between the authorities concerned on matters relating to requested and spent funds. Ensure effective monitoring of the use of the limit of funds planned in the Budget Act for the payment of cash benefits to holders of the Polish Charter settling in Poland and taking action where further payment of benefits in amounts resulting from applications made in these cases could lead to the overrun of the reserve limit, it is a duty of the state administration and the contested act must ensure effective legal mechanisms in this respect. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports the solutions submitted, but the procedure for the Polish Charter Act also raises questions as to whether the measures applied are appropriate to the policy addressed to the Polish Republic. The existing instruments contained in the Polish Charter appear to serve citizens of neighbouring countries more to obtain certain privileges, in particular workers, than to create a global community of people who identify with the Polish national community. This calls for reflection and reflection on the policy of the Polish state in terms of communication with Poland and Poles abroad. Moreover, obtaining the rights deriving from the Polish Charter should start a process leading to full identification with the Polish nation, with its culture, economic interests, civilizational aspirations and the desire to build the prosperity of the Polish state with all these consequences. Therefore, the Polish Charter should be part of the system of acquiring the best Polish human resources distributed around the world and part of a well-thought-out foreign policy on the integration of personnel necessary for the development of the Polish economy. It is therefore in the Polish national interest to conduct active socio-cadre policy on a global scale, as only building open to creativity of human resources will provide the Polish economy with innovative development impulses. The Polish Charter can become an instrument of recruitment for the R &amp; D sector, for industry, for the development of the economy following the famous American visa for H1B geniuses. The Free and Solidarnia Circle supports the proposed regulations, at the same time signaling the need to formulate a new strategy for Poles and Poles abroad beyond the current legislation. Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u400	Thank you very much, sir. There are Members who want to ask questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If so, please sign up if you don't, then I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Question time - 1 minute. [[Voices from the room: Not much. Not much.]] Okay, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u401	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed amendment assumes that if the ceiling is reached 75% the amount planned for the payment of benefits in a given year will continue to be accepted, but their consideration will be suspended until the appropriations for payment are secured in the Budget Act. Recently, measures have been taken to simplify formal legal procedures in seeking to obtain the Polish Charter. This will certainly contribute to the increased efforts of our fellow countrymen living mainly in the East to receive such a card. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether it is planned to include in the budget for future years an increased amount planned for the payment of benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u402	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Hot ice, dead body, dry water, hot ice. These are probably the most common examples of conflicting epithets called oxymoron in art. If the Sejm dominated by the PiS majority adopts amendments to the Polish Charter Act, the listed list of antilogy will have to be added to the Seym Commission for Communication with Poles abroad. As its name suggests, the committee should establish communication with Poles abroad, not hinder it. What can be called, if not a barrier and obstruction, a number of provisions restricting measures for Poles who long for the Polish people and taking away the old age of competence to issue decisions on granting benefits to the holders of the Polish Charter and handing them over to the voivodeship? The reason for the proposed amendments is clear and clear. The Starosts from direct elections are much more independent and capable of independent decisions than brought, unfortunately, to the role of the voivode's minions. The latter in the absence of results in closing Poland to Europe and the world can always be called to the rug and given proper reprimand. The PiS government is dramatically looking for money to carry out the slides of Prime Minister Morawiecki, ridiculing Poland not only with regard to abroad, but also with regard to its compatriots. That can't be allowed. This is not my invention, these are the words of Poles from across the eastern border, who gave me this to say in the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u404	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, thanks to the new regulations that entered into force on 2 September, several tens of thousands of Poles from the East will be able to come to the country. From 1 January, people who wish to become Polish citizens will receive support benefits for 9 months. Meanwhile, the situation with the Polish Charter is getting a little out of hand. The report on the air of one of the Ukrainian television stations shows how easy work can be found in Poland, having only a tourist visa, and also how illegally, for an appropriate fee, obtain the Polish Charter. The report showed that it is not a major problem to obtain the Polish Charter, including by people who do not have Polish ancestors. It has been noted that such a document can simply be bought for the equivalent of $1,300. I have a question for the representatives of the department. Are they familiar with this situation? And will there be any steps and additional safeguards to counter this phenomenon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u406	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm asking the applicant's representative. Mr President, we have not received in the committee an answer to the question of secured funds. So are we to understand that it is supposed that the prognostics are such that fewer people will seek a permanent residence card because the essence of this law is the opposite, or, as I said in my speech, it will be a great accumulation, as in the lottery, will accumulate conclusions for which there will be no money? I don't know what the rule will be then. There may be a call, but I think it's very unfair and very hurtful for these people. The second thing, the most important thing in all of this, is the extension of the procedure, so the fatigue of these people, an extremely long expectation. This is the handover to the voivodeship, this is the centralist system that won't let a man in his place of residence go to the old town, talk to him and explain everything. This is a commitment to the administration, which due to a new, huge task, because it was 7.5 thousand, the prognosis is, to my knowledge, that there will be at least 2,000. There's more because there's power money... Officials will do it quickly, but the essence of the Polish Charter is completely different. So, the record, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which was, was much better. In addition to safeguarding the well-being of the voivode and, above all, the competent minister, what other reasons were behind this and the proposal of such provisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u408	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u409	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask you to clarify whether it will be more effective to support our fellow countrymen from the East, who are legitimizing the Polish Charter, with the benefits given by the voivodeship, than with the previous location of these tasks, at the level of the old-fashioned? Of course, this depends to a large extent on the resources in the budget, but also on the procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u410	Thank you very much, Member. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Jakub Skiba, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Questions actually relate to two directions, i.e. those questions that I can answer as a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Questions were also addressed to the applicant. Now, back to that thread. On the one hand, these are questions concerning possible difficulties for the beneficiaries themselves in accessing those measures which are foreseen by the law, by the amendment mentioned, and, on the other hand, questions concerning the integrity of the system and the impediment to its use for purposes contrary to the law, for unfair purposes or even for the purpose of an infringement. Well, of course, this is a dilemma that applies to every program that is a social programme, is directed to a large crowd and is aimed at achieving some specific effect. In this case, of course, it is about gaining for Poland a number of Poles living in the East or people identifying themselves with Polishness and able to demonstrate their origins. As such, this program must be open. This is an obvious risk that the Polish state is taking, because it seems logical that it would not be right if by opening this proposal, making it more friendly and responding to these needs, we would also think about what sanctions to build and protect ourselves from all these negative aspects. This dilemma is permanent, eternal, and concerns the operation of the administration. The answer to this is one: You have to have an excellent knowledge of all these processes that occur. In this dimension, the proposed amendment is certainly going in the right direction. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration supports it because it considers that only at the level of the voivodships will it be possible to better manage these processes, obtain information, follow up and respond if they are to take the form of pathology. Of course, such pathologies can occur. Experience so far in this area shows that all these phenomena need to be taken very seriously. Therefore, it is certainly the voivodeships who are the best actors of this process and the amendment as such seems to us to be indicated of all measure. As far as the financial dimension is concerned, it was also extremely difficult when the budget was designed to indicate how much interest it would have. You can already see today, on the basis of the requests made this year, that this interest exceeds the amounts that have been set. Therefore, I answer as a representative of the government that it is simply necessary to face amending the budget. I think I've referred to the most important things, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u412	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u413	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In short, I would like to address a few more questions. As I understand, Mrs Fabisiak's question concerned this accumulation of conclusions from earlier years. At least that's how I figured it out. This amendment is why those who have previously applied and have received a residence card will not be able to apply. These statements relate only to those who will apply for them. If we are to discuss this further, Madam, we can also discuss this point after considering it. Mr Bakun said that often the Polish Charter is used by people who should not receive it, i.e. people who do not have Polish roots, but there are no such statistics. I mean, these things happen. Indeed, they are very spectacular, but we also discussed this. I believe that in such situations you simply have to react, use the entry in the Polish Charter Act, which gives you the opportunity to receive this document. The Law and Justice Government was the first to apply this provision. The photographers with the flagship symbolism lost the Pole's Charter. This is how we're going to proceed and we're going to be consistent in this. As I say, it's very spectacular, but it's lucky there are quite rare cases. When it comes to those who will eventually leave after receiving this benefit and will take the funds not for the purpose for which they are intended, as we discussed, I believe that after this year, when we will see what the scale of this phenomenon is, because there will probably be, I agree, we will be able to work out a solution at that time. If anybody has an idea, right, what kind of mechanism can be applied here, then we're open. I am convinced that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will also be open to such ideas. In our view, it was worth risking to run this mechanism as soon as possible so that we could support our fellow countrymen who want to settle in their homeland as soon as possible. As far as the registers are concerned, I think you also spoke of this. There's a danger, of course, but I believe the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can handle it. There was an unfortunate situation that at the moment when the amendment was processed by us, in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister - if I remember - there were some changes to this system, it was not possible to start moving this system immediately. I believe that the administration will deal with this, there are experienced officials working, who have often dealt with crisis situations, so they will certainly be able to deal with this one. Mr Gonciusz asked how much money - I understand, next year - will be for this benefit. That's a question for the government. Of course, it is worth lobbying right now, but for now I think we should be glad that we have PLN 30 million for the year to come. Mrs Gądek said things about minions, voivods. I must say this: I support Mr Gryglas's appeal that we should talk substantively, not in some political pushover, so that we do not introduce politics here. I have the impression that you have not read these amendments at all, because what we are proposing is to make life easier for our fellow Members from the East, not to make it more difficult, as you suggested. If I were mean, I'd say it's worth changing the ghostwriter that's preparing your speeches. Mrs Krzywonos asked about buying the Polish Charter. This is true, but fortunately he is not very common, although statistics do not exist. He's not about buying a card on the principle that someone's going to bribe a consul. This concerns something completely different, namely the counterfeiting of documents, which are a certificate of Polish origin. And here we have to trust the consuls, because the only person who has a chance to verify these documents is the consul. If you have any ideas on what security mechanisms to put in place, we're open to it. I'm pretty sure the Foreign Office didn't either. But so far no one has come up with a better way than well-trained consuls who can capture such cases. I am convinced that there are too many such situations, and I always say that even if she gets 100 people who shouldn't get this Polish card, it is better that these 100 people get it than that one who belongs to doesn't get it, so let's follow this principle, I urge all of you. Mrs Tomaszewska's question has already been answered by the Minister, so I think that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u414	Thank you, sir. In corrigendum, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, you did not understand me, so I will explain this very graphically. 30 million, which are reserved, is enough for 5,000. applicants for this. Meanwhile, in 2015 there were 7.5 thousand of them, and this number is expected to increase. Therefore, the sum is far from sufficient. What's going to happen? This will be blocked, not so much the submission of applications as their implementation. And it's gonna be this big accumulation, 'cause it's gonna be about $5,000. conclusions. This will be the great accumulation of proposals that will not be realized. What's behind this? Extreme bitterness. And that's all it is. And that is why I asked the Ministry to explain, with the hope that I would hear about larger sums, but the answer was very general, and here we need economic concretes, if we really want to make amends to Poles who are waiting for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u416	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Commission a draft law amending the Act on the Polish Charter and the Act on Foreigners, contained in print No 904, to the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 18.10. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 55 hours 18 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda: 19. First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the rules for repayment of certain debts resulting from credit and loan agreements (print No 811). 20. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the introduction of a ban on granting such loans (Print No 729). 21. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the restructuring of foreign exchange housing loans in connection with the change of foreign exchange rates to the Polish currency (print No 877). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Maciej Łopiński, to present the justification for the bill contained in the print no. 811.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill, which I am presenting today on behalf of the President of the Republic, should be regarded as the first step taken by the State towards restoring equality between the parties to certain credit agreements. This equality has been affected in our assessment in the case of foreign currency credit agreements. The banks have used their dominant role in this type of credit relationship over the years, shaping it in such a way as to benefit on the one hand and free themselves from risk on the other. Irregularities in the provision and handling of foreign currency loans have been reported for many years. Unfortunately, the relevant state institutions were passive in their resolution and today we are in a situation where the scale of these irregularities threatens the financial system in Poland and thus threatens the economy to a large extent. In our view, this condition obliges the legislator to intervene, the main objective of which, in addition to restoring equality between the parties to credit agreements, will be to reduce systemic risk. Interference with existing legal relations is permitted for the reasons described in detail in the justification of the project. The opponents of this regulation are mainly raising the principle of non-retroactivity. Let us remember, however, that the prohibition of retroactivity is not an absolute prohibition. It should also be noted that the banking sector could and should expect regulation to restore the balance of the parties to the legal relationship in question, in some respects. It should be noted that there are already precedents in Polish law as regards the state's legal interference with legal relations that are ongoing or even expired in order to protect consumers. An example of the State's corrective action in the area of mortgages denominated or indexed to foreign currencies is the Act of 29 July 2011 amending the Banking Law Act and certain other laws, so-called. It's an anti-predition bill. Furthermore, the planned intervention cannot be identified, which some people are already trying to do today, with interference in the law of the third power in the State, i.e. in the laws of the courts. The adoption of the law in this area falls within the scope of Parliament's statutory powers. The courts in Poland do not create the law, but they do it, enjoying the quality of independence. The legislator and the executive authorities are required to shape the law underlying the action of the courts. The admissibility of legal intervention in this matter is probably irrefutable for Members of Parliament, since two further parliamentary legislative proposals on this issue will be discussed today, both involving an intervention and both providing for the action of the law backwards. The events of recent months also show that the courts increasingly take into account the position of borrowers that banks have unlawfully treated them in various aspects of the execution of credit agreements. This may in the future put banks in a difficult situation to satisfy courtly confirmed claims of a relatively large group of customers. The President of the Republic is still in favour of a comprehensive and complete solution for the borrower and a systemic solution to the foreign currency credit and loans crisis. A banquet. Therefore, the solution for foreign exchange spreads is the first stage of measures of a Sanitation nature. The president accepted the draft regulatory and supervisory activities proposed by the National Bank of Poland. Through the appropriate steps of the bodies in the Financial Stability Committee, i.e. Minister of Finance, Financial Supervision Commission, National Bank, Banking Guarantee Fund, inter alia by radically increasing the capital requirements of banks with the loans or loans described in their portfolios, it can be made impossible for banks to continue to maintain their currency-related loans. These measures are intended to give rise to concrete bank responses, i.e. above all, to refer to borrowers proposals for favourable changes to credit agreements, resulting in their transformation into gold credit agreements. The President of the National Bank of Poland, on the day of sending the project to the Marshal of the Sejm, stated that the process of conversion would be extended over time, but it would be a reasonable time, not too long, but too short. Distribution during this process will be an important element in maintaining financial stability. The office of the President of the Republic of Poland is now awaiting detailed proposals and will monitor their implementation on an ongoing basis. If the stimulated voluntary restructuring process does not produce visible results, the President of the Republic of Poland is determined and his firm is prepared to return to the concept of a legal solution to this crisis. However, a plan has been chosen which, following the recovery of undue benefits, retains financial security and reduces legal risks, allows effective termination of the case. Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Aware of the differences in the assessment of the project presented and more broadly, the need for statutory intervention in the field of foreign currency loans, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland is affected every day by statements of citizens describing their difficult life situation in connection with the operation of such loans. In order to understand to the end what problem we are dealing with, it is worth getting acquainted with such letters. President Andrzej Duda already during the presidential campaign, but later on he stressed the need to resolve the issue of foreign currency loans as a threat to the financial security of the state and with negative social consequences. In autumn 2015, the President's Office of the Republic of Poland intensified its work on the draft regulation. From October to December 2015, a series of meetings took place with representatives of the social side, notably the association of the bank's unlawfulness, who presented their expectations regarding the future law and the circumstances justifying its adoption. In view of the fact that some of the proposed solutions were difficult to accept in the context of compliance with the Constitution, the firm proposed its own concept of regulation on 15 January 2016. This concept was the subject of opinions formulated in the media as well as correspondence addressed to the firm. The potential financial impact of the implementation of this concept was presented in February 2016. National Bank of Poland on the margins of the annual report on the stability of the financial system. It was also assessed in terms of financial implications by the Financial Supervision Authority. In view of the wealth of legal and economic opinions submitted to the January proposal, the firm was appointed on 8 April. a special team to develop changes and additions to the proposal for a bill on how to restore equality between the parties of some credit agreements and loan agreements. The team completed its work at the end of June and some of its comments were taken into account in the bill submitted. It should be stressed that in parallel with the dialogue with the social side, the President's Office continued its discussions with representatives of the banking sector. During the project, a series of meetings took place with representatives of the Polish Bank Association, presidents of the boards of many banks operating in Poland, participating in the granting of loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies. A group of bank managers also participated on equal terms with the social side in the debate organised by the Polish President's Office on 9 June. under the name "Responsible solution to foreign exchange loans'. This debate was a public summary of all actions to date. During this process, the arguments of all participants in the regulatory process were heard: public institutions, organisations, borrowers and the banking sector. The experts of the firm also met several times with representatives of leading audit firms operating in Poland, which are involved in the financial audit of Polish banks and companies from the financial sector on a daily basis. The subject of these meetings was the possibility of spreading over the balance sheet the effects of the various solutions proposed by the Polish President's Office. The project I am presenting today uses part of the work that has been developed during the above mentioned work. I assume that most of the recommendations submitted during them will translate into non-legislative actions undertaken by the Financial Stability Committee, the Ministry of Finance or the Financial Supervision Commission. High Izbo! Loans to foreign currency were granted in Poland mainly to persons who did not earn in foreign currency from 2000 to 2013 when the Financial Supervision Commission indicated in Recommendation S on good practices in the management of credit exposures secured by mortgage that, I quote: The Bank should only provide mortgage-backed loans to retail customers in the currency in which they obtain income, including for high-income customers. That's the end of the quote. Loans, despite their determination by foreign exchange loans, were very rare. Literally. It was not the payment of the borrower's currency, but merely the determination of the relationship between the amount of the zloty benefit and later the amount of the instalments and the currency. At the end of 2015, the number of loans granted to consumers to foreign currency amounted to more than 713 thousand in Poland. and amounted to over PLN 173 billion, of which to the Swiss franc was denominated or indexed 562 thousand. contracts worth PLN 144 billion. Most of them are mortgage-backed loans, among which the dominant group is residential loans. The question of the scope of clauses used in credit agreements denominated and indexed is debatable, which should be treated as abusive clauses, i.e. in the light of the law. In view of many court rulings and entries in the register of abusive clauses, these doubts have already been practically resolved with regard to clauses allowing banks to convert tranches and loan instalments using exchange tables introduced and set unilaterally by banks, i.e. so-called. spreads. In the Court's view, it is first of all up to the fact that the spread was, in practice, an additional loan commission established only in the context of their own decision and partly collected on the date of payment and partly on the payment of subsequent instalments. The removal of the effects of these clauses is the subject of the project I am presenting. What are the main principles of regulation, Members and Members? Since bank spreads have been established in a manner contrary to applicable law and the benefits collected for their application are undue benefits, creditors will be required to repay them. As far as the scope of the Law is concerned, the regulation concerns indexed and denominated credit agreements and indexed and denomination loans for which a mortgage on immovable property has been established. The purpose of the restriction in the form of a mortgage collateral criterion is to cover the scope of the credit regulation which was used to buy housing, house or parcel, i.e. to satisfy the consumer's housing needs. The draft law covers credit agreements concluded from 1 July 2000 to 26 August 2011, when the Anti-Predition Act allowing repayment of loans in foreign currency entered into force, which significantly reduced the cost for the client which had previously been due to the spread bank. As regards the subject matter, the regulation is addressed to consumers within the meaning of the Civil Code, but also to individuals engaged in a single business activity if they have not made depreciation write-offs on immovable property and did not include the cost of obtaining income from the business activity of interest and other charges under the credit agreement. The regulation provides for an obligation to reimburse benefits collected at the start-up and repayment of a credit for a spread higher than acceptable. The repayment may take the form of a reduction in the capital remaining to be repaid in the case of active loans or payments in the case of expired loans. We assume that the spread, if already collected, should be determined in a fair relation to the level of spreads that are collected in market practice. It was assumed that this fair spread should not exceed by more than 0,5% respectively, the rate of purchase or sale of a given currency announced by the National Bank of Poland. The amounts resulting from the use of higher spreads will be reimbursed. The project envisages a quota limit of 350 000. zł, which is the amount of the capital of the credit in respect of which the consumer is entitled to request a reduction in the capital or repayment of the overpayment. This limit may be exhausted in one credit or benefit from it in respect of more credits. In view of the main assumptions of the regulation, the need to reimburse unduly collected benefits resulting from the application of unauthorised contractual clauses, it would of course be appropriate to reimburse these benefits in full, regardless of the amount of credit granted. Introduction of a limit of 350 thousand in the project On the one hand, it is dictated by the need to balance the legitimate rights of consumers and, on the other hand, by the need to ensure the stability of the financial system. We assume that the legislator has the right to do so, while it is the right of the consumer to demand a refund of more money in legal proceedings. In addition, we must take into account that the legislator has the right to set certain limits on consumer protection, expressed at least in terms of typical benefits in terms of relations with consumers. This is the case in the 2011 Consumer Credit Act, setting the maximum amount of such credit at PLN 255 550. The proposed project adopted an amount of almost 100,000. zloty higher. Firstly, this is due to the fact that mortgage loans are, in principle, higher than consumer loans. Secondly, even if there are no specific limits to the value of a typical housing loan, over a period of several years in the foreign currency credit market, it is possible to determine the average value of the loan that was taken up at that time and to enable the person with minimal own contribution to the large Polish city to purchase the apartment. The designer has set this value for the amount of 350 000 already mentioned. zł. The proposal requires repayment of amounts resulting from the use of excessive spreads with interest of half the statutory interest. These interest rates are intended to compensate the consumer for the decrease in the purchasing power of money and the lost benefits. The proposed interest rate is close to the interest that the consumer could have obtained if he had placed his money in secure financial investments, e.g. in Treasury bonds. The regulation provides for the application procedure for the exercise of the powers provided for therein. The draft shall indicate a time limit of 6 months, calculated from the date of entry into force of the Act, for the consumer to submit a request for written information by the creditor on the use or non-use in the contract concluded with the consumer, upon payment, as well as the payment of the credit, of an undue currency spread. The creditor will be required to draw up and send the above information within 30 days of receipt of the consumer's application. The consumer's receipt of information on the application of an undue spread to him will open the possibility of applying for a reduction in the capital of the credit, which may take place within 12 months. The consumer whose contract has expired will also be entitled to submit an application and thus to receive the calculation and reimbursement of the excess payment. It does not matter whether the termination of the contract was caused by the creditor's termination or by the payment of the credit by the consumer. The exercise of the powers provided for by the law will not restrict the right of the consumer to initiate or continue judicial proceedings in respect of claims relating to a credit agreement. In the draft we propose an obligation of the Financial Supervision Commission to exercise control over the enforcement by creditors of the provisions of the Act. In the framework of this audit, the Financial Supervision Commission will be empowered to impose a penalty on the creditor for failing to comply with the obligations laid down by law. It is also envisaged to exempt income from the refund of the personal income tax spread. According to the draft, the regulation will enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The costs of the entry into force of the Act depend on the scale of the exercise of the powers provided by the borrowers. With the scenario that claims for reimbursement of benefits will be submitted by all entitled persons, it is possible that they will amount to PLN 3.6 to 4 billion. High Izbo! I would like to ask for a positive assessment of the project submitted and for it to be adopted as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u418	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski and present the justification for the bill in print No 729.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u419	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We lean on 729 printing, which is a child or the work of citizens' environments, not just Members. We were the club that listened to the people's voices, and we leaned on a problem that was about 500,000. Polish families. Ladies and gentlemen, before I proceed to a thorough analysis of our project, printing No. 729, restructuring loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and introducing a ban on granting such loans, a few very simple but concrete truths that need to be denied. As the classic says, a lie repeated 100 times becomes true. The biggest lie here, not only in this House, but also in earlier terms, in the media, was used by lobbyists, by the financier, to call these loans currency credits. Ladies and gentlemen, what kind of franc was that? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the franc that was given to borrowers of indexed and denominated loans. [[The Member shows a hundred zloty banknote]] In the picture Jagiello. Yeah, that's the franc. And the question - because today is Nobel season - to economists, to finance: How to convert Slavic franc into gold? This is the question and the main charge we hear as an applicant of financial elites, in quotes of elites, because they think they rule Poland. Because if this is the franc, and this is the Polish gold, which the borrower saw in the eyes of the borrower, and this franc - the Polish gold was included in the contract, and in this gold the instalments were paid, then I ask how to convert it, what algorithm to use, what formula. What other fiscal scam must be created to rob citizens with the consent of the Polish State? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a key question that I would like Mr Balcerowicz to answer with his ethics to the bankers, excuse me, bankers, because I would not want to confuse the banker with the bankster. These are two different things. The banker has ethics, and the bankster has no rules. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is very simple. The currency loan is a loan granted, paid out and paid out in the currency in which it was received, credit without any conversions to gold, end, period. It is a simple and clear principle, a definition known to every student of economics. I see and analyze, I read the prints that are plugged under our print, and somehow, strangely, no economist, the lawyer didn't notice. Elementary definition of first-year economy. So what is an average credit, not a franchise, but a cheated borrower with a defective derivative contract? This is, ladies and gentlemen, Amber Gold squared. Amber Gold's a bitch. Loans granted under the so-called francs are zloty credits indexed or denominated in a foreign currency. And now, note, 6 July 2011 on the occasion of work on the National Bank spread act states: It should be noted that the loan in Polish currency, denominated or indexed in a currency other than Polish, is a loan in zloty. Thus, indexed loans are not foreign currency loans. Ladies and gentlemen, National Bank of Poland, 2011. KNF position? Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission Mr Marcin Gomola on TVN24 Business and the World on 20 January 2016 states: The first thing is to recognise that loans were gold credits from the very beginning. Today banks demand francs, and they never paid francs. The Ombudsman's opinion - by the way, ladies and gentlemen, under our project, lacked the report of the Financial Ombudsman of September 2016, which is devastating to the banks and on the basis of which today the courts of first instance beat the banks, and people win after 2 and 3 years, have the first sentences. This report didn't see the light of day, it wasn't plugged into print number 729. Why? Question to answer for everyone. Opinion of the Financial Ombudsman of 7 September, which he issued on credit agreements in a collective action against Bank BPH SA. The Ombudsman states: The analysis of the content of the contract indicates that credit in the sense of civil law is gold. The Financial Ombudsman's opinion also states: As regards the rates on which the rates for buying and selling the currencies are set - set unilaterally, I repeat once again, once again, unilaterally - by a bank on which the consumer has no influence, they may be considered to be ancillary clauses. Ladies and gentlemen, this return is worth remembering, and a fair banker should have it - it should be printed and hung over a desk. Risk on which side? The facts are as follows: the proposed construction of the contract, the instrument is such a child that in fact the bank bears no risk, and all contracts are so constructed that they violate the principles of the Constitution, the Civil Code, the Banking Law, and even EU consumer rights, let alone tribunals. So what is a credit indexed to a foreign currency - just to be clear? It is a loan at which the bank undertakes to place at the disposal of the borrower the amount expressed in Polish zlotys. After payment of the amount of the loan - the payment takes place in Polish zlotys - the bank converts the borrowed amount at the currency purchase rate (remember that it was not only francs but also Euros, dollars) and since then the borrower's debt is expressed in foreign currency. The conversion of the instalment to the Polish gold is based on the sales rate according to the bank's exchange rate table. Credit denominated into a foreign currency? It is a loan for which the amount requested is expressed from the outset in a foreign currency on the basis of the initial conversion of the amount requested by the consumer expressed in Polish zlotys and estimated to be converted into currency. The amount denominated is unknown at the time of conclusion of the contract and the consumer does not fully know how much gold he will receive. The initial conversion shall be made at the purchase price and the instalments shall be converted at the sales price in accordance with the bank's table. Ladies and gentlemen, what about the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection? 2010 and what do we have? No clauses allowed. Today we have $1,000 in our collection with the president of the office. clauses relating to banks and insurance. We are pushing our finger into a system that destroys citizens and Polish families. It's not just a so-called problem. indexed, denominated loans. We are also talking about the problem of insured people, issues of various loans, including gold. Few people know that banks do a lot with gold loans to break consumer law, as with many other services, e.g. fiscal services, including telephone services - this is almost straightened out - and many others. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we need to restore citizens' faith in the state so that they can [[Applause]] Another 2 million people did not escape Poland. Why do people run? Because if the state, this House, is becoming the main enemy of the citizen, where are these people supposed to go? To the courthouse? They can go to court, but I don't know if you know that the case in court lasts two to three years and costs an average of 15 and 20 thousand, and families are fighting for money for bread and a ticket to survive. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the entries entered by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection? For example, under 3178 the entry: the loan is indexed to francs, dollars, euro after calculating the amount paid according to the rate of purchase of franc, dollar, euro according to the foreign currency exchange table. It's included in the non-authorised clauses. And there's a whole bunch of records here. Question: "Why is the Polish state, if we have legislation, we have judgments, we have consumer judgments, it does not implement this?" Are we really a fictional, theoretical state? So let's eliminate the competition authority, eliminate the Ombudsman's office - today we're working on the budget - we'll save a lot of money - if what they're doing, we still don't care. Why are they doing this? They do this to make life easier for citizens, and we treat them as an unnecessary, unnecessary element, and let us remember that many of the forces sitting here in Parliament are talking about EU legislation, and, please, countries, EU legislation on consumer issues is extremely restrictive and unambiguous: where there is consumer law, there is the law of the holy thing. And in this case, we have obvious breaches of consumer rights, and it's so solemn that the paragraphs themselves fall apart. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 September this year, the President of the UOKiK states: Clauses which vaguely indicate the reasons for the change in interest rates and the way in which the amount of the mortgage credit to the Swiss franc and the capital and interest rates is determined are what? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the result of an important view - an important view, an important element, which today operates in the Polish legislation, implemented by the Financial Ombudsman and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection - which the President of the UOKiK presented to the court. The case concerned a consumer suit against the bank. According to the President, the contested clauses are not allowed and - attention - they do not bind customers, because it is not possible to execute the contract without these provisions, it may result in the cancellation of the entire contract - says Vice-President Dorota Karczewska. Ladies and gentlemen, Bank law in Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 2 provides that the credit agreement should explicitly specify the amount and currency of the credit, so referencing to a more indeterminate link between the table of exchange rates, and not through the provisions of the contract, but by the rules of procedure, causes a serious legal defect in the credit agreements. This means that, from this point of view, the agreement may also be invalid and must certainly be assessed as an attempt to circumvent banking law, which also results in the nullity of the agreement. The Bank does not cite a single provision of law that was in force on the date of granting the loans and allowed the granting of indexed or denominated loans to foreign currencies. Banks have amnesia. It's been a while, eight years, and, ladies and gentlemen, all banks have amnesia. Suddenly I think the archives have been burned, there's really nothing, they're saints. LIBOR or WIBOR? State legislation does not provide for the rate - LIBOR or WIBOR - in terms of the interest rate on the loan, and the fixing of the interest rate leaves the parties to the contract in fact. Since the bank itself considered that the LIBOR rate could be offered for a gold loan, no legal or economic considerations were in favour of a different rate. The mere fact that the LIBOR rate is proposed does not mean the currency nature of the credit. This is the bank's internal business, and since the bank's loan agreement included the LIBOR rate, he apparently felt that it was worth it. If the decision was economically incorrect, it is difficult to expect borrowers to bear the consequences. And court orders. Ladies and gentlemen, the August case of this year. The case concerns the Millennium Bank. The Court of First Instance held that the credit agreement was invalid in its entirety from the beginning. And what did the court order? The reimbursement not only of overpayments of indexing amounts but also of one instalment in its entirety, which was extended at the last minute, together with interest. How much to return? 100,000. zł. Supreme Court ruling. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Court rejected mBank's cassation action on 8 September 2016. mBank lost in the first instance, lost in the appeal court, today confirmed by the Supreme Court. Note: the rate of franc determined by the bank does not bind the borrower, in place of the prohibited provision nothing can be entered. Ladies and gentlemen, we have citizens at the gallery who have come for law and justice. These people expect Polish law respected by this House and want to be treated fairly. And how do other people do that? The U.S. Department of Justice demands $14 billion from Deutsche Bank for the lack of information on the risks involved in the sale of US mortgage bonds. Moreover, the US government believes that the bank must be punished. What's more, Congress is engaged. It's called law and justice. Another case? There you go. Another industry, November 2014, Korean companies Hyundai and Kia must pay $300 million for incorrect information on exhaust emissions in their models. I ask myself: How is the fiscal instrument different from the car and other examples? I've got a whole bunch of them. The last example of Volkswagen, the example of Opel, shows that there is no mercy. There is no mercy, but this country must act. Not fictitiously, not theoretically, but practically. Ladies and gentlemen, the banks have introduced loans that are valued and indexed by foreign exchange rates to the Polish market. Allow me to present some details here. other than those presented by the financial spokesman, because after almost eight years of lying and black PR, I would still like to say the truth, because I think that's what we deserve as citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the prescription for solving this particular Gordian node is truth, not superalgorithm, not supermodel, but truth. The truth is the best solution to this problem. And a simple system, because if it gets more complicated, it's definitely gonna be twisted and it's not gonna solve the problem. Banks introduced value-added loans to our market, indexed by foreign exchange rates, even though a financial spokesman... in the light of the law in force at the time, this famous S-ki, as we know, was broken because in S-ka it was clearly indicated that if the consumer had no credit in zlotys, no one had the right to propose a currency, so-called. currency. Ladies and gentlemen, so-called. foreign exchange loans have been a source of significant financial benefits for the banking sector, which to some extent result from the use in credit agreements of an abusive nature, contrary to good practices and grossly affecting the interests of borrowers, consumers. In particular, we are talking about the freedom to convert capital and install capital at one-sided rates established by the banks. In some banks, the difference between the purchase and sale rates was about a dozen percent, whereas the currency spreads between the purchase and sale rates at the NBP were - what? - from 1.5 to 2%. So that we can somehow visualize the whole mechanism of this kind of scam, which caused the artificial, very artificial inflating of bank accounts, let us agree that on 6 April 2009 we are launching a loan of 300,000. zł, valued or indexed by Swiss franc rate, interest rate for simplification at fixed interest rate of 4%, 360 instalments. Now we agree that the rate of purchase of franc determined by the bank on that day is PLN 2.76, the rate of sale - PLN 3.14. The credit agreement provides for the conversion of the amount of the credit from zlotys into francs at the rate of purchase of the currency, while, attention, capital and interest payments - from franc to zloty at the rate of sale of the currency. We can already see the first little mouse. As a result of the conversion of the amount of the loan into a foreign currency, the borrower will be issued as 108 640 francs, while the instalment will be 518 francs. And now note, assuming also, in order to simplify the example, that currency rates are fixed in time, after the calculation of the amount of instalments from francs into zlotys the borrower would be obliged to repay instalments of PLN 1631, but if the contract provided for the conversion of the amount of zlotys into francs and the amount of capital and interest instalments from francs to zloty at the rate of sale of the bank, the borrower's obligation would be only - how much? - 95,377 francs. May I? Just a change, the installment comes out 455 francs, I remind you - earlier 518 francs. After conversion into Polish currency, 1432, that is to say, quickly and easily, the bank had the opportunity to offer the customer a lower instalment of PLN 200 or higher, but ultimately, countries, assuming the same rates, would have been able to add 72 thousand more to this loan. for the whole 360 months. For obvious reasons, the calculation used in the example was simplified, while with full responsibility it can be stressed that the mechanisms for converting the amount of loans and capital and interest payments observed by the financial Ombudsman in the loan agreements so-called. the currency was designed to maximise the profits of the banks, as they did not refer only to the conversion of the amount of the loan and the capital and interest instalments, but also to any kind of commissions, fees or insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind that the banks have composed the whole system: polysolokats, additional insurances and many, many other instruments that have actually made this loan more expensive and yet instruments that are banned have appeared. The foreign exchange spreads used by banks, as well as the unilateral fixing of the exchange rates and the method of selecting the exchange rates used to convert the individual positions of the credit agreement according to which exchange rates were more favourable to whom at the bank, were not in the assessment of the financial Ombudsman's justification in the laws invoked by the banks, justifying the admissibility of offering loans so-called. foreign exchange, since the structure described is difficult to consider as contractual valorisation within the meaning of the Civil Code, which assumes that the value measure according to which the amount of the benefit will be determined must be uniform and objective and cannot therefore be unilateral and determined only by the bank in its own interest. Let me remind you that each contract is two signatures: a taker and a giver. I understand that in the media for 8 years they were screaming: they saw the eyeballs that they were taking, I only repeat once again, since they saw the eyeballs that they were taking, it should be fair to say: they saw the eyeballs that they gave, because they were two signatures of two pages that agreed to certain arrangements. [[Applause]] In its report, the Financial Ombudsman considers that the issue of loans denominated in foreign currencies and indexed by the exchange rate of these currencies should be resolved - how? - on a system basis. This is the place, that's why we're here. This is what the spokesperson says in this report: the need for a systemic solution. Why? First of all, not to block the courts. And how do you do that to block it? It's very simple. Let's just let the percentage of more wealthy borrowers go to the bank for documents, for copies of recordings, witnesses, all kinds of procedures, courts will soon be paralyzed, and bankers, instead of making money, will spend all their time in courts, running between one city and another. Is that it? I don't think anybody cares about that - neither we, as applicants, nor you, because nobody wants to hurt banks, and they're not going to get hurt anyway. They're not gonna get hurt, and you know it. The thing is, we're gonna start telling the truth and make things clear, because if it's a franc, [[The Member shows the banknote]] I'm still going back to the classics, so I'm telling you again, how do I change it? Minister, the question to the finance minister is, how do we trade him? If someone says it's 40 billion, I'm asking -- maybe less profit from a scam, maybe? Our project, printing project No. 729, is not a project of beggars for grace, it's not a project of talking about that smart guys want money from suckers. This is a project where citizens demand compliance, respect for the law and treat it as an entity, not an object. This project, more than that, is a rescue wheel. For who? For the banks. This project saves the skin of banks from total golding it by law firms, which can also earn on it. The gates were opened today. The point is that we are talking about all financial institutions, insurance institutions, that Poland has ceased to be a financial colony, that Poland is a country where the state, the Sejm, the government will take citizens and their rights seriously, that we will not allow our market to be drained. Last I heard, Mr. Balcerowicz was talking about ethics. Then I ask why Mr Balcerowicz will not go to the West, to the EU countries with this ethics and formula. They won't do it because they've already paid their penalties. Today they finish business in Central and Eastern Europe, and now they have an eldorado in Ukraine and Russia. Next, no company that is in Poland, and there are about eight banks on over 30... They're getting away with it, they know the financial ledorado is over. Fat cat time's up. [[Applause]] It will be necessary to sit down and honestly say that the ethics of the banker is just as sacred as the ethics of the buyer, the ethics of politics, the ethics of the official, the doctor, that the citizen has the right as a consumer, as a Pole, to be aware that he is not alone, otherwise 2 million citizens will go the other way again. Who's gonna stay here, ladies and gentlemen? Let us remember one more thing in this rescue wheel - today banks cut their own branch on which they sit. This branch is called credibility. If we have 500,000. families and in these families are told to children: Son, no credit, no bank, how do these banks want to function, ladies and gentlemen? How do they want to live? What do they want to live on? Banks live on loans, on deposits. Today the biggest threat to the banking system is not the Sejm, not the 729 printing. Banks themselves are a threat, their greed, not honesty, their greed, which knows no bounds. It's not the art of pumping, ladies and gentlemen, and pulling fictional money, money that doesn't exist. Ladies and gentlemen, all fiscal institutions, including the Swiss central bank, confirm, say: There were no currency movements on the market. It wasn't. Didn't anyone hear that? It's quiet, it's okay. Why is the Polish Sejm silent when they lie in the media because lobbyists, because the financier, commercials bought it for themselves? Since there was no movement in the foreign exchange markets, there was no currency change, why do we allow Polish citizens, Polish families to drain? Then they come, ladies and gentlemen, here and weep that they have to collect for bread, for rent, because if it's franc, then we're all franchise, because we all have this currency in our wallets, i.e. that it's a connected vessel system and the problem of 2 million people and so we all feel. Whether it's settled or not, we're paying for it anyway, it's the cost of being smart financers and lobbyists. It's time to name a thing. Our 729 printing project is trivially simple because it is based on the truth. If it was a cashier's fee, there's no need to flip it. It's time for the banks and clients to sit down and look at the documents, how much cash has gone, how much has been taken. We've got WIBOR, we've got interest rates, no one says in this project that we have to break the loans. It says "restructuring." Can't anybody see that? Do the banks really not see the business in this? After all, they still have a chance to keep a client, a client who still wants to pay money for it. Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear that we will ruin the banking system in Poland with this project, I ask how deep and great this greed is. I mean, they've made a lot of money out of it. Do you know at what prices those mortgages, mortgage debts are sold to merchant wholesalers? I'm sure it's not 100%. [[Voice from the room: 30%.]] Simple? So where are the losses? So where are the losses?! Then let them give these people 30% of what's left to pay. Isn't it easier to sit down with the consumer and talk? Don't you think it's easier for citizens to turn over dignity, a peaceful sleep? Ladies and gentlemen, I reached for the statistics. Today in Poland 7 thousand a year. People commit suicide, 14,000. He's in a mental institution. All pharmaceutical companies break records in the sale of sedatives, antidepressants. Is this from wealth and blessing? An increase of 100% in consumer bankruptcy is not a question of TV credit. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at the family and Poles for real. Let's take them seriously. Let's lean on them. I'm not saying it's not gonna hurt, because a lot of people, when they sit down and count it, they have a lot to pay, some people come up with an overpayment, some people might get paid off. But, ladies and gentlemen, then the game of three cups ends because what these people have today is a game of three cups. The old principle of lending clearly states: if I took 100 PLN of capital, it has the right to add a margin, a commission, but it cannot be that every day the amount of capital is different. This is the case with these loans, which actually makes such a loan impossible to repay, because this amount of capital will be different each time, it will be variable. That is the curse of this instrument, the situation in which 500,000 people have been driven. Polish families. And that's not very smart, ladies and gentlemen. It's a mechanism that's been implanted into us like a specific cancer. Again, we're all franchise. This is cancer, this cancer devours us as a society. This cancer really makes these people sitting here at the gallery have different thoughts. I asked about the statistics, about how they looked about these misfortunes, and I was told: Mr, ask how many have been saved, how many have been raised. These people are working as a support group today so they don't just hang themselves. That's what it looks like today. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to break the spine of a system that destroys citizens. That's what this project is for. This is the first step. And it's the same with polysolocats, which are clearly a violation of the rules today. This dam is already breaking. There's a lot of problems like that, ladies and gentlemen. And that's going to be called independence. But to make such decisions, you have to be free, because only a free man is afraid to make difficult, but important and right decisions. I ask you to lean on our request. [[Applause]] [[Members of the Kukiz Club stand up 15]] I ask that we order Poland and restore the Polish state to its citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u420	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to state the reasons for the draft law in print No 877.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u421	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The state at the gallery, but also the Polish and Poles who borrowed currency loans, as well as those who borrowed gold loans! On 15 January last year, the Swiss National Bank released the franc exchange rate against other currencies. At this point, there was a problem. For years, the Financial Supervision Commission has warned - do not take credit in currencies, because it is a huge risk, but... [[And Petru encouraged.]] ...at that time Prime Minister Gilowska said: Poles have the right to risk. These are just quotes from a situation that was 10 years ago. [[Don't pull a dead person out of his grave.]] I don't take a dead person out of his grave. You'll be dragging dead people out of their graves on other occasions. That's it. I would have left it. I'm quoting. If, in connection with opinions encouraging Poles to risk, such people appeared and said such words, then those words were remembered by all those who took this risk. And Prime Minister Gilowska, as my colleague, I respect you very much, but that's what she said and put some people at risk, that's true. [[Applause]] I would like to say that it was already January 15 that we indicated that the risk of swapping loans could be high. Why were we talking about the risk of swapping loans? Because the legislative authority is not called upon to examine individually every credit agreement. The legislative authority is not the authority that will verify that the credit agreement concluded by Bank X with Kowalski does not contain abusive clauses, that all the terms of the laws are fulfilled. And we depended on the Financial Supervision Committee, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. In the end, it was the Civic Platform that, in the previous term, appointed a financial spokesman because such a financial spokesman had no customers. We've adopted the complaint bill. We have also adopted a law on the Creditor Support Fund, which would be in a difficult situation. But I'm going back to this project. The Swiss National Bank released the franc against other currencies and there was a very big problem for borrowers. We find that we don't judge contracts. We don't deny a client's right to court. The dispute between the client and the creditor and the conclusion of non-authorised clauses must be demonstrated by other authorities. If these other bodies were to report non-compliant clauses, then the rational legislator would react. We've responded to the risk of exchange rate change. We already said last year that we want to address this problem. We're the ones who've been meeting with you, the ones who are affected by this problem. We have prepared for those of you who may have been in such a difficult situation after the release of the franc course, a solution that allowed this risk not to occur in the future, but we have always had the legitimacy of the legislator that we should judge all citizens equally or create them the same conditions, equally protect those who took loans in zlotys and those in currencies. Such a solution has not been accepted. We agreed as an applicant that the difference in reducing this risk should be shared equally between the bank and the client. This solution was broader or further, but the process of adopting this law has not been completed. After the promises of the entire election campaign, this President Duda and our colleagues in Law and Justice, we have adopted the following solutions. They promised, they said that this problem would be solved, that they would submit a suitable project. But it came on 15 January 2016. We submitted this project, we submitted our project, which is the reason for the discussion. And I would like to point out here, before I present the project, that our intention to present this project is to tell the Prime Minister, the President: I am checking what you promised those of you who have spoken to whom you promised to present a solution. If you promised, show it to me. But we thought we were done waiting and on January 15th this year. We put this project back together to start a discussion so that philosophies could meet and all the projects could be evaluated in the finance committee. And today I want to tell you at the gallery, but also to other Poles after these two speeches, after the presentation of the projects, that we will be in favour of these projects meeting in order to talk about this fairly, not only about the sections that contain individual projects, but about the problem. And this is our project, that is, the hand given to talk about a particular problem, in order to make a final decision. I don't know what this decision is gonna be, but we've offered to treat goldsmiths like serious people, not like losers, because that's how they were judged by those who took credit in currencies: after all, you're losers, honest treatment of both groups of borrowers who took credit. We acknowledge, with great respect for both of them, that there was an obligation on the part of financial institutions to inform fairly and not to apply abusive clauses. And as another speaker I can say that Minister Łopinski said that long talks were held at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. He presented a course that was just, different from what they had come to. We put together a project in January to rush you to say that you deserve to have a serious conversation. Our project is based on the elimination of exchange rate risks. Now I'm going to talk about the project. We propose abolishing the exchange rate risk to be applied to some borrowers who have borrowed foreign exchange loans. In this respect, we propose that it be for the first apartment or the first house, not for any of the things that we are trying to build our empire. We need to help those who need help, and so to borrowers who have taken the first credit for the apartment, which is supposed to provide them with functions such as meeting the needs of the family, i.e. living up to 100 m2 and a house up to 150 m2. For those who have more than three and more children, this standard of surface is not taken into account, i.e. it is abolished. Here, it doesn't matter what the area of the house or the apartment is. Secondly, we want to help, we propose that this form can be used by those in whom the value of the property, the ratio of the loan value to the value of the property, so-called. The LTV rate is 80 and more percent, so those who would have trouble paying back in the future, because their credit exposure to collateral can unfortunately cause that if they do not have to pay back, they will be buried for the rest of their lives. We propose that this loan be converted after the course - and here we indicate which tables of the National Bank of Poland's exchange rate are used - and determine what this new commitment looks like today in zlotys. In this case, if this is larger, we propose that the difference between today's condition and the one calculated as gold divides the two sides in the elimination of this risk. This breakdown is: half for the borrower when taking this, the liquidation of risk and half for the creditor, that is, the bank. We also consider that this difference in this formula, in which the bank would take over the risk, would be exempt from both this half and on the other hand both the bank and the customer, from the tax: the bank - with CIT, the client - with PIT and the exchange rate risk will be eliminated. Why are we talking about this and why do we want to eliminate exchange rate risk? Because the future doesn't have to be clear at all. Today, the American Fed announces an increase in the rate, and if there was another currency turbulence and the franc would cost much more, it would be an additional problem next to the current situation. We are proposing this solution, which was divided by the Legislative Commission, because it allowed this project to continue to proceed in order to talk, so that all comments and doubts which are possible to be assessed by the legislator are communicated to this committee. We are also looking forward to all comments on the costs and stability of the system. It is not our agreement to protect financial institutions, but to guarantee money in these institutions, our money which Poles in these institutions have. That's why we need to know how much any solution would cost. We know that these projects cost between 10 billion and 60 billion. That's not what's important to us. The most important thing to us is if we direct these projects... The point of our project is seen as a starting point for discussion. We want to know how contracts were constructed, whether there were non-compliant clauses. We do not want any of the clients, borrowers, to deprive them of the right to court, because they are always entitled to it if the contract is concluded in an unauthorised manner. We tried to define our solution in such a way that borrowers who took out loans in currencies could solve this. We propose a time horizon for this solution by 2020. Applications may be submitted and the banks must respond within certain time limits. Presenting this project, I said: we are open to a serious conversation, not to populism, to serious arguments, to serious opinions of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, the Financial Supervision Committee, the Financial Ombudsman - I will remind you, we have called it - and among others. for an important position, because somehow we're skipping the government position, because the government hasn't said anything about this until today. [[Who's to say? Moravian?]] It would be important for the government to comment on this. Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki directs, among others. I'm a finance minister. Therefore, in a special way we expect reliability from Prime Minister Morawiecki, from the government. We want to talk to everyone. We want this problem to be dealt with fairly. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members, we want to talk to all the environments - like last year, both. We're gonna have to make an important decision. I hope this will happen quickly, because in this case, the state sitting at the gallery spoke to President Duda. So? Nothing. [[I wish they'd talked to you.]] Somehow a applause from the President's Office of the Republic of Poland did not have. I'm hoping I'll at least have a modest round of applause because we want to talk to you. I think my clubmate, who's going to present his opinion on all these projects, will talk about it. This problem should be solved. The attention and doubts about the application of the abusive clauses should not be, once and for all, we should settle this problem. I hope, by presenting this project, that both the State of Law and Justice, as well as all opposition clubs, Kukiz, Modern, will support our project so that it can be directed to the committee, because only in committee is it possible to have a fair conversation and to prepare together such a solution that is fair, fair and fair. I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to recommend to you the draft law that I have discussed for further work in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u422	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We are discussing a very important social issue concerning the resolution of the loan problem that was granted between 2000 and 2011 - especially during this period - in which unfortunately illegible and hurting terms of contracts were offered to borrowers. All three projects that have emerged here are moving towards solving this burning problem, but they represent a completely different philosophy. While the presidential project submitted in this regard is about mitigating the negative effects of banks' collection of benefits by returning part of the benefits they have obtained from the use of foreign exchange spreads, the other two projects aim to convert the borrowings. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make a few comments on these projects. First of all, I'm going to discuss the issue of the Presidential project in print No. 811. The aim of this project is to take measures to compensate for the effects of banks' collection of foreign exchange spreads in the granting of mortgage loans which were taken to buy real estate, most often housing, houses, parcels. The Act concerns mortgage or mortgage contracts, indexed or denominated to foreign currencies, most often to the Swiss franc, concluded between 1 July 2000 and 26 August 2011, when the amendment of the Banking Law of 29 July 2011, so-called. The anti-spread law has created the possibility for the borrower to purchase the currency on the market on its own. The problem is that when granting a loan in a foreign currency, the bank converted the amount of the loan into Polish currency at a rate less favourable to the borrower than would result from the rate of purchase of the foreign currency announced by the National Bank of Poland on the day on which the amount of the loan or its tranches was converted into the Polish currency. This applies to so-called. loans denominated, also in reverse situations, i.e. the granting of loans in Polish currency, which according to the contract were converted into foreign currency, I mean an indexed loan. Actual exchange rates were used lower than the sale rate of the foreign currency announced on a given day by the National Bank of Poland. Such banking practices were unilaterally imposed on borrowers. We know that, we know that. The President's representative, when submitting this proposal, outlined in detail the context in which these loans were drawn. The banks' practice consisted in the fact that the difference between the bank rate and the market rate constituted a bank spread and resulted in a capital increase for the benefit of banks and a loss for borrowers. The solutions did not allow consumers to verify the method of repayment, because contractual clauses did not determine the level of spreads applied by banks. Such behaviour of banks qualifies as a form of unfair market practices affecting the interests of the weaker party, consumers. It's not. the only situation in which banks apply stronger solutions. I mean, for example. loans so called an old wallet or, as who prefers, Balcerowiczowska granted in the 1990s, when both changes in interest rates without prior agreement were applied unilaterally, as well as other solutions which caused the Poles to borrow about 5 billion loans for housing purposes at the time, had already paid 7 billion, and added the state budget of 28 billion, i.e. 35 billion. Of course, these payments are still ongoing. These citizens cry and pay. Although, in our previous term of office, we have tabled twice a bill to eliminate this problem, unfortunately, from the ruling coalition, which today presents itself as an extremely understanding and sensitive party, these projects have not been supported. The problem is still unsolved. Of course, we, this government, will take care of this problem, only that over the last few years so many people, thousands of people have been badly hurt. Therefore, calling on the representatives of the Civic Platform, Member, to mobilise us, to talk is completely unfounded and unfounded. [[What do you mean it's not justified?]] We don't have anything to talk about anymore. These talks lasted many months in the previous term of office. So what? And what did you do about it? You haven't solved the problem, so please don't mobilize us right now, because we really know what to do. The President has submitted the project and we are working on it, among others. today submitted to Parliament. So it's not like we neglect to make a promise and avoid solving the problem. Look first at your achievements in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act sets out - I am talking about the presidential project - the rules for the repayment to borrowers of part of their debts resulting from the agreements concluded for the reduction of capital and includes not only persons who are currently making repayment, but also those whose contracts have expired or have been terminated by the banks or simply persons with paid-up credit. The Act, first of all, covers consumers within the meaning of the Civil Code and under certain conditions natural persons engaged in a single business activity. The law gives rise to the right to apply to the bank and requires banks to provide information on whether a particular borrower has been subject to a spread loss-making conversion and, upon receipt of such information, gives the borrower the right to apply for a capital reduction or a surplus payment, for example. The deal's already expired. A limit of 350 000 is also introduced, which is the amount of credit capital in respect of which the consumer is entitled to request a reduction of capital or a refund of overpayment. Ladies and gentlemen, the project submitted is a solution that responds to the problems of borrowers, but at the same time takes into account the situation, the effects on the financial system of the State. We can't separate these things. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are also various doubts and questions about this project, e.g. If we believe that the reason for submitting such a project is that banks are breaking the law, it is the question why we are applying solutions here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] only to part of the borrowers, not all of them. Is it worth expanding the consumer definition?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u424	Madame, you are very welcome to conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u425	Whether it is worth expanding - already finishing - the rights to refund these differences also in case the credit is secured by many other properties, etc.? As far as the other two projects are concerned, as I said, are fundamentally different in their essence, in the mechanism that they propose...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u426	Member, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u427	...to solve this problem, we have a lot of concerns here, but there are also good elements of these projects. That is why we are willing to refer these projects to the Committee on Public Finance, all three projects to work on them and reach consensus as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u428	Thank you, Member. I ask you to stick to the discipline of time. Please, Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by correcting, first of all, what she said was that the problem has been going on for many years. The truth is that the problem practically arose in January 2015, when the Swiss bank practically liberated the Swiss franc course, the state that is here at the gallery, began to feel this problem perfectly in January 2015. Previously, this problem with the course or the payments wasn't there, so stick to the rules here. Secondly, I would like to say that the Civic Platform, as Krystyna Skowrońska mentioned earlier, has already submitted a proposal on 15 January 2015 to resolve this problem. [[Why didn't you approve him?]] Today we say 14 months since President Duda was sworn in, who promised to solve the problem of the franchise. And where is this solution? We don't have one to this day, do we? [[There it is.]] But it's too late. There's a problem with the installments of those people who are here today at the gallery. That's why I'm going to try, of course, just briefly, to talk about these projects, to make it clear... to continue working in committees on these projects so that this problem can be solved. It must be said that, in addition to being 14 months since the President was sworn in, there is also, ladies and gentlemen, almost 11 months since the Government of Law and Justice exercises power, so there is also an element that should be emphasized here that nothing has happened since this problem came about. Once - in the presidential and parliamentary campaign, President Duda stated that the franchise owed the bank as much as they received in zlotys, and that credits indexed or denominated in Swiss franc could be converted at the exchange rate on the date of the withdrawal. And for the second time - for a year at the office of the President, a team of experts headed by Professor Modzelewski was debating a bill that would help the franchise. And what's left of these big announcements, from the fair course, from the restructuring? It's not a big deal. Just the disappointment and fury of the state that's at the gallery today. The current presidential project does not solve the basic problem of borrowers, i.e. does not remove the exchange rate risk from them. Nor does it make the instalments lower, because the problem of spreads already in 2011 has been solved by the Civic Platform. Why exactly did the president file such a bill to the Sejm today? Of course we are not talking about the fact that we reject it completely, it is worth simply to take the elements that are good in this law. Second project. With regard to the project of the Poselski Kukiz Club, contained in print No. 729, it is in fact a project prepared by the franchise community, i.e. those interested in the most beneficial solution to the problem of franc loans. We welcome the fact that it is introduced by the Platform by an institution of the Ombudsman, about which a colleague previously said that she found recognition in the eyes of clients of financial institutions. It's one of the many so-called. the pro-consumer solutions we have put in place in the financial services market in the previous term. It seems that using mediation with the financial spokesman to establish the rules for restructuring loans is a good idea of this law, because it always strengthens the weaker position of the client vis-à-vis the bank. The final solution, of course, is always the court. According to the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is most important in order to make the situation so-called. franchise has not become unfairly more advantageous than the situation of a borrower in debt in Polish zloty or US dollars or in euro. We believe that the weak and even practically unacceptable point of this project under European law is the total ban on lending in foreign currencies. One of the bastions inviolable in the European Union is the freedom of movement of financial capital in the currencies of the EU countries in the territory of the Republic of Poland. According to the Constitution, the means of payment in Poland is gold. But the constitution, please pay attention to this, does not impose any prohibition on the use of foreign currencies in the territory of the Republic of Poland. On the contrary, entities, both natural and legal persons, are entitled to hold foreign currency foreign currency foreign exchange accounts in their property banks. Nor do cash rules prohibit the use of banknotes and coins in foreign currencies. So there are two elements concerning trade or freedom of financial trade that are taken into account in this law or restrictions - so that it is not exaggerated because we are in the European Union. Finally, with regard to the Civic Platform project, which is included in print 877, which is discussed in detail by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska's colleague, this is a project which eliminates the exchange rate risk by distributing the cost of restructuring to the borrower and to the bank in half. Some costs of such a conversion would, of course, be borne by the Polish taxpayer, but in the final analysis possible turbulence in the financial market, caused e.g. Unpaid franc credits would be even more dangerous for everyone, given the multi-billion-dollar scale of this phenomenon. Here it is also worth noting that not only Poland is affected by this problem. We can read here, in the newspaper, about the solution to this problem in Romania, where Parliament unanimously passed a law allowing the conversion of loans in Swiss francs into loans in national currency. But let us remember that in Romania, of course, it is on a smaller scale than what we are dealing with in Poland. In conclusion, it is worth noting that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will recommend that all projects be sent to the Committee on Public Finance, so that in the course of the work on these projects we can find the best solutions for all those affected by this problem. Of course, it is about creating a subcommittee here first, which can solve the whole problem. I realize that time is against us, but at the same time we cannot wait to solve this problem that many people are facing. Nor can we simply put this case - just as a friend said earlier - so that those who took loans in zlotys as losers did not know what it was about. We need to find the gold center. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u430	Thank you, sir. I would like to invite Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I present the position of the Kukiz club15, I wanted to refer to what we just heard from the MP presenting the position of the PO. You said that our project was prepared by the franchise community who wrote a project that was beneficial to themselves. This project is beneficial for Poles, citizens, all Poles [[Applause]] And it's bad for thieves only. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the draft laws on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a foreign currency other than the Polish currency and on the prohibition of granting such loans. The so-called problem. The franchise was widely discussed in the election campaign. We all heard declarations that the problem should be resolved quickly. On the other hand, the draft Kukiz Act 15 submitted on 28 April is only being processed today, almost after six months of its existence in the Seym. So the question arises: What cooled the enthusiasm and the willingness to quickly regulate the problem of people who took loans in Swiss francs, so-called. Swiss francs? To whose benefit is it to extend the procedure of this and other laws concerning the same issue? I think this is where the answer came from today. Until a few years ago, banks were very willing and in a mass way to grant loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies, mainly to the Swiss franc. These loans, due to lower interest rates, were much more attractive and more accessible, especially for a wider group of people, than loans granted in Polish currency. At a time when the loans were widely granted, they fueled the economy in the field of construction, trade and real estate. The main reason for their unfettered granting was that very often those who received these pseudocredits, according to banking manipulation, were not creditworthy in zlotys, and thus would not receive loans and would not buy, would not build housing. Therefore, with these purchases and constructions, the Treasury was enriched and the whole society benefited, apart from the so-called. The franchises who lost and continue to lose. I realize that the Kukiz15 project is not everyone's favorite. It certainly doesn't appeal to the bank lobby because it breaks down the privileged position of the banks. The draft law is primarily about the fair treatment of the borrower, because it cannot be so that all liability, all credit costs, all risks are transferred to only one weaker side, i.e. the citizen. As in any agreement, we also have two parties in the bank loan agreement, which should equally be subject to danger. You have to stop dictating banks, using size as an advantage. The banks point out that the draft law will have a negative impact on the whole sector, that they will have to bear high costs as a result of the adoption of the law. They fear that these costs can then be passed on to other customers, namely all of us, citizens. The justification of the project estimated a reduction in bank revenues of about PLN 1.2 billion per year. It would seem that this is a huge sum, but, as the explanatory memorandum rightly states, the banking sector recorded revenues of nearly PLN 58 billion in 2014 and a net profit of more than PLN 16 billion. The reduction in revenue by PLN 1.2 billion will therefore represent only 2% revenue of the entire sector. The project submitted by Kukiz15, in print No. 729, will have a positive impact and will generate significant socio-economic benefits. Firstly, it will contribute to the release of real estate, which will be able to be sold without problems, because with today's level of debt exceeding significantly the value of these real estates they are practically excluded from the market and at the same time their owners are tied to the place and cannot move, e.g. in search of a job, in another city. Secondly, the project will increase transactions on the market. More resources could be spent on consumption instead of unduly profiting banks. Finally, thirdly, such an increase in real estate transactions and the mobility of people in search of work will translate into additional revenue to the Treasury from PIT, CIT and VAT charges. Polish PKP will also grow... [[GDP, not PKP.]] ... because after the debt and installments the Polish families will start to increase consumption, spend money on the domestic market, instead of carrying hard-earned money for overpayments to the bank, which, on the basis of contracts with mother companies, transfers them abroad to the detriment of the Polish society and economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u432	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a shame. It is a shame that we had to walk for so many months and ask for this project to finally be dealt with by Parliament. It is a shame that, for a few weeks, some of the people affected by French loans had to live on the lawn in front of the Sejm in order to draw the attention of the honourable Members to their problem. It's a shame. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a toxic product that is often referred to in the United States. Toxic products were offered. Because what, if not a toxic product is a credit, on which we conclude a currency contract, on which the consumer, who is not necessarily aware and educated, who does not know the means of investment in the currency, is persuaded, was persuaded, among others. by specialists such as Richard Petru, to the fact that it is a good product, that the franc will certainly not cost. The question is, did any of you try to take credit in Swiss franc at a time when its course had already increased? It was very difficult or impossible. So that, ladies and gentlemen, in this situation it is also worth asking ourselves, where was the financial supervision in all of this, how it happened at all - this case, because it is a Franco scandal. How did it become possible for so many years to endure? Because it's still going on. You could answer here, voicing this well-known in this room with the slogan of eight years. It explains a lot about continuing this affair. Ladies and gentlemen, in civilized countries, and as such, I think we can consider the United States of America to be the suppliers of such products to be subject to penalties falling into billions of dollars or, if any, to Polish francs. [[Applause]] How's it going with us? Something - thank you - connects us to this America, namely the slogan: free American woman, do what you want, no penalties, while all costs are borne by consumers. Is this a citizen-friendly country? Is this a normal country, or is this a colony? I'm pretty familiar with the colony. That is why we are introducing print No 729 to Parliament, going very far, a print that has actually been prepared by the environment most affected by these toxic products. We introduce it in order to give a clear signal, a signal for the future for all machers, bankers, businessmen and others of this kind, who mean only profit, regardless of cost, often at the expense of health or even human life. Ladies and gentlemen, it's really time for you to rehearse. Now there's this crucial test time. Recently, there has been a great debate through the Sejm, a lot of great debates in which we have heard great, wonderful slogans, as you will defend the citizens and represent their interests. So now you have the opportunity to show whose side you're actually on and whose business you represent, corporations or citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u434	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Piotr Misja, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Creditors! The writer of Scottish origin, and the Scots know money like nobody, Mark Twain used to say: Banker is someone who lends you an umbrella when the sun shines, but wants it back when it rains. In the case of these drafts of laws, or actually the whole problem so called. However, the point is to maintain a relative moderation and intelligent compromise, taking into account the interests of the national economy, indebted households, but also banks. I myself own a mortgage in Swiss currency. However, I remember today the words of one of my professors to take credit in the currency in which you earn, so as to minimise the exchange rate risk that could adversely affect your business activity. And so I did in all the professional projects that I had the pleasure of managing. However, on a private basis, I put the total cost of the loan at 0.1% which was offered to me by a bank in Swiss currency, as well as in Japanese currency, and whose conditions thanks to the low interest rate to this day I consider to be quite decent despite the increase in the price of the franc and the weakness of the gold position. However, back to the merits of the projects submitted by Kukiz, the PO and the President, attention should be paid to and strongly emphasized that Kukiz's proposal is outrageous from economic and legal logic. If I were to define it in one sentence, I would eat the words of Herbert: Ignorance has the eyes of an eagle and the eyes of an owl. But first things first. The Kukiza project, which assumes a total ban on loans and loans in non-Polish currencies, raises serious doubts about the way in which it could be introduced. It is also doubtful that such an exemption is compatible with Union law, i.e. with freedom of establishment and freedom of movement of capital, as clearly stated in the opinion of the Office for Sejm Analysis. I will not talk about the devastating, very professional and comprehensive opinion of the Polish Bank Association further, because although it is coherent, logical and rational, in its spirit it does not want to protect the borrowers from the rain in any way. On the other hand, I highly recommend to each of you the 140-page Ernst & Young report, which simply exposes the economic dylanism of this project, which obviously does not change the fact that after reading it to the franchise it will still rain on its head. In addition, the devastating opinions of the National Council of Courts, the Attorney General and the National Chamber of Auditors are added. The draft adopts the wrong reference rate for determining the interest rate, instead of the NBP reference rate should be WIBOR - Article. Point 3 (c) Completely incomprehensible are the provisions concerning the rules for the return of inefficiently collected insurances. How would such a return be made in the case of insurance companies and how this relates to exchange rate risk - art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 6. Entries of Article. 5 indicates that there could be cases of forced restructuring in the case of several joint and several borrowers. This may have a number of unclear legal effects. The project strikes a lack of precision in the provisions on the principle of the calculation of existing repayment or reduction of capital - Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 and 4 raising a number of technical questions on the rules for the implementation of the proposed amendment. In addition, there is no precise definition of the rules for the estimation of damage and the principles and grounds for estimating the costs of compensation - Article. Paragraph 7 3 and 4. The obligation for the borrower to acquire real estate for the debt relief is incomprehensible on a systemic basis - Article. Point 13 (2) in particular in the context of the impact of such transactions on the real estate market. But there's a light in the tunnel for this project. This is the opinion of the National Bank, which does not make any comments on this draft law, but it is worth adding that it points out at the same time that it never granted a loan in a currency other than the Polish currency. I think it's still worth asking for an opinion from the Polish Landowners' Union. They didn't give credit in Swiss currency either. They didn't give credit in any other currency. It's a little different with... [[What?]] ...by print No 877, i.e. by a parliamentary draft of colleagues from the PO, which is in fact a repetition of the previous term of office adopted by the Sejm on 5 August 2015, in which the amendments of the Senate of 4 September 2005 were not taken into account for unknown reasons. And this omission of yours, as well as many other omissions, is reflected today by the hiccups of the French. But first things first. [[Oh...]] Restrictions on the powers to benefit from the restructuring provided for in Article. 3 (1) (a) 3 are inappropriate because of bank breaches of consumer rights. Combination of restructuring powers with the number of children held, Article. 3 (1) (a) 5, it's wrong too. I suppose you're quite sorry. in the PO very much that you didn't put in place during your government's programs of cover and social activities such as 500+, and I'm afraid at the same time that because you want to stop the decline of polls, now in every project of yours... [[Take care of yourself, take care of yourself.]] ...that's the kind of criterion that's gonna come up. Not that way, ladies and gentlemen of the liberal conservatives of the Platform. [[It's weak.]] Designed restructuring... [[Take care of yourself.]] ...should cover all borrowers and consumers on an equal basis so that they can at least comply with Article. 32 of the Republic of Poland. [[Constitution.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Your project in the technical part is, of course, incomparably better than the Kukiz project - it does not violate, among others. internal regulations - but it has also been de facto negatively assessed by the Office for Sejm Analysis, the Attorney General, the Union of Polish Banks and the European Central Bank, which issued its opinion on this project on 5 August 2015. On the other hand, a positive opinion on this project, which was issued by... Office of the Marshal of the West Pomeranian Voivodship and lack of comments on this project of the Marshal's Office of the Lubuskie Voivodship. Let me just add that the Federal Reserve System of the United States did not report any comments to him either. The third, most rational in the context of the current state of the Polish economy is the presidential bill, although it also does not solve the problem of systemic risk related to loans and loans secured by mortgages granted in foreign currencies, but only concerns the reimbursement of part of the currency spread charged by banks. As the proposalor points out in the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the proposed regulation is to eliminate the effects of an undue provision from consumers in the form of overly high foreign exchange spreads. In the view of the designer, this objective can only be achieved through a statutory obligation to reimburse certain benefits arising from credit and loan contracts as benefits taken independently, under clauses which prefer one party and equip it with the right to determine the amount of the other undertaking on its own. The funds returned would reduce the amount of the remaining borrower's capital to be repaid, so they would facilitate the day-to-day handling of the loan and, in the case of credit agreements that have already expired, would be paid to the borrowers. When considering this project, it would be appropriate to have information about the income of banks obtained on the clearing transactions of the borrowers themselves - spreads - which have become an additional source of income for banks in a situation of very high freedom to determine the price conditions for the execution of individual transactions. At this point we should consider whether we are dealing with a crime of usury. Getting such information should make it clear the scale of the problem for borrowers who are simply drawn by banks like a proverbial rubber band for panties. After reading all three draft laws, it should be noted that restructuring could mean very high costs of closing the bank's monetary position resulting from the conversion, with strong pressure to weaken the gold, with a significant risk of increasing the cost of handling the public debt. The proposed changes can affect the perception of the risk of Poland with consequences felt for the whole economy. Possible destabilisation of the banking system is one of the arguments that should be carefully considered also in a situation where reasonable changes are delayed with the possibility of spreading the effect over time. If you don't do anything, it's gonna come back negative. It is an economic impossibility to repay the loan by a large part of borrowers, enforcement titles leading to the acquisition of real estate that will not be liquid on the market, resulting in social consequences etc. The question also arises as to why the UOKiK does not participate in the legislative process, since the banks have applied the prohibited clauses and the judgments of the Court of Competition and Consumer Protection have not been respected by them? Can we currently assume that banks operate in accordance with applicable law, or is it a state in the state? Why do banks fail to comply with the consumer protection law? Why have you not been able to prevent abuse and greed for so many years of your rule? Why, colleagues from the POs and colleagues from the POs? The above mentioned Once upon a time, because of me from the Gordon Gekko speaker... [[What?]] ...the hero of the movie Wall Street, he used to say: Greed is good. Dear bank presidents, greed is not good. Just because the Kukiz project is bad and insults the fundamentals of logic, law and economics doesn't mean that you bankers are innocent. You're not! You have been seduced by greed at the expense of many righteous and trusting borrowers. Therefore, I appeal to you from this place: keep moderation, seek an effective compromise, and do not wait until it is too late. If the Platform could turn back time, it would probably never have set up extracurricular judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Don't make the same mistake. Modern will vote in favour of a draft presidential law for further work in committees, and we propose to proceed on the draft laws of Kukiz and Platforms [[♪ The bell ♪]] end definitively after first reading. [[Ooh!]] We should always follow such rules as we would like them to be applied by everyone and always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u436	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on draft laws, and I will no longer read their titles, from print No. 811, is a presidential and parliamentary project from print No. 729 and 877. We are launching a debate on a very difficult but at the same time a very important problem, and it is very important. Indexed and denominated loans to foreign currencies were granted in Poland to non-profit-making persons in foreign currency between 2000 and 2013. At the end of 2015, the number of loans granted to consumers indexed or denominated into foreign currency amounted to more than 713 thousand in Poland. and amounted to PLN 173 billion, of which PLN 562,000 respectively. - so many credit agreements, so many loans - and PLN 144 billion were loans related to the Swiss franc. Most of these loans are mortgaged and their dominant group are residential loans. The accumulation of foreign exchange loans took place between 2005 and 2008. In 2008, the value of foreign exchange loans was twice as high as the value of gold loans. These loans had significantly lower interest rates than residential loans in PLN. The first worrying events emerged with the economic crisis in 2008 and the increase in the franc rate. The climax took place in mid-January 2015 when the Swiss central bank decided to stop defending the Swiss franc exchange rate. During that period, it turned out that loans denominated or indexed were, despite regular repayment of the loan, often higher levels of debt than the initial amount borrowed. It is natural that borrowers feel deceived and trapped by banks. From a logical point of view, but also actually these loans were not paid or repaid in a foreign currency. The three aid projects submitted to the French people in general are an attempt to assist those who have borrowed loans denominated or indexed. Shortly, synthetically, I will try to characterize these solutions. The following aid to the franchise standardizes the bill drawn up by them themselves, submitted in the High House by the Kukiz Group15, print No 729. This project is the easiest solution and applies to loans denominated or indexed after 1 January 2000, provided that the period for which the loan was granted exceeds 60 months. Thus, the Act covers long-term loans which are generally mortgaged and relate to credit agreements which have been fully executed or terminated. It concerns not only consumers within the meaning of the Civil Code but also other natural persons who have concluded a credit agreement in connection with their business activities. The principle of restructuring is to convert a foreign currency loan into a gold loan using the interest rate so-called. the base rate, which is the reference rate of the National Bank of Poland plus the margin of the bank, i.e. not for free. The restructuring would have been carried out retroactively from the date on which the loan was granted. The Bank would fully settle the loan in the payment and repayment of its instalments. The project also prohibits the provision of loans whose settlement is based on a currency other than gold, i.e. the Polish currency. Draft Print Act No 877 submitted by Members of the Civic Platform provides for the conversion of a mortgage loan in foreign currency at the exchange rate of the date on which the restructuring agreement was drawn up and consists in the calculation of the difference between the value of the loan after the conversion and the amount of the debt calculated in the event that a contract was concluded in the past on the loan in Polish zlotys. The bank would have to pay off part of that amount, 50% , within a time limit depending on the amount of the difference calculated. In the first year, the bank would cancel out the most vulnerable in cases where the credit-to-security ratio exceeds 120%. In this way, the costs of redemption by the banks would be spread over time. The scheme could be used by persons whose credit value for collateral is higher than 80% and the property is their first real estate and fulfils the surface conditions, i.e. in the case of apartments up to 100 m2, and the house - up to 150 m2. In multi-child families, surface standards do not apply. The presidential project is to cover credit agreements concluded from 1 July 2000 until the entry into force of the Anti-Spread Act. According to the project, spreads would be returned at a level higher than acceptable. Spreads would be returned in the case of a loan granted up to a maximum of 350 000. PLN per person. They are also to be repaid when the credit agreement has expired, has been terminated or the loan has been repaid. The presidential project was negatively assessed by the Polish Bank Association, with doubts assessed by the National Bank of Poland and generally strongly criticised by the franchise themselves. Franchised borrowers in the number of 500 thousand. The president's position is considered treason. They therefore request that this project be eliminated from the legislative process. They stress that the presidential project is completely contrary to Mr Andrzej Duda's many-time electoral announcements, as well as his announcements as President of the Republic. The President himself and his officials, instead of apologizing to the voters for their irresponsibleness and making promises that cannot be fulfilled, have insisted and fought, telling the franchise that this is a solution good for them, for the borrowers. In the Communication of the President's Office of the Republic of Poland we read that long-term proposed solutions are beneficial for borrowers themselves, because they take into account the care of economic development. This is also a narration - it must be acknowledged as different from the President's promises - also continued Minister Andrzej Dera in Polsata News on 3 August 2016. He said then, I repeat his words: differently you look at the state, being a candidate for president, and otherwise, as you already are a president, seeing what the consequences are. It's bringing it in. So the president failed. Besides, I don't think it's the only time he failed, he said something else, and he did something else. It is also important to stress, High Izbo, that it is very clear that banks, institutions of public trust have failed in all this. This problem cannot be solved without consequences for banks, which have specialized in these harmful offers for borrowers. Fortunately, the problem does not concern the entire banking network in Poland. It only applies to five or several banks, let's say. We must not prolong the subject without an effect on solving this problem. Help must be given to fraudulent borrowers. With regard to the evaluation of the projects discussed today, the most far-reaching and most beneficial for fraudulent borrowers is the project contained in print No. 729, but the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party does not want to close this discussion and asks to debate all three of them in the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u438	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Circle of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u439	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! There's no one from the government. I'm not surprised, actually. The promise was that the franc case would be settled just like that. It wasn't taken care of, so I'm not surprised they're embarrassed to show up in the courtroom. Minister, I am addressing Minister Łopinski, and in 2001 I took a mortgage. I remember how friends, even friends, because that's what I could say about them, and they said, "Why do you take in gold?" It'll be cheaper in francs, don't be a loser. I didn't want to be a loser. [[That's what we know.]] I didn't want to be a loser, but I did take it in gold from the usual precaution. I thought, of course, that taking credit in a currency you don't earn puts me, my family at a huge risk that I wanted to avoid. But I don't want to say that those who took it deserve to be called jerks or losers. I know a lot of people at the banks who heard that they didn't have a credit card in gold, but they had it in francs, which is why they took loans in francs. I also know that many of them are in a dramatic situation today. Eight years ago, they took out a loan of 200,000, an equivalent of 200,000, for eight years they paid back fairly, and today the value of the loan is 350,000. Fortunately, there are still those whose loan value is less than the value of the property under which the loan was taken. At least, theoretically, they can sell this property in a dramatic situation of life, pay off the loan and live with their family. This is dramatic, but not tragic. The tragic ones are those where the present value of the loan exceeds the value of the property. What do you want them to do? I don't even want to think. Some did, and you have to feel sorry for their families, pray for their souls. That's why I agree with the previous speakers. This is a serious problem that we need to solve, although the Polish state is not responsible for this problem. But I don't think it's time for us to mock, ridicule, and practice the phillips of the Seym. It's too serious to allow such an interparty fencing here. But if I hear Minister Łopinski, who represents President Duda here, who says that hundreds or thousands of letters are coming to the firm asking for a solution to this problem, because the people who wrote these letters are in a dramatic situation, I will say, Minister, that it is not time to shed crocodile tears. We had to watch the words that Andrzej Duda said in the campaign and then the candidate for Prime Minister Beata Szydło. It was not necessary to say that loans should be converted into francs so that they would be paid off at the date of their enlistment, that the president had a huge legitimacy to deal with difficult matters at the state level. And he added that within three months of office... [[3 months.]] ...will send a presidential bill to Parliament that will force the banks to convert the so-called. foreign exchange loans for gold at the exchange rate on the date of signature of the contract. Today is not the time to shed crocodile tears that people resent. You have to hit your chest and say, "I'm sorry, I cheated you, I wanted to win and I cheated you." That's the truth, Minister. That is what people from your mouth should hear as a representative of President Andrzej Duda from this speaker in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Also for the fact that the presidential project came in one year after the oath, not after three months. Mrs Tokarska said: the President has failed. Yeah, he failed. The Sejm can fix what President Andrzej Duda failed in. That is why we, as European Democrats, are in favour of sending all three projects to work in committees. We are directing our best parliamentarians, Mr Stanisław Huskowski, to the Committee on Public Finance, and we want to actively participate in solving this problem, trying to find a solution that President Andrzej Duda has not found despite his promises for 12 months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What an expression. He's just going to get scared.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear people - in quotes - Frankowicz! By representing the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the presidential draft law on the rules for repayment of certain debts arising from credit and loan agreements, print No 811, the parliamentary bill, by the Civic Platform, on specific rules for the restructuring of foreign exchange housing loans in connection with the exchange rate change to the Polish currency, print No 877, and the parliamentary bill, by the Kukiz club15, on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the prohibition of granting such loans, print No 729. I would like to refer to fragments of the report of the Financial Ombudsman of June this year, in which we can read, among other things, that - I quote - currency loans were a source of significant financial benefits for the banking sector, which to some extent result from the application in credit agreements of abusive nature, contrary to good practices and grossly affecting the interests of consumers borrowers. In particular, it refers to the freedom to convert capital and loan instalments at one-sided rates set by the banks. In addition, banks used the currency purchase rate and the currency selling rate to convert other items in any way to convert certain contractual items, which exposed borrowers to additional costs. It is also important that in the case of foreign exchange loans there was no physical transfer of currency between the bank and the borrower, and the whole operation was purely accounting. [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal, please calm down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a result, given the scale of this phenomenon, it should be made clear that the issue of loans denominated in foreign currencies and indexed by the exchange rate of these currencies should be resolved comprehensively, in a systematic manner, by adopting appropriate legislation compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and European Union law. Contrary to the expectations of hundreds of thousands of borrowers, such criteria are unfortunately not met by the project submitted by the President of the Republic. At this point it is worth going back to 15 May 2015, when at a meeting in the Senate of the Republic of Poland with the representatives of the French Mr Andrzej Duda as a candidate for the office of the President of the Republic said - I quote: There are many people who are in a desperate situation today, especially those who, for example, are in a desperate situation. They lost their jobs. Today, the properties they once bought, due to exchange rate changes, are many times less valuable than the credit they have to pay back. It's a curiosity situation. I believe that these loans could be converted according to the course at which they were taken - the end of the quote. However, today, 1.5 years after those words, a project that is absolutely non-existent - I say it with great regret - is sent to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, which has been repeated repeatedly during the presidential campaign. Moreover, the provisions of this project, which deal only with cases of overly high currency spreads, may make it difficult or even prevent the effective enforcement of consumer claims against banks before the general courts, based on the existing rules on abusive clauses applied in contracts. Similarly, I take a negative view of the draft Act No 877, by Members of the Platform... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u442	Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u443	...predicting the possibility for the borrower to apply for the restructuring of the foreign currency housing loan. Unlike other projects, it is quite reasonable, in particular in terms of financial consequences. In addition, the question remains: Why was the PO not able to help the franchise with a long time to solve this problem during its governments? On the other hand, I am positive about the draft law from print No. 729, brought to the session of the Sejm by the Poselski Kukiz Club15, best expressing the environmental interest of the so-called. François. In my view, its adoption will allow the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency, granted after 1 January 2000 for a period of more than 60 months. The project was widely consulted with numerous associations, not only those involved in helping victims of banks. Most importantly, its adoption will not cause any harm to citizens and the state budget. The draft is also in line with current case law of the courts in consumer cases. Credit agreements on the basis of which the banks granted the so-called "banks'. Franc loans contain abusive clauses which by law do not bind consumers, and yet, as a rule, banks deny this obvious fact. It must be said clearly that there has been a crime in Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] mass-scale fraud. In order to correct this great social injustice today, a bill is needed, a good bill from the draft in print No. 729. This case needs an urgent solution. Due to the fact that the problem concerns several hundred thousand families, including families of many children and several generations, this modern form of slavery is affected by about 2 million Polish citizens. Living often in a sense of hopelessness, constantly...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u444	Go on, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u445	...they are fighting against the repayment of these loan shark financial instruments. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I recommend to the High House that all these draft laws be directed to further work in the Committee on Public Finance and I urge the chairman of the committee to work immediately on the shape of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u446	Thank you very much, sir. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 mins 31 hours 20 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask Members to take their seats. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The formal proposal was made by Mr Michał Kaminski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3... [[It's quiet.]] ...I'd ask your marshal to order a brief recess... [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow.]] ...in the course of which Mr Marshal would prepare to answer the question: On what legal basis, once again, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland representing 38 million Poles, the main institution of a democratic state, depends on the presence of one Member? [[What are you talking about?]] On the basis of the rules of procedure, Mr. Marshal has been notoriously involved. [[Applause]] delaying our deliberations, depending on whether or not one of the Members will appear? Perhaps, Mr Marshal, there is some infoline that all Members can call and say, for example. they stand in traffic or alarm clock didn't work, and then the whole House will also wait for other Members, but I think respect for democratic institutions requires that if we make an appointment for an hour... [[Sit down!]] ...it was at this hour that they started their deliberations, whether or not someone was late. If it were just one case, I wouldn't be taking the floor, but this case is of a general nature. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u448	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the High House that the vote has been announced at the Senior Convention meeting at noon. 8:30. And as for your Member, I don't know if you were talking about yourself or if I don't know who. As far as Michael Kaminski is concerned, we are at your disposal. [[Applause]] We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government bill amending the Budget Act for 2016. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 916. The question is raised by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz club15. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Farmers have been waiting for this money for years. The situation is that they always have to take short-term loans in the spring. At this point, thanks to this money it will not be necessary, they will be able to go out in the field calmly, as farmers say, in the spring, they will be able to buy seeds, they will be able to buy fuel and invest in a new season in this difficult time for agriculture. I wanted to ask: Would it be a rule that these payments will be paid every year in October? Will farmers also be able to count on this next year? Will the IT system be able to provide payouts and there will be no problems that occurred last year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u450	So you're expecting an answer? I think the answer's obvious, but... Minister, the Member would ask for an answer. Ms Hanna Majszczyk, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In accordance with the regulations of the Council of the European Union, advance payments are possible each year, but at a rate of 50%. What is currently happening in the 2016 amendment is an exception and results from the regulations of this year, which were adopted in the European Union Commission in September and provide the possibility of financing 70% under advance payments for direct payments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u452	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.916, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 427 voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the budget law for 2016. We return to the examination of item 35 of the agenda: First reading of the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft resolution at first reading, as well as to accede immediately to the second reading of the draft resolution. I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft resolution at first reading. Rejection of the proposal will mean that the Sejm has decided to join the second reading of the draft resolution. The questions have been raised by Members. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Whether the relations between Poland and Ukraine are based on such fragile foundations and our common interests are so small, that one film, on which Poles go mass, film entitled. Volyn, leads to a hasty, knee-puffed adoption of such a resolution in the Polish Sejm and in the parliament of Ukraine, is that really the reason for what we are observing? And the second question is: Why are there three reprehensible wordings in this text? Firstly, there was a phrase about the anti-communist struggle of Ukrainian formations, which can be interpreted as support for UPA. Secondly, we are talking about stigmatizing forces that aim, I do not know, to disrupt the reconciliation process between Poland and Ukraine, and the question is whether we are referring to the border environments. And thirdly, the question is, why isn't it included in this resolution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is the most painful in Polish-Ukrainian relations, i.e. the case of the Bander genocide in Volyn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u454	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, the arguments against this declaration of memory and solidarity of Ukraine and the Polish Sejm were presented previously in the discussion. Unfortunately, not all of you were present, and perhaps not all of you were familiar with these points. At this point, I will ask only one question about how you intend to pursue and punish those who will preach the truth about the Ukrainian genocide. How, because you write down an obligation to do so in this resolution. At the same time, I also have a question of why you are simply manipulating Polish history. I know you want to write your own new story. I agree with this that it is needed - not its own, but true history - but why this declaration of shared memory and solidarity is a false story. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u456	Please. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution recalls the historical fact, the treaty of Ribbentrop-Molotov. None of you question the fact that this is a pact that has permanently entered into the history of our nations, tragically entered into the history of our nations. Both our nations suffered from totalitarianisms of the Third Reich and the Soviet Union. This is a resolution. in the right direction, this is a resolution that is supposed to build bridges, not build divisions, not dig ditches. My question to the applicants for rejection of this resolution at first reading is: In whose name should you act? It is in our national interest to build bridges between Poland and Ukraine and this resolution is in this direction. I do not understand this proposal, let us reject this motion for rejection at first reading and let us adopt this resolution together as a whole of the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u458	Thank you very much. Janusz Sanocki, non-member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Verkhovna Council of Ukraine considered Stefan Bandera a hero... [[Stop your...]] ...decided as a heroic formation of the Ukrainian Uprising Army responsible for the murder of Poles. The problem is that in Ukraine there are many decent, honest people and we, entering such a trap, indirectly glorify the fighters for Ukraine's freedom... [[Moscow.]] ... because these fighters for Ukraine's freedom in the 1940s, during the years of war and later fought for a totalitarian state, fought for a country in which ethnic cleansing was to be carried out, for Ukraine for Ukrainians. [[Applause]] This resolution is a trap. Please, let's not get into this. [[Applause]] [[Go home.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u460	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] No, no, I don't see any need for correction here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] On the other hand, Marshal Richard Terlecki will speak on behalf of the Bureau of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u461	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We accept a declaration of solidarity with Ukraine. This is a resolution which we hoped the Polish Sejm would adopt in its entirety and which today was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a declaration referring to history and the present, above all to the present. Ukraine defends its independence and territorial integrity. On this issue, we are on the side of Ukraine. We recall the facts of history that touch us together: us, and the Ukrainians. On many historical issues we differ, sometimes we differ very much, but we believe that the Polish reason for the state is to seek cooperation with our neighbour, cooperation which will consist in bringing together our historical knowledge, dissemination of historical knowledge in our nations. I also think, of course, that most Ukrainians have no idea what happened in the years 1943-1945 in Volyn. At the same time, we want to look very strongly for such issues and topics, such opportunities that will allow us to build cooperation for the future. And that's the purpose of this resolution. We have discussed here before and I do not want to refer to the performances of historical incompetence of some of the present, there have been very unpleasant speeches here, and I will now refer only to one which has been repeated here, namely that the Ukrainians did not fight the Soviet dictatorship, with Soviet slavery. I had the pleasure of knowing Ukrainian opponents in the 1970s. They were people who risked their lives, their freedom incomparably more than we Poles. We've been threatened by arrests, prisons, internships, searches, and years of labor. This must be remembered and this important part of Ukraine's history must be respected. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u462	Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the motion to reject the draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft resolution in print 946, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 43 Members voted against - 381, 11 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore decided to join the second reading of the draft resolution. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. I understand the proposal has been accepted, yes. I'm opening a discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was not going to ask any questions or present myself in the debate, because I would remind you that the intention was for this resolution to be adopted by the acclamation. I think it would be much better if it did. However, it would not seem appropriate if the only voices in this debate which the High House has heard were those irresponsible and historically untrue, and politically unwise not to use a stronger word, the statements of Members who represent a significant minority in this Chamber. The point is to bear witness to the fact that this resolution not only speaks of historical truth, but also speaks of the historical community of fates of the Polish people and the Ukrainian people, because such a community of fates of our nations also exists. The importance of this resolution, really the most important, is that it looks to the future, that it builds, I hope, common, good, neighborly cooperation in a peaceful Europe of the Polish people and the Ukrainian people, which draw lessons from the history, history of both nations. It is important that this resolution also emphasizes that Poland supports the territorial integrity of Ukraine and that it supports Ukraine's fight for its territorial integrity, because it is not true, as unfortunately fell from this speaker, that Ukrainian blood is not shed in defence of Ukrainian borders. She's pouring, and it's our duty to stand by the Ukrainians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u464	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club, will speak at the moment15. [[There's still club time.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u465	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to say that we're not against this resolution. We're against a resolution in this shape. We know that Ukraine is independent and should be independent. We are aware of the words that President Lech Kaczyński said, of their importance. But, ladies and gentlemen, when preparing a resolution, it should have been consulted well. Personally, I would like to know what the debate on this resolution that was adopted today by the Ukrainian Parliament looked like. I'm sure she didn't look like us. Besides, Marshal Terlecki said a little bit about the scenes that this resolution was first simply not redrafted, but consulted with the Ukrainians, and only then was it thrown at the committee meeting. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown in this way that the Polish Parliament is not the parliament of the Polish State, but is a service provider in relation to Ukraine. [[Applause]] It's just an outrageous situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that we simply proceed with such a resolution, such a document which is not in accordance with the Polish interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Oh, one more thing. I would like to say this: it is a scandal that some of you ask the question of whose interests we are in. Mr Traps, we don't run with French flags. We, if we go anywhere, walk with Polish flags. [[Applause]] I would not want the French, European and Ukrainian flags to be in this Seym, and there would be no Polish flag. Besides, there's one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, who among you has been so involved in the activities of the Ukrainians in the defence of Ukrainian independence as Paweł Kukiz? [[Applause]] Have one of you just raise your hand and say that he was at least half as involved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u466	Please. Mr Konrad Głębocki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u467	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Club of Law and Justice on the draft resolution of the Polish Parliament Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Law and Justice supports the draft resolution. Polish-Ukrainian relations are not easy. A tragic event in our history was the Volyn slaughter. The Polish Sejm recently adopted a resolution in which in the name of historical truth and the memory of the victims of the murdered Polish population, the defenseless population in Volyn the things were named by name. In international relations, good relationships cannot be built without building on the truth. The draft resolution, which we are proceeding today, does not conflict with the resolution of 11 July. The contemporary Polish-Ukrainian relations are necessarily largely focused on supporting Ukraine as a country whose territorial integrity has been violated by Russia, a country which should be free and democratic. We have a strategic partnership with Ukraine. After the last parliamentary elections, Poland conducts its own independent foreign policy, in which close relations with Ukraine have entered from the beginning, which does not mean that we should not tell the historical truth, and this happened in the resolution of the Sejm on 11 July. The proposed text of the joint declaration of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine raises very important issues. In the historical dimension it resembles e.g. The infamous Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, which had tragic consequences for Poland and for nations in this part of Europe. Today, Germany is a democratic country, our ally in NATO, a partner in the European Union, but should not be surprised that, given our historical experience, we oppose the implementation of the project. Nord Stream 2, which violates EU rules and is contrary to the Energy Union. Nord Stream 2 is also extremely unfavorable for our eastern neighbour, Ukraine. The declaration also includes a joint opposition to violations of international law. Peace in Europe must be based on respect for international law standards. The declaration recalls the weakness of the international response we had before [[♪ The bell ♪]] World War II. The lack of response to violations of international law has encouraged the regime to be violent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club, will speak at the moment. There's club time left.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to begin by expressing my sympathy for the Polish legionaries who had to march with Napoleon to Poland under these French flags to liberate her. [[Applause]] Yes, you must always be careful what you say. Mr Sławomir Nitras said what we certainly wanted to say as a parliamentary club in this brief debate. And I would like to add one word of protest to the other word, which I will say in a moment. Namely at the time I published - the first edition - such a collection of stories by Stanisław Srokowski. This book also contained stories about the help given by Ukrainian neighbours to Poles, who were fleeing this slaughter, the perpetrators of which were undoubtedly Ukrainians. But I do not wish Mr Robert Winnicki in any formula to use works of art for his shameful policy, which he is practicing from this pulpit. [[Applause]] For a long time, actually from the beginning, since he was a member of the House. That's not what literature is for, that's not what Volyn's movie is for, it's a really moving movie. It should not be used for such a debate. And what Marshal Terlecki said, no doubt [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's extremely important. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] If Members such as Mr Winnicki had at least for a moment remembered how millions of Ukrainian peasants were murdered by the famine that Stalin artificially caused... [[What do we have to do with this?]] ...so they don't get those words through their throats. You only repeat one word: Bandera, Bandera, Bandera. And Poland? [[Applause]] [[What about us?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u470	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Kukiz, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor. [[Correct, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: This is ridiculous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, there is a man who is probably the biggest supporter of the Polish-Ukrainian brotherhood, [[Applause]] who dreams of Poland and Ukraine being like a brother and sister who devoted many years of his life to very frequent contacts with Ukraine, which documents border cemeteries in Ukraine, which also has relatives in the territory of today's Ukraine... [[So do we.]] ...whose sleep. My father was a Kresowiak. This is not self-baptism, but I have infected many people, from the circle of Law and Justice also, this love for Ukraine, the love for Majdan. [[So what's bothering you about this resolution?]] I remember when these horrible events began, many people in conjunction with the right hand said: Help me. They said, "No, in life, they're bandits, we're not gonna help. At the moment, they are among the greatest activists, the greatest allies of Ukraine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I can't accept that we're skipping... I'll tell you straight. You often refer to the Lord God. I'm appealing to him, too. The Lord God will never give true freedom to those who worship Satan, and such were without a doubt Bandera, Shuchevych, SS Galizien and all this feat. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u472	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u473	If you care about Ukraine's freedom and believe in the Lord God, then for their sake and for our sake let us work on this resolution, I beg you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u474	Thank you, sir. You have the voice of Adam Snatch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important resolution. This is not perhaps the most outstanding literary work if we read it, but there is one thing that is fundamental in this resolution: it is common. Its content was adopted today by the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine and has a chance to be accepted by our Sejm. Whether you like it or not, Ukraine is a neighbour of Poland, it is and will be our partner. And whether you like it or not, Ukraine is facing conflict today, in Ukraine there is a war on Donbass, it has been attacked by a foreign country, by the Russian Federation. Today these words came from this speaker, a reminder of President Lech Kaczyński's speech from Tbilisi, who said that today it is Georgia, tomorrow it could be Ukraine, and in the near future my country, Poland. Remember those words. Those are important words. [[What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill?]] Today, when I listen to Members of the Kukiz Club15, I feel that we are talking about completely different resolutions. You are talking about Volyn, and here there is no controversial contention in this resolution, here is the recall of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact. [[Anyone who signs can be punished. What are you saying, man?]] In our fundamental national interest is to support a democratic, free, safe Ukrainian country... [[No Bandana, no bandits.]] [[Without Shuchevych, absolutely.]] ...which will be explicitly supported in its European aspirations. This is our fundamental national interest. You, questioning this resolution, which has no controversial content - here we are talking about historical truth, about the pact of Ribbentrop-Molotov - want to play internal political affairs of Poland. You want to build your political capital... [[What are you saying?]] ...on really fundamental matters... [[You're not modern.]] ...on foreign policy issues. This is absolutely unacceptable. Never in the Polish Sejm should words be as shameful as those that fall out of your mouth. [[Voice from the room: But what words?]] [[Something like that.]] Security issues, foreign policy should be excluded from the current political conflict. I call on all Members to adopt this resolution, even though it is not the most outstanding in terms of content. But she's important... [[For your family.]] ...because it is a common text adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine. This is a step in a very good direction and I hope you will finally understand that security matters are not matters that can be played inside. [[Applause]] [[If it's so important, where's Petru?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u476	Thank you. Mr Kaminski, next to the European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are not a total opposition, and decency requires that we praise the government if it does something good. This resolution is a step in the right direction and I wanted to thank you in this House as an opponent of the Law and Justice... [[Impossible.]] ...that you were involved in this resolution and that this resolution, I believe, will be adopted. [[The joy in the room, the bell.]] [[Give him honey.]] Yes, it's true, Polish-Ukrainian relations are difficult. I'm sure they're being shadowed by the Volyn slaughter, a crime for which there's no excuse. And it is good that this crime has been condemned by Poles for many years. But, of course, on Polish-Ukrainian relations there is also a shadow of the destruction of the church before the war, forced polonization, persecution of the Ukrainian minority, which in large areas of the Second Republic was the majority. I want to say that we cannot disagree with the fact that Ukraine is not only defending itself today. Today, Ukrainian soldiers who defend themselves against the aggression of Russian imperialism, defend themselves - I will repeat these words - defend Europe and defend Poland too, because history shows that every time Russian imperialism reached for our neighbours in the North and East, to the Baltic countries or Ukraine, then it reached for us. Here it rained, ladies and gentlemen, saying that someone here is accusing someone of being a Russian agent. I, frankly, didn't hear that in the debate, but because I'm very interested in Russian history... [[I'm on my own.]] ...I want to tell you that in Russian history, and I will quote a classic, apart from agents of influence, there is also a category that Vladimir Iljicz Lenin described as useful idiots. I do not address it here, God forbid, to anyone, but in the history of Russia, especially Soviet Russia, the use of useful idiots had its long tradition and people in the best faith served Russian interests, believing that they were not doing so. It is a good thing that the majority in this House wants to adopt this resolution, which is about the past, about the present, but - Mr Marshal - it is also directed towards the future, and good, because I hope that when we are able to overcome what is bad in our history, we will be able to build the future of free, independent and European Ukraine. And I hope that the votes against this resolution in this House will be as little as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bear, sign up for us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u478	There you go. Mr Kornel Morawiecki, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd rather be on the side of useful idiots than the side of hypocrites and liars. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] I believe that this is not a declaration of memory and solidarity, this is a declaration Forgetting and cheating. [[Applause]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is not the truth that draws many sentences from this declaration. It was not as you say that Yalta and the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact both our nations touched equally, because the Ribbentrop-Molotov and Yalta pact gave the Ukrainians the limits they now have and took half of Poland. That's the truth. [[Applause]] [[The Soviets.]] You can't build good values between nations, between nations on false ground, because that's not what you're going to build anything out of. We share the Ukrainians, ladies and gentlemen. We not only divide ourselves, we divide the Ukrainians, because some Ukrainians, together with the Soviet troops, liberated Ukraine and Poland from the Germans who wanted to destroy us, and the other part fought against the Germans and destroyed Poles and those Ukrainians. The Ukrainians who were on the Soviet side... their blood flowed through the Dukel Pass. We can't forget that. [[Applause]] We can't make a resolution that divides. It's just a misunderstanding. I am asking you not to adopt this resolution. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u480	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. [[Mr. Marshal, do you have any questions...]] Speak up, please. [[Mr. Marshal, what about time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u481	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of the year I was a participant in the Forum for Europe - Ukraine and in this forum, ladies and gentlemen, I discussed during the panel on Ukrainian presence in NATO. Unfortunately, one aspect of this resolution is cheating Ukrainians. [[What's this?]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we consider the situation in Donbasa, we already have a model - it is Transnistria, it is Ahab, it is Ossetia. This is the potential for many decades, not to mention Crimea, to which Ukraine will also have claims for many decades, Russia will have claims and the situation will not be settled. What does that mean? This means that Ukraine will not be admitted to NATO for long, long years and may not be accepted at all. That is why it is also worth paying attention to this aspect. Like the European Union in 2013, the Ukrainians adopted a European structure that nobody wants in the west of Europe - just as they do not want Turkey - and this was, among other things, the same as they do not want Ukraine. One of the reasons for the crisis was one of the reasons for the Russian response... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...the same talk about NATO to the Ukrainians today is simply cheating them. Apart from the whole issue of Polish-Ukrainian relations, apart from the untruth contained in this resolution, it is simply cheating, it is speaking geopolitically false. The problem is that we and the Ukrainians should build relations in a transparent way. [[Mr. Marshal, the time for non-members has been exhausted.]] I'll tell you what. Most of the participants on this panel that I was talking about Ukraine in NATO, most of the participants, were Ukrainians, who first, as I presented a hard geopolitical interpretation to them, were outraged that I was against them, because I was also talking about UPA, because I mentioned all these issues, but when I told them: dear Ukrainians, you must realize that you are generally alone and as much as you will fight yourselves, as much as you will have, and you must be guided by your national interests, just as Poland must be guided by its national interests, and when they confronted the facts as they stood up and how they were exposed, and they will be exposed, then they said: yes, you are the only one who has spoken honestly on this panel, you are the only one who presented the Polish position, the national interest, you are the only one who said honestly. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What are you talking about?]] And so we must approach this matter honestly and beyond aspects of historical untruth, those foundations which will result very badly in the future, and I appeal from this place: let us not deceive the Ukrainians also with this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u482	Thank you. Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If this resolution served the good of Ukraine, I would be the first to support it. My grandmother was Ukrainian, my family comes from the Kresów, I help the Ukrainians... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What about time?]] ...I know Ukraine and I know that Ukraine is deeply divided. But the post-Bander environments, post-Soviet environments, imposed a false historical narrative on her, the whole Ukrainian society. We cannot close our eyes to this, we cannot take naive action, following godly wishes and our untrue ideas. Today, if we use the formulation of those who fought for freedom in Ukraine, then all Ukrainians will understand this as support for the CNS and UPA. We can't close our eyes on this. Secondly, my reservations are that the resolution was submitted to us here, to the Sejm, since today the Verkhovna Council adopted this resolution. And we didn't have a chance to discuss this text before. It is not possible to put us, the Polish Sejm, in such a situation, because it turns out that we are basically subject to what the Verkhovna Council of Ukraine will do. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as Mr Winnicki said, in a sense we are persuading the Ukrainians, creating them a false perspective - this is a big mistake and this is us Ukrainians will not forget - because we are not able to come to them with any real help. You know that very well. I believe that this resolution contains many historical forgeries, abstracts from the situation, does not serve Polish-Ukrainian relations well. He's just a bit of a painting for us, because he's abstracting from what really happened in our relationship. I ask that this resolution be rejected, and I will vote against it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u484	Thank you, sir. I inform Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski that the Modern Club has 20 seconds left. [[And Mr. Winnick's five minutes.]] You'd like to speak, wouldn't you? [[Yes, I would.]] There you go. [[The quote will be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ołeh Sencow, Ukrainian director, was sentenced to 20 years in prison for Majdan in 2014. Communitys and ethnic groups in modern societies are condemned to coexist independently of rhetoric of ideologists, racists and xenophobics. [[Applause]] [[Where's the jacket?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u486	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. [[Formal conclusion.]] Before we proceed with the vote, Mr Adam Szłapka, who has made a formal request. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I make a formal request to change the way in which the discussion is conducted, because this discussion, which we are dealing with, in principle, throughout today's sitting, is conducted in a non-regular manner. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, non-members shall have 6 minutes of speeches during the whole sitting. I have witnessed how Robert Winnicki spent practically all this time during his first reading, and now he has been performing for three minutes. With full respect to Mr Robert Winnicki as a man, but for me as a Member, it is a very serious problem that I have to listen to such things from the speaker in the Polish Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u488	Mr President, I have already closed the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u489	Yeah, that's a formal conclusion. But, Marshal, the discussion was held in a non-regular manner. Non-members have spoken out of the Seym Speaker longer than representatives of the clubs. [[Longer than a club.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u490	Mr President, I have closed the discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u491	Therefore, Mr. Marshal violated the Sejm's rules. This is a big deal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u492	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u493	I'm asking you to explain this, because it's a matter of It's not just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u494	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u495	...not just this resolution, just the whole discussion in this...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u496	Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u497	...order of business. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u498	I would like to inform the High House that Mr Robert Winnicki has time and has exceeded 30 seconds. [[That's not true.]] [[But three minutes now he's been performing.]] He should be talking 2 minutes 15 seconds. [[They're from Modern, so they can't count.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us no longer discuss these seconds. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft law, excuse me, resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution in print 946, presented in full by the Bureau of the Sejm, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 367 Members voted against - 44, 14 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the Declaration of Remembrance and Solidarity of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 20 hours 21 min 26]] I'm reopening the session. We would like to refer to items 19, 20 and 21 of the agenda: 19. First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the principles of repayment of certain debts resulting from credit and loan agreements. 20. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the restructuring of loans denominated or indexed to a currency other than the Polish currency and on the prohibition of granting such loans. 21. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the restructuring of foreign currency housing loans in connection with the change of foreign exchange rates to the Polish currency. I would like to inform the High House that 21 ladies and gentlemen have joined the questions. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the list of people who are written down for questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Please, the first person to speak will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz. You're welcome, sir. Mr Gonciusz? In that case, please take the floor of Mr Arthur Gierada.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u499	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This speaker was already mentioned today about the recommendation S, which the national banking supervision issued in 2006. He wanted to ban loans in francs. Then one of the clubs, who is still in this House today, carried out a frontal attack on the committee that issued it. I'll give you some quotes here, among others. from his official position: The recommendation of the Commission for Banking Supervision does not find any confirmation or justification in the bank's financial results. Therefore, we do not share the concern argument put forward by the Banking Supervision Commission... [[Mr. Marshal...]] ...for the sustainability and financial security of borrowers and banks. Interestingly, the Committee on Banking Supervision, through its vague and unconvincing support in the facts of the action, has proved that it only pursues the interests of banking corporations. It puts the interests of the largest banking networks above the interests of ordinary citizens and the public interest. Minister, do you know what club made that statement? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will suggest that the shortcut of the name of this club is 3-letter, starts with a "p" and it is not the Polish People's Party. And I have a question to ask to the right: Are you not ashamed today and are you able to apologize to the franchise for what you did then...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u500	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u501	...and for what situation have you brought them into? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u502	Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u503	Thank you, Marshal. I'd like to say... to President Kaczyński. Mr. President, I know you don't have a franc loan, and you're not interested in this case... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u504	I'm sorry, sir, but... [[Why are you turning off the microphone? You should pay attention...]] [[What's the situation...]] I'll let you know why I turned your mic off. If Mr Nitras had calmed his emotions for a moment and listened... [[I'm very calm. You're turning my mic off...]] I'm getting the impression... [[You're not a marshal yet.]] ...I get the feeling you're not. I inform you that we are in the process of asking questions about a specific law. Mr President, please go to the question and leave this kind of dubiously witty... [[But let me talk.]] ...probably hilarious trips. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u505	I know, Mr. Marshal, I know, but I have a favor to ask of you. Don't be really nervous, don't defend President Kaczyński, he's doing great. On the other hand, it is a very characteristic attitude that at the moment when the House talks about franc credits, President Kaczyński simply has it in deep respect. I have a question. It's not the fault... Of course it is President Duda's fault and his political background that today you are not fulfilling that electoral promise you have made. Nobody forced you to do this, you said it yourself: in three months we'll trade all the credits. But my question is this: Why, if you make promises without covering and do not fulfill them when you gain power, do you not want the Sejm to consider the proposal of the Platform that allows for the conversion? It doesn't say how the Kukiza project, that everyone has a duty to convert, doesn't destroy the banking system in Poland, doesn't destroy the structure that exists, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it allows you to create in a controlled way a procedure that descends from the most dangerous, especially those most heavily debited loans and passes on to the conversion in a safe and secure way for customers and the banking system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u506	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u507	Why don't you let...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u508	Thank you very much, sir. [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u509	...for this project to be procedated? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u510	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Ewa Drozd.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u511	But, Marshal, don't be nervous, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u512	Thank you, thank you. I inform both the Member and the High House that you are absolutely right. President Jarosław Kaczyński does not need a defender in my person, but both you and the High House need a marshal defender of authority in a lack of seriousness, which you are introducing to the speaker. Please ask me to ask you a question... [[Mr. Marshal, I have a request that you do not abuse the role of Marshal to argue with the MPs.]] ...Eva Drozd's messenger. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u513	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to return for a moment to the presidential election campaign and to the words that have repeatedly been said in different places. And even if we wanted to explain it by saying that the campaign is governed by different rules, these words were also spoken in May 2015 in the Senate. Let me remind you that then the presidential candidate, the current President Andrzej Duda, said: I believe that these loans could be converted according to the course at which they were taken. I will try to intervene in this matter. The president has a huge ID to handle difficult cases at the state level. My question: And how did the president at the state level handle this difficult matter? Is the bill under review today fulfilling this electoral promise, or is it an election course? Mr. President, I don't think that's the solution the borrowers have been waiting for, not like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The promise was believed by about 600,000. François. These people voted for you, Mr. President. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u514	Thank you, and I would like to ask Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2006, one of the well-known politicians said: Citizens are adults and have the right to some recklessness in decision-making. I would like to ask if politicians also have the right not to be reckless, but to make promises completely uncoverable. We all know about franc credits, a lot of reckless people, but I would also say I know a lot of people without filling who didn't use franc loans, but gold loans. Therefore, the question, and basically the proposal to all the clubs that submitted projects here: In fact, a systemic, comprehensive solution is needed and all the projects require leaning over them, because there is no way to carry out the project Kukiza, quite imperfect is the project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Presidential. Therefore, there is a request, a proposal to actually lean on all projects to do so as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u516	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski. Is Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski in the Seym? There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u517	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The banks have successfully prepared for the earnings of these large moneys. As we know, how they managed to make a lot of money on bonds, they prepared and earned the same here. Why are we defending these banks now and not defending citizens? First of all, the banks aren't threatening to fall. We know that the courts are doing very well with this, even if there is a clear opinion of the courts, but we also know that the Supreme Court has supported all these lower courts. [[Game in the O.R.]] I think we need to... help them and go into this. that direction, because as we know, and the banking law was disturbed, it was abandoned, as well as the prohibited clauses were, it is not respected. That's why again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call for this to be handled at once, because I do not believe, Minister, that there will be a second stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u518	Thank you, sir. And Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u519	Dear Marshal, I listened to the presentation of individual projects and I hope that when they are addressed to the finance committee, we will talk about important matters there. But for this conversation, for the date of this conversation, it's important when the government's position is prepared. Because we said it was worth considering all the provisions in the contracts, but they need to be evaluated by the relevant authorities, i.e. to issue a decision in this respect - the Financial Supervision Commission, the UOKiK, the Financial Spokesperson. But it won't be without a government position. That is why I am asking when the government will prepare an opinion on this project, and if today it has an opinion on this matter, would the Minister be able to present it, because it is extremely important for the whole process, because the process is one decision, but also the deadline for this to happen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's why it's a question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u520	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! President Andrzej Duda, in his candidacy, committed himself to solving the problem of citizens with loans denominated in francs. He was talking about currencying on the date of signing the contract, deluding a real debt reduction. We are receiving a project which under no circumstances is the fulfillment of these promises. It expresses such a political spread - the gigantic difference between the value of words for buying votes and the ability to take full, real responsibility for them. And here's the question: Will the president show up with this real, declared project? I'm asking for an answer. The main course isn't gonna replace it. Among the many allegations against the project, the main point is that the adoption of this law will strengthen the agreement to award the so-called. Foreign currency loans which were found to be unlawful by the Supreme Court judgment of 8 September 2016. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask the applicant to refer to these allegations, in particular in the context of the operative part of that judgment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u522	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Jan Szewczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask all the applicants whether you do not think that the issue of removing this systemic risk, which is undoubtedly Frank's loans, but not just the so-called ones. franc loans, but also e.g. Polysolokata, will not be a measure of our civilization development, because Hungarians, Croatians, Austrians, Icelandics have already dealt with this problem, and yesterday Romanians, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer to Romania. The European Union has requested Romania to withdraw the so-called "city'. BIT agreements, i.e. mutual investment agreements - banks threatened to enforce far-reaching damages in this way. And the President of Romania withdrew from these agreements at the request of the European Union. I would ask you very much to check with the President's Office, the Polish Government whether such facts have occurred, because if so, it would also make it much easier to solve this problem in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u524	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u525	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is addressed to the rapporteur of the bill tabled by the Members of the POs, but before I ask it, I am not surprised that you have tabled this law at the moment. Today, after the lost elections, there is such a collective revelation - fantastic ideas. It's a shame it's so late. But this bill isn't even average. This bill divides, it's biased. This bill tells us who can, what can't. And that's what my question is about. What philosophy did you have when writing this law that you again divided it into those who could benefit from this law or not who have an apartment or not, who bought a smaller apartment or a larger apartment, or those who raise children or do not raise children, rather than simply - thieving loans and defrauded citizens? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u526	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furgo. There's no envoy. In that case, please, Mr Tadeusz Dziuba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u527	I believe that all the projects will be discussed by the relevant Sejm committees. There will probably be various types of amendments. The amendment establishing a completely new mechanism, namely allowing borrowers to so-called loans, may also be tabled. franchise, to those who paid off part of the loan so that they could pay off the rest in gold on the day they took the loan. The question to the designers of all three projects: How would you view this kind of amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u528	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Jakub Rutnicki a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u529	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a very important person missing during this debate: the prime minister, the super prime minister of Morawiecki, I remind you, the president, the horror, the Western bank. I don't recall the Prime Minister warning people about what might threaten them. There's no time for bullshit here, actually, ladies and gentlemen. It's just that the franchise needs to be helped, because it's not just a matter of these months or almost two years, but it's a question for life. I know it in a personal, family way. It's not just a question of whether I can afford another installment every month, but it's a question of what's going to be in the '20s, what's going to be in the '30s. How much are my kids gonna lose 'cause I'm not gonna have for their education? And what happens later when I'm retired? For 30 years, I'm gonna fight this loan, and then I'm really gonna stay with a real estate that's worth maybe 20% of what I gave to the bank. We need to take care of this issue and especially the big one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] appeal to the President's representatives. President Duda has promised this override. Now it's a duty. All of us, so we can really help the franchise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u530	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u531	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have a question for the President's side, the government side, the representatives of the Law and Justice Club, the Platform, the PSL, but not the Modern side, because they've already shown that they're not interested. Are you in favour of going further in such a way as to run it and take care of it on the basis of a fast legislative path? I think we all agree today that time was here, and he's gone. And in fact, in this whole system solution, we're all in agreement here, you need instant action time. If we know our practice properly, we'll have enough for a week. Question to all parties: Are you able to sign one joint action in the name of the interests of the Polish State? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u532	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an appeal to the representatives of the POs to stop replicating currency credit lies. Do you know that an indexed or denominated credit is a zloty credit, as the applicant, a representative of the PO is saying? The modern representative said: "Be moderate. " So I have a question for Modern. Didn't you learn from the past? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u534	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u535	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I do not know what to draw conclusions from, since we have neither been responsible for public finances nor, for example, for public finances. I didn't work at the bank. Don't scare the citizens of Modern, really. It's not like if you lie to the citizens in the stand, they'll believe you and believe that the Modern is responsible for the French loans. This is absolutely ridiculous what you're saying. I wanted to ask the representatives of the initiatives about the issues of prohibited clauses in contracts, those provisions that the Competition and Consumer Protection Office questioned and referred to as illegal. What is your opinion on these decisions? Should it not be so that if the office considers a clause, the provision is not in accordance with the rules, it should automatically [[♪ The bell ♪]] indicate e.g. the solution and the provision to which this non-compliant provision should be converted into a contract? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u536	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Cieślinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u537	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the election campaign, Mr President announced that if he won the election, he would propose regulations within three months that would solve the problems of the franchise forever. At the same time, he referred to the illegal activities of banks and the inefficient state. Today we see that the deadline has not been met, to put it mildly, and the proposed law does not solve the problem in any way. Return of spreads in the case of a loan of 350 000. PLN drawn up a few years ago will be approximately 18 thousand. zł. However, the full value of the bank's liability at present is often twice as high as the amount of the loan taken up. The bill will in no way relieve borrowers. By the way, I'd like to ask you two specific questions. On the basis of which a limit of 350 thousand is proposed. zł, if the projector claims that the spreads were established in a manner contrary to the applicable law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why should the interest payable to the borrower on the bank be at the level of half of the statutory interest? It's hard to see a law here, let alone justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u538	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u539	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the President, who promised during the election campaign to all borrowers with loans in francs, to improve their situation so that they could pay off the same loan more easily. So? He's ducking so much that he's presenting us with a bill that talks about a spread back. My question: Is the borrower, if in such a case he agrees to this return of spreads, closing the way to assert his rights and return greater obligations in court? I would like to get a clear answer, because that would definitely be against borrowers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u540	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. In view of the above, I ask you to address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Nowak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u541	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Three questions have been asked. I do not see Mrs Skowronska, she asked for the position of the government. The government's position will be presented during the work in the finance committee on individual proposals, because all these projects have positive things. The President's proposal seems to contain the most of them. On the other hand, the government will certainly be guided by the stability of the financial system, because the violation of this stability will affect 38 million Poles, all of us. The government's position will be presented during the committee's work. With regard to the question of Mr Maciejewski, whether we will sign the fast legislative path, I would approach the matter differently. We will subscribe to smart solutions that will not compromise the financial stability of our system. Please note that there is a Financial Stability Committee composed of the President of the National Bank of Poland, the Minister of Finance, the President of the Banking Guarantee Fund and the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission. There is a working group that is working on solutions that will not compromise the stability of the financial system, but will restore, as it is said, the balance of the parties and try to solve this problem. It is planned that the work will continue until February 2017, so it is still 3 months. When it comes to such an important issue, where every solution is like walking on the ridge, you can't slip one way or the other, because it can destroy our financial system, and we don't want it to. As far as Mr Rutnicki is concerned, Prime Minister Morawiecki is entitled to secondment, in this case me, but he is working, believe me, from dawn to night. It's not like you suggested he wasn't here because he's not interested. On the contrary, he's very interested, but... [[I'm sure the bank president should be interested.]] Yes, he was the president of the bank, using his experience, his knowledge for the good of Poland. However, please do not insinuate and note that Mr Morawiecki was the President of BZ WBK, who did not grant these loans, but took over the portfolio from the Bank Credit, where these loans were. So please do not direct any insinuations under the guidance of the Prime Minister, because he works from dawn to night. His knowledge and competence are very useful for our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u542	Thank you very much, Minister. And please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland Minister Maciej Łopiński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u543	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with why there is no overall solution to the problem and the mechanism for the conversion of credits presented by me today by the High House. Well, the project, as I have already emphasised, is the first step in solving problems related to loans to foreign currencies. We have two problems right now. The first one is still felt by customers by banks that are significantly different from market currency spreads, and the second one is an increasing foreign exchange risk and increasing customer debt. The proposal presented today by the High House introduces statutory mechanisms to limit the effects of the first of these problems. The second problem, i.e. The elimination of exchange rate risk is a problem facing bodies operating within the Financial Stability Committee over the coming months, as announced at a conference with the participation of President Adam Glapiński. The bill is a compromise. Like any compromise solution, none of the parties fully satisfied. From the point of view of safeguarding the stability of the Polish banking system, it is not possible to solve all problems related to indexed or denominated loans on a one-off basis. I do not know if you remember, but at the beginning of January this year the President's Office presented a proposal to solve the problems in a comprehensive, three-point proposal, where the problem of spreads was only one point. The second point referred to the conversion of loans after the so-called "credits'. the fair exchange rate, which was related to the costs incurred by consumers receiving loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies with gold credits after the so-called. It's a fair course. Finally, the third element of this project was the introduction of the debt relief rule for the transfer of real estate charged with this mortgage. What happened? Why did we decide in August this year to hand over only one point from this three-point programme to the High House? Well, a few things happened. The financial crisis on the Italian market has intensified, the financial crisis on the German market has intensified and we have finally had to deal with Brexit. All of this caused us to adopt the position of the National Bank of Poland, which suggested that the issues of conversion should be left to non-legislative action, leave as an action within the Financial Stability Committee of the National Bank of Poland, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Ministry of Finance, which will increase capital requirements, lead banks to be interested in voluntary transfer of these loans, which, of course, reduces the risk of challenging the law which the High Sejm would like to adopt in international arbitration. All this has led to the fact that the project from August this year is one point, only applies to spreads, but the firm will monitor the activities of financial supervision, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Poland and if we consider that these actions do not produce the expected results, we are prepared to present to the High House such a comprehensive and global bill. The next question is Mr Gierad's question, right? [[It's a bullshit story.]] It concerns the admission of franc credits. What else is a ban, what else is a recommendation. The Financial Supervision Commission could not issue a ban and credit could be granted, but in a fair and non-abuse manner. Mr Nitras. I understand that the question of why we do not want to allow the Platform project is not addressed to me. The law firm of the President of the Republic of Poland has not presented an opinion on parliamentary projects and it is not my job to review the projects of ladies and gentlemen of Members. Mr Nitras said that a comprehensive project is needed with the distribution of financial implications over time. Exactly, among other things. This led to the extension of work on the project in the President's Chancellery, as we had long talks with auditors so that the balance-sheet effects of the comprehensive law could be spread over time. The costs would be different for the financial sector - although I would rather talk about the unearned benefits rather than the costs - of tens of billions of zlotys and of 1 billion or 2 billion a year. We have not given up on such a comprehensive law, but I repeat: let us give the financial supervisory authorities a chance to achieve without risk of losing the process before international arbitration so that banks offer consumers conditions for the conversion of loans corresponding to actual costs. I also wanted to answer Mr Lamczyk, who asked why we are defending the banks and not the citizens. Well, the presidential project is just being taken to defend the citizens, it's the first step on this road. I reply to Mr Wilczyński. As I said, if the actions of the Financial Stability Committee do not work, the President will propose a global, complete draft restructuring bill. It's a limit of 350,000. PLN and interest of 1/2 statutory interest. I had a feeling I was talking about it in the introduction. It's a limit of 350,000. On the one hand, it was dictated by the need to defend the legitimate rights of consumers and, on the other hand, by the need to ensure the stability of the financial system. We have assumed that the legislator has such powers, and it is the consumer's right to demand more reimbursement in court proceedings. Here I would immediately like to reply to Mrs Chmiel that the presidential project does not preclude legal proceedings. There is no incti between the adoption by the High House of the draft of the reimbursement of these wrongly levied spreads and the possibility for the consumer to exercise his rights in legal proceedings. We've accepted $350,000. zł, I also feel that I have already talked about this, because in big cities, and in such cities the most commonly used were loans to foreign currencies, for 350 thousand. It was possible to buy 40.45 m2, so it is not an excessive limit, looking at the reality. Although the project is aimed at all consumers, it aims to create aid solutions primarily for people who bought apartments, plots or built houses for their families. This limit eliminates the situation in which 10 apartments were purchased for further rental purposes. Of course, such investments in themselves are not bad, but the project is aimed at solving the problems of the classic Polish family. On the other hand, such a limit allows for the scope of the Act also to cover the situation in which the purchase of the plot and the loan was taken only for the construction of the house. The question of Mr Tadeusz Dziuby - whether the balance of the loan is expected to be repaid at the borrowing rate. This is a problem of translation, I have already said that we will be closely monitoring the supervisory activities of the non-legislative Financial Supervision Commission, the Ministry of Finance and we are ready, if we consider that the President considers these actions to be ineffective, to present to the High House a law which will globally relate to all loans denominated or indexed to foreign currencies, not only to the Swiss franc, but also to other currencies, at these three main points I have been talking about. I have the impression that I have answered all your comments and questions, because these questions have been repeated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u544	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski's representative, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u545	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all those taking part in this discussion, all those who have stayed in the Chamber for an hour. I would like to thank all the club representatives for their opinions. As for Mr. Bear from the Modern Club, I have the impression that Mr. Bear either didn't listen or slept or had a break because I don't think we fully understood each other. I didn't say anything about a transaction. Clearly, over the last 40 minutes, I've been showing this famous hundred francs, saying that there's nothing to trade, because it's impossible, a gold can't be converted. Apparently, Mr. Bear's economic level is similar to that of a bank transfer, apparently he didn't understand. It's hard. Unless the Modern Club proposes a patent to Antinobla -- to convert the gold into gold. The logic of the law, to Mr. Bear again, that's true. The truth that says that the law has been broken, while this House and the government have committed a sin of omission, sir. That's the truth. I made it clear in my speech that the truth is the solution to the system problem. I reply to the individual Members on this occasion that a systemic solution, as the financial spokesman said, is needed. Let me just remind you: When are the best laws, ladies and gentlemen? When they're simple. Many times in our House we mention the law of the dead. Wilczek, the law on territorial self-government from the first term of office. What was the power of such laws? On the fact that they were simple, that every man, simple, not quite well educated, read and knew what could and cannot be. When we create specific pyramids, algorithms, conversions, patterns, believe me, it means that there will be problems, it means that actually the topic will be for interpretation, for analysis, certainly for lawyers, experts, but the problem will not be solved. If, in this House after this debate today, there is serious political will of all parties, with the exception of the Modern Government Party and the President, then either this application will be done quickly or never, that is the truth. It's a question of eight years. I did not want to get involved in my speech, who promised what, when and why, but I want to say one thing: For more than 8 years in Poland this problem has flourished, everyone talks about it, and nobody solves it. It could still be another eight years. I just want to say one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that in Poland no housing program from A to Z has been successfully completed. What does that mean? Is this a country of clumsies, gamblers, lazy, losers of life? Or do we have a system error, but we're not jumping to conclusions? Some people are already alerting me that MdM in five years' time... Here there will be successors, and from this side they will sit, and they will scream. At the demonstrations in which I took part as a Member, I was interviewed by borrowers of this program, Alice, an old Balcerowicz loan. Ladies and gentlemen, no housing program has come out in 26 years, no success, no success. There's no such success. Current loans denominated and indexed are also an example of this. Ladies and gentlemen, we're all talking about banks here. There was no need for banking tax to be the most expensive Polish banks in Poland when it comes to credit handling and lending. These loans were the most expensive in Europe. What does that mean? That we let it happen here. And the banks? Ladies and gentlemen, do I know if the banks are to blame at this point? Well, if someone lets you, creates a doorway, even invites you, then why are we surprised? Let's not be surprised we don't have Polish banks today. This was allowed by someone here in this House - that today we do not have a Polish financial blood stream. The guilt is here, right here. They're not banks, they're just using it. We do not have insurance companies today, Polish companies - also the wine is here, here is the source. And I won't talk for years. 26 years old, ladies and gentlemen. I'm looking at it as a whole, and I'm not driving on the signposts, because that's not the point, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the point. The point of this debate and this discussion is when there are proposals and quick action. If we want to continue to have problems and discussions, let's give, even the bankers will write this bill. It's not gonna work. There are moments in the history of states and nations when husbands appear and make decisions, statesmen. Maybe they don't even ask, they make decisions. I have the impression that we are in a situation when a statesman should appear in Poland, who will make a decision and just do so. He is not mistaken who does nothing, but, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what is worse: mistakes in deeds or sins of omission. For today we are talking about the sins of omission, and these sins of omissions are collapsing, ladies and gentlemen, causing the real estate market in Poland to collapse. There isn't. I myself live on the estate of single-family houses, and unfortunately most of the parcels are empty, overgrown. We're talking unemployment, we're talking non-production. And how is production supposed to be, how is the fight against unemployment if there is a collapse in the credit market, in the mortgage market and there is no movement in the interest? What do we expect? Without systemic change, without system action, ladies and gentlemen, we will be a colony and the best slides, the best program of Prime Minister Moravian, button, nothing. Here, in this House, you have to sit at one table, without historical and personal trips, to really talk about Poland as our homeland, not the electoral interest. And that's the difference. It's just, once again, you have to make a decision. I know that if in this House there is a business or political will to make systemic changes in these matters, to defend the interests of citizens - not visitors, not tourists, and citizens - then believe me: a week and this would be the end of the problem. Our project, ladies and gentlemen, didn't talk about banks staying without money. I wasn't talking about the banks being deprived of borrowers. No, they still have customers who want to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, is it the problem of the bank that people want to pay for a house built? If that's the problem and the tearing of the robes, we say the banking system will be demolished... Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? So when's it okay? When people don't have houses, the shacks are betting, husbands, wives hang themselves, poison children? That's when it's okay? That's when it's the joy of the state and the politicians? Ladies and gentlemen, are we really crazy? If we want to save the system, this whole bloodstream, let's get to work. Let's do this because there's no time for this. Three months is already an ice age, that's eternity, that means there's never going to be a system change. I'm pretty sure that's the hundred I was wearing today, that's not gonna be done at all. That's what you do with one cut, an emergency decree, a system. This has been shown in this House. If they wanted to jump the OFE, it was all night and it was over. Simple? Is that okay? Yeah, it did. No problem. Did you have to deal with the tribunal's case very quickly last night? Is that okay? Yeah, it did. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about things beyond which to connect citizens. Because our project doesn't talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the franchise, it doesn't talk about the Eurowicz. He's talking about citizens. And the fact that the fiscal system - for today it is the main topic, but there is also the insurance system and other activities - destroys, laughs in the eye and breaks the law despite judgments, despite judgments... Once again, since consumer courts and judgments mean nothing, let's solve these institutions. Why the hell are we wasting all this money? Maybe we should strengthen the role of the Financial Ombudsman, strengthen the function of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and let their judgments be sacred and decision-making. Maybe there's a way out. Because today we know they're breaking the law, we know they're draining the market, we know those crooked bankers are throwing money abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not be charmed. Take it easy. In the next six months five banks will disappear from Poland, and we are hoping that they will love us here and stay because we will have pity on them. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 30 banks. I'm not gonna cry if the crooks leave and the honest bankers stay. You want me to cry about it? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Unless someone financed somebody's campaign, maybe they did, he'll have something to cry about. Once again, there's no other choice but a man's decision and a quick action. This is the only way. The only way. I don't know which project will be the most reasonable one here. But once again, a simple, quick solution. Simple. The more complicated it gets, the more confusing it gets, the more sadly nothing's gonna happen. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will put this to the vote. The modern proposal will make it really possible that tomorrow we will all have such a specific test of whether this whole debate made sense, whether it was just a PR show, because a group of interested people came, showed it in the news and went into the world. Tomorrow's the real exam. In fact, tomorrow will be the day when the names of people to whom Poland is at heart will appear. And the truth is, tomorrow we'll know what's next. But I'm begging you, and please, if it's just for the freezer, just to show that we're so good, maybe we should just leave it alone. Let's do this once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u546	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u547	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The project presented by the Civic Platform shows how we are trying to solve the problem, but this is the first voice in the discussion. We have shown that we are very keen to talk and to resolve any comments and doubts related to such loans. These currency loans and settlements cannot be, as the Minister of the Polish President's Office said, the first step, because at work in committee, and I made such a declaration, we are able to... We are in favour of talking about all the details in the Committee on Public Finance, dealing with any problem that is a general problem and concerns the breach of the applicable rules, the application of abusive clauses so that this can be resolved. And it cannot be that in this case we will do as Minister Łopinski said. We are in favour of talking about it, but you know very well that it does not depend on how we talk, it only depends on what decision the Parliamentary Club will make. So we want to make sure that we can work on this project as soon as possible, so that it is a government position, because this is important. Once again, I ask the representatives of the finance department, the Minister, to prepare this position in the near future. The Minister said that Prime Minister Morawiecki had knowledge on the subject, served well, and therefore in the bank's wallet, which he managed, there were loans, among others. foreign exchange loans taken over. And nothing was done during that time. Thus, in a special and perhaps best way, the Minister of Finance will then have an opinion in such a person on how they functioned, at least in one of the banks, such loans. Today, in this Chamber, we are not deciding what form the bill will be. We, when presenting the project as the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, showed that we were ready to talk about everything. And we would like to consider this project as our intention to talk about this problem, to show, if there are, irregularities, what kind of irregularities, how we can eliminate them, and where there have been crimes, the point is that these crimes in the proper procedure should be properly punished. That is what those who have borrowed francs deserved, and that is what those who have earned gold credits deserve. All who have taken such an initiative in caring for their own homes must have equal, serious, reliable respect for the commitments they have made. We're ready to talk at any time, but this deadline and how we talk depends on the government. So we expect a quick decision. But we can also say that we have promised honestly whether or not we have taken this subject responsibly, not like some today, and especially Mr President is withdrawing from it cancer. Cancer is a nice animal in clean water, but in this case Unfortunately, Mr. President mixed up the water a little bit, and it's not such clean water, and it's not such a clean declaration. This is not the completion of a pure declaration that fell during the election period. [[But the Platform could have handled it.]] And for declarations we must also judge all those who promise and promise. It was fairly said that way. And the knowledge about this was because the amendments were tabled, among others. Your colleague from Law and Justice, the Minister present, the previous one, Minister Shamacha. So we worked together on this project before. Today we declare: wherever there is a violation of the law, we will be in favour of clear, legal decisions on this matter. Thank you very much, and I would like to reassure all of you who have waited patiently until the end and will be watching the work of the committee. We are bound by both the state and the honesty and the oath we have taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u548	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the rules for repayment of certain debts arising from credit and loan agreements, contained in print No 811, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The discussion also called for the rejection at first reading of the draft laws contained in prints 729 and 877. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day (prints Nos 923 and 942). I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u549	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Yesterday, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy debated a draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. This project was accepted by the members of the committee as a valid and desirable initiative. Attention has been drawn to the fact that the vast majority of our society considers the family the greatest value in their lives and therefore the family requires protection and state aid. As regards the objections raised, they concerned mainly the wording of the resolution. The greatest emotion was caused by the definition of a family based on a lasting relationship between men and women. Some Members have doubted that this resolution will not be included in the incomplete families. However, in the opinion of the applicants, if we read the provisions of the resolution carefully, it must be stated that the necessary condition for the family to be mentioned is not the situation in which we have a father, a mother and children. It is necessary for a family to be based on such a relationship, a man and a woman, and the way in which it will continue, in no way affects the family's existence. So if a parent is missing because of random accidents, he will still be a family, although the family is incomplete. This also applies to a multigenerational family, because grandparents are grandparents to their grandchildren, but already for their children they are parents, and so they are included in this definition. The applicant also reassured those who feared the threat of the institutions of the secular state. Though the memory of St. John Paul II appears only in the justification of the resolution, it is undoubtedly that the proposed date of the Family Rights Day refers to his person, because it is the day of the inauguration of the pontificate of John Paul II. However, according to the applicants, and I think that not only, our great compatriot was authority not only for believers, Christians, Catholics, but also for a huge crowd of people of all creeds, also for non-believers, for agnostics. Moreover, he was a great advocate of family rights and has always pointed to the great role of the family in society and in the individual life of every person. The appeal to this authority is therefore well - founded. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the draft resolution, asks the Sejm to adopt the draft resolution submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u550	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u551	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I took part in the privilege of giving the position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to the parliamentary draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. The draft is contained in print No 923, the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs is contained in print No 942. I would like to stress that the Law and Justice, the entire United Right, the government under the leadership of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, as well as the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and all other resorts show great concern for the family because the family is the foundation of the state's existence. If there was no family, we cannot imagine the existence of a state as we are accustomed to, in the sense of the existence of society to which we are accustomed. The proposed date of 22 October, which of course coincides with the date of the start of the pontificate of the Holy Father John Paul II, it has a deeper meaning here, because it is directly related to the Holy See's issue on the fifth anniversary of the beginning of his pontificate with the Charter of Family Rights. The Charter of Family Rights is a very interesting document, perhaps the first in human history such a complete picture of the needs of the family and the rights of the family. And I would like to stress that although it is written by the Holy See, we read in the preamble: it was submitted by the Holy See to all people, institutions and authorities interested in the mission of the family in the modern world. This isn't about converting anyone. The Charter of Family Rights was addressed to all people, to all institutions, to all persons, regardless of whether they are believers or disbelievers, regardless of what continent they live on, regardless of what other values they have, if the value is in their own family. It is worth noting that today's procedated draft resolution has waited a long time for this moment so that we can talk about it at all. I spoke at the committee meeting about the fact that this is the fourth time this project has been submitted and it is only for the first time that it has been really procededed. The first time was already submitted on 9 October 2009, more than 7 years have passed, this is the third term in which he is waiting. In the sixth term, he did not get his first reading, nor did he get his first reading in the seventh term, five, five, sorry, marshals at that time and only now can we talk about this important problem. I am very pleased that this project has actually come to this time, which is a reason for us to be satisfied. As for these problems with the concept, although the constitution does not directly define the concept of family, it clearly shows what family is, and speaks about the concept of family in our legal system, refers to family, even in the article. 18 or Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 71, which respectively state that the family is under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland and that the state in its social and economic policy takes into account its welfare; families in difficult material and social situations, especially many children and incomplete ones, have the right to special assistance from public authorities. In accordance with the interpretation of the Constitutional Tribunal, these provisions require the State to take such measures as strengthen the bond between family members and, in particular, the bond between parents and children and between spouses. In the view of the Constitutional Court, these provisions oblige the State authorities to take positive action to strengthen the ties between family members and not weaken them. Another consequence of the provision protecting marriage and family is the social role that the family has to play in relation to motherhood and parenthood. Art. 23, Art. 27 The family and caring code clearly indicates that... Maybe otherwise, I'm not going to say what it says, and I'm going to read it: "Married couples have equal rights and obligations in marriage." They are obliged to live together, to help each other and to be faithful, and to cooperate for the good of the family they have established through their relationship. So the family code and caring code indicates that [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people start a family at the time of marriage. Since I am running out of time, I can only say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft resolution and will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u552	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Magdalena Kochan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We agree with the idea of introducing Family Rights Day. We have no doubt that October 22nd is a really good reason for this because of the work of our compatriot, the great Charles Wojtyla, Jana... [[A saint.]] ...St. John Paul II. On the other hand, the way in which you wrote down and justified the reason for introducing this day raises our doubts and we expressed this during the work of the committee. I would like to say that this draft was introduced to the work of the committee an hour before the beginning of its meeting. There was virtually no time to get acquainted with the very thorough discussion of the kind of records you are proposing. Moreover, Mr Wozniak spoke here about the fact that this is the seventh approach. And I will remind you that not only making the days of the family, but the work for it and the legislation for it seemed to us much more important, therefore, in the field of pro-family policy in the last 8 years, from annual parental leave to 39 billion PLN, which we supported Polish families, we can boast about. Today we will be happy to support this project, provided that we change the provisions you are proposing. Well, in the first sentence in which you say that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, concerned about the future of a family based on a lasting relationship between a man and a woman open to the transfer of life and satisfying the basic needs of spouses and children, sets a day - here the date. You applied the constitutional definition of marriage and wrote it down as a definition of family, and family is more than married couples and children. These are also our seniors, these are the relatives and relatives we have in our families. Is the father raising two sons a family? Family. Would it be a family to apply to your definition in the draft resolution? No, there wouldn't be a family. A mom raising a single daughter is not a relationship between a man and a woman. That's family? Not according to your definition. Therefore, we propose another record of this first sentence: the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, recognizing the family as the foundation of social life, in the interest of its welfare sets a day - here date 22 October - Day of Family Rights. In the next sentence, which you propose here, you write: The Sejm of the Republic of Poland invites all families to complement their tasks and defend and strengthen their rights. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland, if it establishes Family Rights Day on 22 October, does not need to call for the defence of the rights of any citizens on that day, because, acting on their behalf, this day recognizes as a day important to the family and important to it. We propose to delete the sentence - I am not talking about the fact that at least I do not know what it means to complete the duties of the family - saying that the Sejm calls on all families to complete their tasks. [[If there's a possibility, I'll explain.]] The third sentence of the resolution proposed by you ensures that the Sejm will make every effort to ensure that Polish families can feel safe by making the right law, and we believe that, in accordance with the Charter of Family Rights, which you invoke in the explanatory memorandum, we have a duty in the Polish State and in the Polish Sejm to care also for the families of migrants - art. 11 of these cards. You're not talking about that. So we propose a second sentence in this resolution: the Polish Parliament encourages citizens, institutions and authorities to take care of the rights and dignity of every family. If the amendments tabled - I am about to make amendments to the Marshal on the wording of the resolution - you would like to consider them important and important, as well as the arguments I put forward in the discussion, which relate mainly to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we want all families living in Poland, as well as Polish families living outside its borders to be an important subject of our activities, then we will support this resolution. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, I'm handing you an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u554	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u555	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The family is the foundation of society and its development. It is not only a legal, social or economic unit, but, above all, a community of love. If parents do not give their child love for beauty and respect for another person, then their children They're not gonna learn it themselves. A family should be like a marina to return to in times of major crises and failures. The family, regardless of its shape or quality, is a sanctity that deserves respect and all protection. The State is specifically called upon to support the family in an economic, legal and social way, in order to enable it to carry out its tasks in the best possible way. On the other hand, the family has the right to expect public authorities to respect their intimacy and integrity, respect their needs and powers, and above all opportunities to live at a decent level. The initiative to establish a Family Rights Day deserves full approval, but on this occasion it should be pointed out with all determination that such a symbolic gesture to the family cannot be stopped. The authors of the draft resolution in the explanatory memorandum refer to the Charter of Family Rights, which is a specific appeal, among others. to public authorities, to respect the rights and needs of the family, and the needs of Polish families are many and do not concentrate only around the economic plane. The broadest form of support should be any system solution aimed at ensuring the existential stability of the family and its development. In a particular way, the State should focus its efforts on the benefit of incomplete, dysfunctional or disabled families, so that Family Rights Day is a commitment to power to a comprehensive and effective work for the family as the highest good of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u556	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u557	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After a year of government, PiS leaned over family problems and decided to celebrate Family Rights Day. The family is a basic social cell which is an essential part of a properly functioning state. To be healthy, society must consist of a whole host of properly functioning families. And that's the facts. However, it is impossible to agree with the narrow definition of the family used in the draft resolution only for a lasting relationship between man and woman. Such a provision suggests that other family models, namely incomplete or orphan families in particular, do not deserve to be cared for or cared for by the authorities, institutions and all citizens. Why does PiS divide Poles once again? In the project we will also find a record that the resolution concerns Polish families. That's another discrimination. Poland is a member of the European Union, where freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights. We want Poles abroad to have equal rights and access to benefits, just as citizens of these countries, and PiS wants to deprive the family of foreigners' benefits here in Poland. [[Where did you read that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, what about the mixed families, what about the families of the national minorities? Aren't they families? I therefore make an amendment to the deletion. We would like the word "family" to remain. But your whole definition just doesn't add up, it's the definition of marriage, not the definition of family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u558	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Time flies, please add me.]] I'll add to that, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u559	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern agrees to respect and develop the rights of Polish families to a decent and safe life. We also agree that ensuring and protecting these rights is one of the most important roles that this House should play. Therefore, in view of these two issues, we urge all States to abstain from voting on this resolution. Now I'm gonna tell you why. Because it is another empty gesture of Law and Justice, which brings nothing, nothing improves, but merely soaps the eyes and aims to distract attention from all embarrassing failures in recent times of the ruling camp. This resolution is simply empty. The fact that Law and Justice are not really pro-family politics is evidence of the appalling voidness of this project. Let me give you a few examples here. What do family rights have to do with trying to change the legislation on abortion and forcing women to give birth to severely handicapped children who will soon die in great suffering? This question is for Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Secondly, what has to do with the rights of the family has the fear of parents and their children before the great unknown, what is the sloppyly prepared educational law of Minister Zalewska? That is the question to Minister Zalewska. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Let's get to the point, Member.]] What do the ideas of the government have to do with family rights, according to which Polish entrepreneurs, i.e. in many cases Polish mothers and Polish fathers who conduct their one-man business and work hard for their money, pay 40% tax? This is a question for Minister Morawiecki. What does your dislike of sexual education and in vitro education have to do with family rights? After all, lack of smart sexual education translates into bad family functioning. The absence of in vitro in the case of families prevents the birth of children. Do you know what this has to do with family rights? The law and justice of the most pro-family is only in one aspect - in filling positions in companies of the Treasury and in the state administration. Modern doesn't want any more law and justice. We really want you to finally get to work so that you can listen to the voice of Polish families, their needs and start to introduce wise legislation, free from the doctrinalism of the ultra-Catholic environments, aimed at solving the real problems of Polish families. Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, the people are not dark, and the people of such dimness will simply not buy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It's hopeless.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u560	There was no need to add, Madam, that you could fit in time. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u561	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. A well-functioning family shapes us as people, gives us basic patterns and models the right social attitudes. On October 22, it is not a date chosen accidentally for Family Rights Day. October 22, 1983, on the 5th anniversary of the inauguration of the pontificate of the Holy Father John Paul II, Pope of Poles, on his initiative the Holy See announced the Charter of Family Rights. The establishment of the Day of Family Rights on 22 October is to honor that event. During the work on this project in the committee, the voices were raised that we are a secular state and not a Catholic state, so the motivation and arguments of the applicants are discrimination against parts of society. St. John Paul II was a pope whose ministry is appreciated and respected by people around the world, he is an authority Not just for Catholics. For this reason, the motivations of the projectors are absolutely worthy of support. Nor do we agree with the voices according to which the draft resolution should be revised, because in its content it indicates a specific definition of the family and its model, based on a lasting relationship between men and women. Applicants point to the traditional Polish family regardless of how its fate takes place at a later stage. So I do not share the view that other family models have been omitted in the draft resolution, such as: incomplete families and multigenerational families, which are also families. Family Rights Day is a day that must undoubtedly be established. The Free and Solidarni Circle is in favour of this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u562	Thank you, Member. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. [[I signed up, and I'm not there.]] And I don't know if you are. If the Member has signed up, he certainly is. Please, sir, take your place. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[One and a half.]] Mrs Marzena Eagle is the first to ask a question... excuse me... Okla-Drewnowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u563	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is human to err, and I understand that the state, when preparing this resolution, may have confused the definition of marriage with the definition of family. Indeed, in the article. The 18th Constitution is that marriage is based on a relationship between a man and a woman, but the family is numbered there, and the state has drawn this family to the definition of marriage. And in this resolution you harm millions of Polish families, those families that are single, i.e. families where a mother or father raises his children alone, foster families or even partners. I know it's perfect for a family where Mom and Dad are, but life isn't perfect and it's not always like that. So please don't hurt millions of Polish and non-Polish other families, because each of these families is just for us [[♪ The bell ♪]] value. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u564	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski. There's no envoy? In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Anna Soboba to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u565	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that the basis for establishing Family Rights Day is the actual message of the Charter of Family Rights, which highlights the inviolable dignity of the family and its identity, functions and obligations, indicates the legal personality of the family as a community of fundamental life and love, and defines marriage as a union between men and women, introduces a fundamental distinction between marriage and concubine and partnership, identifies marriage as one of the ways of life while respecting the clergy and the unmarried, contains universal and up-to-date rights and obligations of the family in the form of a structured catalog, stresses the [[♪ The bell ♪]] the problem of legal protection even embryos. So that the basis for establishing Family Rights Day is the up-to-date message of the Family Rights Charter by the Holy See, issued by...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u566	Member, thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u567	...on the fifth anniversary of John Paul's pontificate II. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u568	Thank you kindly, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Sylvester Tulayev.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u569	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing a very important draft resolution highlighting the special importance of the family in our country. And this is not an empty resolution, as the Members of the opposition stress. On the contrary, this resolution follows the various laws that have been adopted in the last 10 months of the rule of law and justice, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło. And here we need to highlight very strongly all these programmes that have been adopted, but also the great importance of the intentions, especially today, when we are discussing the draft state budget for 2017. The family - there was saved the amount of PLN 40 billion for family benefits, including PLN 23 600 million for the 500+ programme. This emphasizes that the family has a special place in the optics of the Government of Law and Justice, the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło. And that's why it's so important to adopt this resolution. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u570	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u571	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day is an initiative of the Group of Members of Law and Justice. It is the duty of the State to care for the family and to make a good law for it. The initiative is also part of the concern of Polish families, meeting their needs, implementing programs to restore dignity to Polish families, improving the quality of their lives. And I have a question for the applicant's representative. Will the establishment of Family Rights Day provide an opportunity to stimulate different environments to take action in behalf of the family and prove their appreciation of the family as the foundation of the state? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u572	Thank you. However, it seems that Mr Czesław Sobierajski has signed up since his name appears. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to see the Parliamentary Group on behalf of the European Parliamentary Group. St. John Paul's Heritages II, whom I have the honour to chair, support the adoption of a draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day on 22 October. It is the day of the beginning of the great pontificate of John Paul II. Saint John Paul II, the patron of the family, while still among us, said that he would like to be remembered as the pope of the family. He constantly emphasized that family was the greatest treasure of the nation. During his first pilgrimage to his homeland he emphasized with the power that family is an environment of life and an environment of love. It is necessary to do everything to create conditions for the family: working conditions, living conditions, living conditions, caring for the conceived life, respect for social parenthood, joy of children who come into the world, full right to upbringing and many help in this upbringing. This is a whole great and rich program, which depends on the future of man and the future of the nation. And it is the rule of law and justice that finally responds after so many years to the appeal [[♪ The bell ♪]] St. John Paul II. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u574	Thank you, sir. And I would ask you to ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u575	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the applicants for this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this year you have already excluded single parents from the 500+ family programme. You took away the benefits paid by the maintenance fund because, by raising the minimum wage, you did not raise the income threshold below which the funds were paid. Today you want to exclude them from Family Rights Day. So will the next step be to take away their family benefits? If your single parents and their children are not family for you, this is what you fear. The hardest thing to accept is that in creating such a law, you invoke the Holy Father John Paul. II. I'm sure he wouldn't do that. And to Mrs. Anna Sobecka I have this remark: you didn't even notice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That when you read the Charter of Family Rights, you read two different definitions that are separate from each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u576	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Mrs Halina Szydleko.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u577	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I think it's hard to relate to these allegations, because I've already warned the charges that came out at the committee meeting at the outset. I'm sure the applicants don't discriminate against a single mother. Or a single father. The intention of this record is that the family is based on a lasting relationship between man and woman. We know that a man and a woman always appear at the beginning of life. However, there are different fates and may miss your father, may miss your mother, but this is still a family. Surely this family is equally surrounded by the care of the state, or even more, because it needs more care. [[Applause]] I think that these were basically the main allegations that appeared in these questions, because other questions had rather the nature of rhetorical questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u578	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u579	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all those who speak in this extremely important discussion, especially those who show concern for the family. Not winning cases through a family, not politicising it, but seeing that the family is the subject, not the object of the game - the family is the subject of our actions and our concern. Mrs Kochan was gracious to ask during the committee work and today in plenary about the concept of complimentary. It seems to me that this is a very simple action, just look at the dictionary of the Polish language and you will know what it is complimentary. [[Applause]] There is no need to ask the High Sejm what this word means, but I will answer - even though Mrs.Kochan is not, perhaps no longer interested in this concept and in all this project - complementary means complementary to each other, complementary to each other, or unable to exist without others. This is precisely the concept of complementarity, because our whole country is made up of families, and one family pulled out of this country and suspended in a vacuum would in fact not be able to do it because it has to live in the whole community, in the whole system of the state and society. This is how the word "complementary" is meant. I don't think that's so hard to understand. As far as the concept of family is concerned, we argue, perhaps because there really is no definition of family in the constitution. The Constitution speaks about family, many laws speak about family, but we have very different definitions, even in the Polish legal system, for example. The Social Assistance Act states that as a family, people who run a common household are treated as persons who run a common household, the Law on the Prevention of Violence in the Family says that people who live together are treated as a family. [[Yeah.]] Yes, sir, but the disgraceful thing is that we in our country have adopted the only law against violence. What's that? Violence in the family. If there are laws in the world that talk about violence, there is talk of domestic violence. What else is domestic violence, and what else is domestic violence, and we mix these concepts a little bit. After all, people living together, e.g. The students who rent the apartment together, right, they're not family, and you want to prove to us that they're family. Of course, we cannot agree with this, and we will probably also have to work on this law. If you have doubts and you are talking about the fact that we want to discriminate against anyone, I will not even invoke Polish legislation anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, Art. 16 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the UN General Assembly on 10 December 1948 in Paris states: Men and women, regardless of any differences in race, nationality or religion, have the right once they have reached the age of marriage - attention, coherence - and starting a family. It doesn't add up, either, or, or - and it means that it's inseparable. So that's how the Common Declaration of Human Rights understands the family. If you're going to prove to me that the UN is discriminated against a 16- or 17-year-old girl with a child, that's your problem, not mine. This is not about discrimination, it is about clearly defining the basic social cell, which is most valuable from the state's point of view, because it creates, develops and gives it a future. I firmly believe that the High Sejm will adopt this resolution and it will come into force tomorrow so that we can already on 22 October this year, 33 years after the adoption or publication of the Charter of Family Rights by the Holy See, even in a limited way enjoying it. We also have a day of rights set up by the UN General Assembly, I'm sorry, family day. Family day is celebrated on May 15th. Every year we celebrate International Family Day. Then we have festivals, we have meetings, we rejoice, we enjoy those family communities that are complementary, they work together, like those cogs in the machine. The day of 22 October is to be a day of in-depth reflection on the situation of families, their condition, their problems, how these problems should be solved, e.g. what legislation or resolutions local governments may take action in favour of families. It's about all the institutions, all the associations, foundations and others that are. And finally, let me just tell you that family is the most important institution. The family is also primal to the state. You weren't there, and your family was. For example, the results of the CBOS and CUS studies show that Poles have a common belief, 92% The respondents said that for true happiness a person needs a family. Every tenth adult Pole, i.e. 10% He's planning on starting his own family for the next few years. The family composed of spouses and children is not only the most desirable, but also the dominant figure of this basic social group in contemporary Poland, because in this form lives half of Poles, 1/5 forms a wider circle of families, i.e. multigenerational families. And finally, when it comes to that concept, I don't remember saying it. We can talk psychology, we can talk sociology, we can talk other things. We can categorize family types, we can talk about a family full, incomplete, broken, temporarily broken, reconstructed. We have many concepts, but we know exactly what type. The family we want is what country we want to live in. We want good for everyone. We don't want to, God forbid, what you've been trying to talk about, even impertinent us, discriminate against anybody. We'll take care of every single mother, every child, every person. You say, for example. a deceased person and is a family incomplete. Of course, but it was made on the basis we're talking about. If someone is left alone, for example. A child who grows up gets married or is getting married, already creating his own family and is not a family community in this sense, that is, the basic social cell, the social community he created as a child with his parents. We come to this very positively. We are surprised that some groups or individuals are trying to tell us what we are not talking about, we do not think, we have no such goals. Our goal is the good of Poland, and the good of Poland is also the good of families. And when we talk about Polish families, of course we talk about families in Poland. We will not now mention that they are families, I don't know, foreigners, mixed, made up of people of different races. We're not gonna exchange all this stuff. Thinking of families in Poland, we think of all those who create this community based on this basic social cell, which is the family. And thank God these families are, because if there weren't families, I think we wouldn't have survived as a community either. Thank you very much, Marshal. I firmly believe that we will adopt this resolution tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u580	And was the Member mentioned by name? [[Voice from the room: It wasn't.]] [[It's a one-conciliation sentence.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u581	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear PiS! I have a proposition. I've tabled a draft amendment that talks about celebrating family day, erased the sentence, based on a lasting relationship between a man and a woman. Then we will be happy to support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u582	Thank you, Member. It was supposed to be one sentence. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u583	Position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day, prints no. 923 and 942. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that Polish People's Party has always worked for Polish families. In our programme, we have given great importance to social policy. Just mention some of the achievements of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy at a time when PSL was in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. We were the initiators of the longest parental leave in Poland, we introduced crèches for symbolic gold, the principle of gold for family benefits, recently 1,000. for parents who have not been entitled to other benefits until the introduction of this benefit. The resolution proposed by the applicants is not a new project. Similar projects were already in the Sejm in 2004. Today's aim is to encourage local authorities, associations and foundations to work for the family. I would like to point out that it is not the first time that PiS wants to write down something that - quoting a classic - should be obvious. I would like to ask you at the same time how the drafting of resolutions concerning the family has to decide on the reduction of the budget for the programme.Senior - WIGOR. Aren't seniors family to you? We appeal to the rulers for reflection. We will support all initiatives that are in favour of the Polish family. It is worth recalling, however, that it is not possible to write down by decree that people respect one another, nor is it possible to write down that they obey the law. They should just do it. I would also like to point out to the applicants that Family Rights Day should be every day of the year, not just the day you want to make a holiday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u584	As amendments to the draft resolution submitted were tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this proposal after serving the Members of the table of amendments. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: the report by the European Commission on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity (prints Nos 905 and 915). I ask Mrs Izabela Kloc to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u585	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able, on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to present a draft resolution to the Commission on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission carried out its first reading of the draft at its meeting on 5 October 2016 and adopted a report recommending the adoption of the draft by the High House. This proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council with a signature COM (2016) 270 infringes the principle of subsidiarity as the proposed Regulation does not ensure that the objectives of the intended action at Union level are achieved better than those of national action. The stated objective of the draft regulation is to address the problem when a Member State faces a disproportionate number of applications for international protection for which it is responsible under the proposed regulation. This objective is to be achieved by introducing a mechanism for the redistribution of refugees between Member States, so-called. corrective allocation mechanism. This mechanism would allow for automatic activation of the instrument in emergency and crisis situations. This project will not achieve the above objective better than if the Member States were to act on the basis of national regulations. The important thing is that the solution is defined as the so-called solution. the reference key does not take into account the scale of Member States' commitment to operational support provided to other Member States, to have an external border between the European Union and the reception or integration capacity of the Member State concerned. However, all these elements are important for assessing the current and potential burden on Member States in the context of the migration crisis. High Izbo! It should be noted that, at the same time, the use of automation in the chapter of applicants for international protection between Member States will in fact reduce the level of management of migration waves in terms of quality. I will use a hypothetical example: if, as a result of this mechanism, Poland would be obliged to accept applicants who entered a Member State located far away from Poland from a neighbouring country vis-à-vis that Member State, and then in a short time, Poland itself would experience considerable migratory pressure from nationals of the neighbouring State, e.g. Ukraine, beyond the possibilities of the Polish asylum system, is asylum seekers from the neighbouring country with Poland as a result of this automated corrective allocation mechanism will be sent to other, far-reaching Member States. However, the reception of asylum seekers in a Member State neighbouring their country of origin is preferable, for example because of a better knowledge of the culture and realities of the neighbouring country, which facilitates the process of granting international protection and, in the longer term, integration activities. At the same time, a very important thing is the introduction of the so-called regulation. Financial solidarity and a commitment to the so-called "payments." the solidarity contribution in the event that a Member State temporarily suspends its participation in this corrective allocation mechanism should be understood as a financial penalty for those countries which refuse to accept migrants and an attempt to put pressure on the Member State reluctant to accept refugees. The amount of the so-called solidarity contribution of 250 000. The euro for each applicant for international protection paid to the Member State which is definitively recognised as responsible for examining the application in question should be assessed as particularly high. Moreover, due to the high costs resulting from the need for solidarity contributions, the proposed solution globally, on a scale of all Member States, is less effective than the asylum arrangements that individual Member States can currently apply. Consequently, it must be considered that the proposed solutions contained in the draft regulation infringe the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore, High Izbo, I ask once again for this draft resolution to be adopted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u586	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let me remind you that according to the article. 148cc (paragraph 148c) 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the report shall be held without the right to submit amendments. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Konrad Głębocki will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u587	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland considered. The Law and Justice Club supports this draft resolution. The problem of refugees and migrants, the unprecedented wave of flooding Europe, is the European Union's most important problem. However, it should be resolved in a way that is accepted by all Member States. The proposed regulation of the European Union could lead to an increase in tensions and unrest in Europe, while failing to address the fundamental problem of the influx of migrants. The Law and Justice Club supports the policy of the current government, which has been strongly opposed since its beginning to any attempt to impose a compulsory reception system on Member States. This was not the approach of the previous government, PO-PSL, which, breaking out from the common front of the Visegrad Group countries, agreed to the allocation of migrants - although there was no automatic mechanism at the time - which was designated by the European Union's main quarterbacks in 2015. Political correctness in the European Union precludes linking a terrorist threat to the influx of migrants, and this is a fact. The draft regulation does not comply with the subsidiarity principle because it does not ensure that the objectives of the proposed action at European Union level are achieved in a better way than those of the Member States. The proposed regulation will address the problem even worse in some aspects. The draft regulation calls for solidarity, joint responsibility for the refugee crisis, but joint responsibility should be the consequence of co-decision. Was Poland asked about Willkommenspolitik, an unprecedented opening of borders that was not in line with EU rules? Undoubtedly, this policy, which Poland did not co-create, has contributed greatly to increasing the migration wave. The regulation refers to those seeking international protection, but today we are dealing with the abuse of the asylum system, the impersonation of economic migrants as refugees. Establishment or design of so-called. solidarity contribution of 250 000. The euro for each unaccepted refugee is a simple punishment for a different approach to the migration crisis. Poland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe are accused of enjoying European solidarity in connection with the Structural Funds and now do not want to show solidarity in relation to refugees. However, EU funds are not selfless aid. As in the case of Spain and Portugal in the 1980s, in the case of Poland EU funds constitute a compensation for opening our markets. So let's stop with the narration of Polish ungratefulness. [[Applause]] Migration policy falls within the competence shared by the European Union and the Member States. Part of the proposed legislation is formulated as if migration policy were the sole competence of the European Union and not shared competence. If, in line with the demands of President Jarosław Kaczyński from the beginning of the migration crisis, the emphasis was on border sealing and aid, but in third countries, the migratory pressure on the European Union would now be much less. The proposed regulation is blind to the social moods differing from one Member State to another. Its absolute implementation can lead to anxiety and tensions that we should avoid. The explanatory memorandum of the draft regulation states that the new regulation will address the issue of secondary movements following an escape from the destination of the Dublin system. Is there anything that will stop a refugee who wants to get to Germany at all costs from fleeing from another Member State? The compulsory reception of refugees gives the impression that Europe can cope with any influx of refugees and migrants impersonating refugees. This policy will give us more and more migrants in the European Union. If Europe wants to survive, it should rebuild its Christian face. Multiticuliti threatens the possibility of returning to Christian roots in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u588	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u589	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the resolution proposed by the European Union Parliamentary Commission on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. The Civic Platform will vote in favour of this draft resolution, thus expressing its opposition to the idea of automation in imposing the number of refugees to be adopted by individual countries, as well as to the absurdly high amount of punishment in the event of a country's evasion before that obligation. Indeed, it can be accepted that these two ideas of the European Commission do not fall within the principle of subsidiarity, which has been protected by national parliaments since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. However, when discussing the draft resolution, it is worth looking more closely at the problem of the large number of refugees who come to the European Union and the political use of this problem for political purposes in Poland. Many representatives of the current governing group try to convince Poles that they were the only ones against imposing the number of refugees. It's an obvious lie. From the outset, the Civic Platform has strongly opposed such solutions, stressing that the decision to accept refugees and their number must result from a voluntary decision taken by the country in question by negotiation. A similar position was presented. many European politicians, including the President of the Council of the European Union. However, I would like to stress very clearly: the fact that the Civic Platform was and is against automaticism in imposing the number of adopted refugees does not mean that we agree to a policy of fear and hiding our heads in the sand. Migration policy, in line with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, is, after all, a domain of the European Union in which we would like to be an important player, not a malcontent that is voluntarily located on the outskirts of the Treaty, as is unfortunately the case in recent months. Furthermore, it would be difficult to prove that the issue of a large number of refugees who come to the European Union will be easier to solve for individual Member States and not for the whole European Community. It is worth asking the basic question here: Why was the European Union created, what was the purpose of its founders? The European Union is not about how it may seem to some to draw as much money out of it for infrastructure and then get out of it and put the European flag in the closet, I will no longer say what some call it. The European Union is a voluntary alliance of independent states, not only with a view to removing trade barriers, but also to helping each other solve problems jointly and severally. Solidarity is a determinant of the community of the countries of Europe. Poland cannot ignore the fact that the refugee problem is beyond Greece's ability to deal with it, it cannot fail to note that the enormous burdens in preventing the movement of refugees are taking on, for example. small Macedonia, which, despite its problems, is putting a lot of effort into halting the march of refugees to the north of Europe. The essence of the European Union, through which Europe has been able to think for decades about development, economic growth and slowly forget the wars that have been fought between its members in the past, is that countries that are better off helping those who are in need. We all know how many areas Poland has benefited from this aid, only a blind man would not notice it. At the moment, he needs help, for example. Greece. How can we expect financial solidarity and not to cut funds for cohesion funds if we do not try to demonstrate our willingness to solidarity with the countries that need this assistance in solving the refugee problem? As I said at the beginning, the unwise idea is to automatically impose a limit on admission of refugees and set a horrendously high amount of 250,000. the euro for any person whose country would not choose to accept it. After all, it is a good practice for the European Union to pursue consensus. Help should be done to the best of your ability and with your head. Now, in retrospect, it can be estimated that it was appropriate to approach the previous government, the government of Ewa Kopacz, who agreed to accept a small number of refugees by Poland, although of course this fact was used cynically by our opponents, contributing to their electoral victory. If Poland in the 1990s. She managed without any major problems, and practically without outside help, with the admission of 100,000. The Chechens, who, as soon as the Polish borders were opened, mostly moved to Germany and France, would not be a problem for her to accept 3 or 5 thousand. refugees from Syria or other countries, especially since there was no need for great sharpness or prophetic skills to predict that even these symbolic numbers of people accepted would not be realized. After all, if no one forced refugees to settle in individual countries, it was known that Poland would not be a desirable destination country for those who are fleeing from hell of war. In relations with our partners in the European Union, we cannot use rhetoric: no, because we do not and reject the possibility of any commitment to receiving refugees. With what arguments we can make in the future - if there was a crisis on immigration, e.g. from Ukraine - expect solidarity from Greece or other countries from the south of Europe? Foreign policy must be pursued in a prudent manner: seek allies, not insult partners and discourage them from themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u590	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the European Union Committee on the Commission's draft resolution on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. By translating the Commission's report on European Union affairs into a language, it can be concluded in two words that the Polish side does not agree to the EU dictatorship, imposing limits on third-country nationals or stateless persons by force. The position reached by the committee is in line with the Polish national interest and the Kukiz Poselski Club15 does not intend to question what we think is right but because of being an opposition club. While in the current rule of law and justice we are seeing more and more withdrawal and ambiguity on fundamental issues, the report of the European Union Commission being heard is an official saying: stop blackmailing Poland... not even Brussels as much as Berlin. This is why we are proposing that the Polish Sejm and the government go one step further and, in response to the legislative blackmail that is rejected by the European Commission for European Affairs, the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, decide on the proposed parallel actions. Poland due to the so-called. The lack of European solidarity is put under the wall by German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other EU politicians threatening us to spin a chicken with subsidies. We've been hearing threats like this for almost a year. That is why we propose that the Polish side reminds us that we are a sovereign state which decides the fundamental issues for us. We remind you, as loud as possible: Germany is the beneficiary of Poland's participation in the structures of the European Union. It is Germany that owes billions to Poland by not restoring the reparations of war. It is Germany that has huge demographic problems and problems with the assimilation of immigrants they have adopted. We would like to remind you of the words that the European Union Commissioner for Regional Policy Johannes Hahn said in 2012: The analyses we ordered together with the Polish authorities show that from 1 euro issued by Germany in Poland under structural policy 89 eurocents will return to Germany in the form of orders for German companies. Therefore, the German Government should not scare us out of EU structures. We would also like to remind you that the Germans who blackmail Poland and other countries with EU instruments must first pass the honesty test and pay us $845 billion for the losses caused during World War II. Germany does not hide that such calculations of losses of the Polish side are correct, but they believe that we gave up this money effectively in 1953 on 3 October 2010. Germany paid the last installment of the war reparations of EUR 70 million to France and the United Kingdom for the damage they caused in France as a result of World War I. That is why we demand that this time German politicians have to answer the Polish government's question: How much do they earn for Poland's presence in the structures of the Union and do they intend to pay us back for the destruction of war? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u592	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u593	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Club on the recognition of the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity - for the time being the title of the resolution. I would like to refer first of all to the resolution, because it is neither time nor the public enough to address the issue of refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal proposed today does not address specific proposed amendments to existing legislation, but responds to the proposal for a directive as a whole. This is a logical error because no Member State is able to contribute to the harmonisation of the criteria for the processing of asylum applications across the European Union. The main allegation that the proposed directive is breaking the subsidiarity principle is also missed. The migration crisis has shown that the countries left alone are not doing well. Hence we need to work out a mechanism, but I would like to make it clear that as a modern club we also disagree with the idea that an automatic allocation mechanism or the amount of 250 000. The euro is not a good solution. We believe that other criteria should be taken into account when determining this. Another mistake in this resolution arises at the outset of the document, because the subsidiarity principle cannot be checked by national Parliaments in isolation from the other principles set out in the Treaties, such as the principle of proportionality and the principle of solidarity. As regards the principle of proportionality, it could, if any, be an argument for not adopting a fee rule of 250 000. the euro as compensation for refusing to grant international protection to an asylum seeker. It could also be argued that the fee is disproportionate to the financial capacity of certain countries. As regards the principle of solidarity, it is a fact that some countries, as is the case with Poland, constitute a border between the European Union and the Schengen area and, therefore, there may be an excessive burden on the number of asylum applications in some countries. As a result of participating in the agreement, it is in the interest of all signatories that the burden is even, the conditions for the reception of refugees are uniform and the rules are harmonious. What may be surprising, although the officials responsible for conducting the case on behalf of the Polish government in the Union constantly repeat the phrase about flexible solidarity, i.e. in their understanding of matching the ability to receive refugees to the level of economic development of the host country, vainly look in the draft resolution for references to the principle of solidarity. The arguments used in the draft resolution also mix the question of the real burden of the countries concerned with the hypothetical burden. And so a real burden on the influx of immigrants, and thus the number of asylum applications occur in Greece, Italy or Spain, and in the case of Poland these are hypothetical burdens, so far. Just check how many positive asylum applications have been issued in recent years on behalf of the Republic of Poland. There is and never has been an option for any country to consider an asylum application from neighbouring countries because of their cultural proximity or availability of translators, which is also included in the resolution. Asylum seekers do not choose, ladies and gentlemen, countries where they want to settle because they can adapt to it. Refugees flee from the dangers of life, health, the inability to survive themselves and their families. This is the result of the Convention on Human Rights and the Geneva Convention. However, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the main elements of the dispute contained in this directive, namely the automatic allocation mechanism and charges of 250 000. The euro solidarity contribution for the suspension in this mechanism for every unaccepted refugee, we agree with the resolution and we will vote in favour. However, I would like to stress that this resolution does not exempt the government from developing the best, common to the European Union as a whole, solutions to today's very difficult problems at EU level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u594	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle in relation to the draft resolution expressing the position of the Polish Sejm on the assessment of the compatibility of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person with the principle of subsidiarity. Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, national parliaments have contributed to the proper functioning of the European Union, ensure respect for the principle of subsidiarity, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality annexed to the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in which the criteria for assessing subsidiarity are indicated. The Protocol also provides that any Chamber of the National Parliament may send a reasoned opinion to the Presidents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission stating the reasons why it considers that the draft does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. In an opinion annexed to the proposed resolution, the applicant has demonstrated that the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is not in conformity with the principle of subsidiarity for the reasons set out in the resolution. In the light of experience so far and the possible scale of future migration, the proposed solution potentially leads to financial consequences that cannot be borne by the Member State concerned. Moreover, due to the high costs resulting from the need for solidarity contributions, the proposed solution globally, on a scale of all Member States, is less effective than the asylum arrangements that individual Member States can apply. However, when we see the need for solidarity, we must bear in mind the mistakes that the European Union makes when trying to eliminate the problem of Muslim migrants. It is our duty to point out bad rules that do not solve the issue of migrants, but only to shift responsibility for third country errors to other countries. The Circle of Free and Solidarni is in favour of the proposed resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u596	Thank you, Member. Since there are no members of the committee for questions, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u597	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my views on the report of the committee on a draft resolution on the recognition of a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person as incompatible with the principle of subsidiarity. As regards the establishment of criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person, I am surprised and surprised that this project does not seem to be in favour of the current rulers. In order to be clear, I am completely opposed to this solution, but I am very surprised that the mechanism used by PiS in Poland does not like PiS Members in the European Union. What is the difference between being pushed and being forced through sanctions in immigration processes from forcing and imposing penalties in in vitro cases, working on Sundays or working as partners or sending doctors to campuses, as the PiS ministers once wanted? Instead of open discussion and encouragement towards Member States, the Union wants to introduce comfortable solutions with shoes. We know this from the last PiS ideas in our national backyard. I hope that this change in the optics of the thinking of law and justice from the European plane will also shift to our national ground. High Izbo! The fact that PiS politicians have the EU institutions for nothing is undeniable. They insult the representatives of the Venice Commission, whom they invited themselves, now boycott their meetings. They resent the European Commission, the European Parliament. Soon you'll run out of institutions you can insult. And what's left? Conquer Europe with a fork in its hand. I urge you to remember both the politicians of the PiS and the management of foreign affairs and national defence departments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u598	We will proceed to the vote on the committee's resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Construction Contract or Services (Prints Nos 912 and 939). I ask Mr Waldemar Olejniczak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the bill on the works concession or service contract. I would like to point out that the bill under review is the result of the work of the subcommittee, which I had the honour of chairing. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development then gave a positive opinion and approved the draft law. On 5 September 2016, the Sejm adopted the above law virtually unanimously, i.e. by 431 votes in favour, 1 against, 0 abstentions. During the further legislative process of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on 6 October 2016, 42 amendments were introduced by the following formula: 12 drafting amendments, 11 clarification amendments, five amendments introducing similar solutions, four amendments relating to the standardisation of all notices, four amendments relating to the implementation of European Union law on EU directives and six major amendments, including the approval of the conclusion of a concession contract according to the so-called. In-house rules, that's a non-negotiable procedure. High Izbo! Allow me to present the skeleton and the objectives of the bill. Well, as the name says, it is a law on the award of works concessions or services. This is an important act because it concerns a very large stream of public money within the framework of a public-private partnership. This law is a specific legislative form allowing investment to be carried out without its own financial contribution. In the case of traditional public contracts, the contractor, after passing the tendering procedure, carries out the task and receives remuneration from the contracting authority. In this case, no longer the contractor, and the concessionaire carries out the task and does not receive remuneration directly from the Contracting Authority, but obtains the right to operate the building or provide the services covered by the concession. Thus, the concessionaire assumes the economic risk of the project and must ensure that it is in a position to make an adequate profit by compensating for the financial resources put in place for the investment and, if necessary, making a profit. Therefore, this law provides for simplified procedures for the selection of a concessionaire. The Contracting Authority will be able to arrange the procedure for the selection of the concessionaire, as it considers convenient, while maintaining the rules of conduct, i.e. the principles of fair competition, equal treatment of economic operators, proportionality and transparency. High Izbo! The basic change proposed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland is to allow the conclusion of the concession according to the so-called. In-house rules, i.e. the conclusion of a concession contract without a tendering procedure with the audited entity, e.g. a municipal company. So this is a very important change that gives a great deal of confidence and competence to the contracting authority vis-à-vis the concessionaire. I assume that, for various reasons, this form of investment in the future will be a very popular form, because it offers an opportunity to develop without having to invest its own funds. In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the amendments proposed by the Senate and to accept the proposed bill as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u600	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u601	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already presented, the proposed law on public procurement and works concessions in today's reality is a very important law that opens up the possibility of investment, shit by local authorities, without the need to invest own funds. We are aware that local governments will be limited for over-indebtedness and that this form of investment will be respected and implemented in many cases. In addition, in view of the further development of our local government, we take into account such opportunities and conditions for applying this law. We therefore call on Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to give a positive opinion on the amendments and the bill as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u602	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u603	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the report of the Committee on Economics and Development on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act on a Construction Contract or Service. As the rapporteur has put it here, the Senate has tabled 42 amendments, most of which are editorial and legislative, clarifying whether this is an analogy to the Public Procurement Law and at the same time improving the implementation of the concession directive. However, this package of rules on in-house rules is important here. First of all, there are two problems. The Civic Platform Club did not support these principles in the submission of Public Procurement Law. We were against and here we will also vote against - amendments 5, 15, 18, 32, 34 and 42. These principles, as widely introduced in that law and transferred to this law by analogy, as explained, worsen the competitiveness of the Polish market and, above all, beat Polish entrepreneurship. Even though today Prime Minister Morawiecki cared so much about the principles of improving entrepreneurship in Poland, especially private companies, he is mainly hitting private companies here and in fact prefers mainly self-government companies. Besides, Mr. Marshal, I'm addressing you. The legislators did not pay attention to this because these provisions were not included in the government proposal. We did not discuss this at all during the parliamentary work, because we mainly focused, due to the mess of the government's submission, on the legislative improvement of this draft law and we followed these rules in accordance with the principles of legislative technique, so that this law would be compatible with the Polish legal system and that the rules would be legal. However, in the Senate, i.e. already at the final stage of the legislative work, a whole package of legislation is included which is incompatible with good legislative practice, but also with the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. Here is a request to your marshal to see if it is possible to go beyond the scope of the government's submission, if it has not even been signalled during the work of the subcommittee, or the commission, or during the first reading or the second reading, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a possibility that's gonna exist. Perhaps for procedural reasons, we should not vote on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u604	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15 on the bill on works concession contracts or services. At first reading, I stressed that, in our consultation with the construction industry, the industry responded well to this process of proceding, argumenting and the bill after careful analysis. Many regional construction companies, those in powiats, those in regions, see here their opportunity, see in partnership local business, local construction companies, which know exactly local needs and opportunities, opportunities for development. As I emphasized in my first speech, large construction companies often dumping prices in the tendering process because they make money somewhere in Europe, somewhere on other construction sites. This is a real problem that local companies are signaling. They can suffocate, like... I don't want to name names, but these larger companies can suffocate companies that should grow well and be a flywheel downstairs, in counties, voivodships. But this is not the case. Therefore, as I stress, companies that should develop well... After all, as I said in my first speech at the first reading, the motorways we built - it turned out that on these motorways the companies collapsed - local government investments, which were related to EU funds, did not develop our construction companies either. So that here these industries see the possibility of development. The amendments that came from the Senate, which my previous speakers were talking about, are indeed of a corrective nature, detailing the definitions, show the points where we should, as if put more force into the process. These amendments are right, we will support them. I could talk about them, but my previous speakers have said a lot. I agree with the attitude and direction of the rapporteur, we agree with this way of thinking. We believe that we should adopt this law, we should support it. We as Kukiz,15, of course, are going in this direction, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u606	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Kobylinski. In writing. Then I ask Mr Ireneus to take the floor. [[Already, so soon? And the Member will gain unprepared.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Act on the Construction Contract or Services, Print Nos 612, 752 and 912. This law concerns the introduction into the Polish legal order of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concessions. Implementation into the Polish legal order of the Directive introduces into concession contracts necessary simplifications in relation to the provisions of the Public Procurement Law Directives, but also contains a significant part of the same as in the Public Procurement Law Law, which in particular involves recognising the key role of public procurement and concession contracts in implementing the Europe 2020 strategy known as a strategy for smart and sustainable economic growth. The Act corresponds to the main objective of the Responsible Development Strategy of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, which is to create the conditions for the growth of income of Polish residents, while increasing cohesion in the social, economic and territorial dimension, as well as with the specific objective of developing innovation and entrepreneurship. In this context, the concession agreement is a key instrument for the long-term structural development of the country, including the development of infrastructure and strategic services. The solutions provided for in the Proceded Law will certainly contribute to the growth of competitiveness of Polish economic operators both in the internal market and globally and will foster the diffusion of knowledge from the private sector to the public, helping to achieve greater efficiency and innovation with reduced business risk. On the other hand, I would like to express my appreciation for the work of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which has tabled more than 40 amendments, including two very important amendments that meet the requests of representatives of the Council of Social Dialogue. 1. the amendment concerns the definition in the description of the entity of the concession contract of employment requirements by the concessionaire or subcontractor under the employment contract of persons performing the activities indicated by the Contracting Authority for the performance of the concession contract. 2. The amendment aims to regulate procurement without in-house tendering in concessions, as well as in the Public Procurement Law. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this law together with the amendments made by the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u608	Thank you, sir. Two Members have signed up for the question. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. Question time - 1 minute. Here you go, Sylvester Khrushch first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm an architect. I've been running this company for 17 years. I have many major projects as a designer. These projects, which are permanent, which are strong at the beginning, i.e. in the tender process or in the process of obtaining a contract, are still praised. It is about those that were well prepared, where there was a good specification, where a given investor, a given local authority maintained quality well, made sure that the building in question would serve the community for many years. Now I have this question: Will private companies in a given district gather to build a building that will then give up a given community, rent it, not just guard the profits and calculate the building for a few years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aren't we going to build buildings of very low quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u610	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Waldemar Olejniczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u611	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to mention that in implementing this law in its entirety, I had the pleasure of running the subcommittee, and then I was a member of the committee. During these procedures, cooperation with both the opposition and all social groups, all committees, committees and representatives of all clubs was very good. I mentioned at the beginning that the introduction of in-house or exclusion was a decision only and exclusively to the honourable House, and I assume that the Senate, by introducing a law on the inclusion of in-house, [[♪ The bell ♪]] introduced a large amount of trust between the principal and the concessionaire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u612	Thank you. Mr Antoni Mężydło. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I confirm that we worked very hard on this bill and that the Legislative Office had the greatest impact, because the main work on the legislative amendment of this law rested on the Legislative Office, while no one from the government even cared that these in-house procedures would be introduced into the draft of this law, and as we follow up on all the amendments we are talking about here, the in-house ones, that is: we replace the dot with a comma and we attach a rule, or we attach two new paragraphs in a given provision, in a given article, so that this is a clear addition. Although perhaps the Social Dialogue Council has requested this, but at too late a legislative stage, Minister. Such things are unacceptable and legislators - both to the Sejm and to the Senate - have always pointed out to us that at this stage [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is a conflict with the Sejm's rules. I suspect that this legal obstacle could be an obstacle to this, so you can come out with a new initiative, if there is a majority...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u614	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u615	...because most people support it. Our club doesn't approve of these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u616	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Witold Słowik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u617	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It seems to me that due to the in-house theme there have been some misunderstandings, because in the original version adopted by the Sejm in-house was also allowed, because the lack of regulation on a similar basis to the regulation in the Public Procurement Act did not result in in-house inadmissibility. At the moment, when the works concession or service contract was introduced in the law, provisions similar to those in the Public Procurement Law were defined, and even a kind of limitation of in-house in relation to a situation where this was not regulated. As stated in this House, the changes were introduced on the initiative of a social factor in the form of a Social Dialogue Council and were adopted by all senators with a very strong understanding. Finally, the Senate adopted this resolution unanimously, believing that for the sake of legislation it is better when laws serving the same purpose will be regulated in the same way. At the Senate meeting, the statements of representatives of all the clubs in the Senate before the vote supported these changes as valid and supporting this law. So there was no change that would change the initial approach in a diametric way. Of course, there are two substantive changes, i.e. in-house and the contracting authority's obligation to employ employees who perform the contract. In the government's opinion, however, and the government supported these changes, these changes do not go so far as to talk about regulations changing the meaning of the concession law. The government is therefore in favour of these changes as much as possible. The discussion raised concerns about the quality of the works carried out on the basis of the Act on a works concession or service contract. The quality of these buildings will depend to a large extent on the specifications drawn up by the contracting authority. The concession process will take place on a competitive basis, transparently. At the moment, the Ministry of Development is also working on government policy on public-private partnerships and, as part of these activities, the Ministry of Development wants to prepare model agreements for the different types of concession contracts, so that the process of conducting a competitive dialogue is simplified and that more contracts are based on this formula, because in addition to the question of searching for funding for projects, the public-private partnership also aims to transfer the experience of a private partner in the implementation of facilities, mainly public infrastructure facilities. So as a representative of the government, I do not see the risk that the wider use of public-private partnerships using the law on works concession will reduce the quality of the infrastructure being built. Thank you. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u618	Mr Man was not mentioned by name. [[I wasn't mentioned, but the statement was referring to me.]] If you weren't an MP, then... Mr President, please take your seat. You weren't mentioned by name, I let you answer the questions. Please continue... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Witold Słowik: Mr. Marshal, I'm done. [[Applause]] You've finished the minister. Thank you very much. The rapporteur quits, right? In that case, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will vote in accordance with the recommendation of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u620	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Club Parliamentary Modern supports the Senate's amendments in print no. 912. At this point I would like to thank you for your substantive cooperation during the work of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u621	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 20 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Please, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz will be the first to speak. There isn't. Then Mr Czesław Sobierajski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u622	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This year, it's 38. the anniversary of the election of Cardinal Karol Wojtyla to the Capital of Peter. On 16 October 1978 the great pontificate of the Holy Father John Paul began II. We have received a special gift from God: the possibility of living in the same times that St. John Paul lived II, the gift of listening to his words and drawing from his teachings. We received a pope who was truly a man of faith, hope and love. Saint John Paul II occupies a special place in the history of Poland and Europe. His determination to claim the right of our homeland to freedom among the peoples of Europe, his practical defence of the rights of our nation made the Holy Father the most important of the fathers of independence of Poland. During the first pilgrimage of John Paul II to Poland in 1979, a process began, which resulted in the rise of the solidarity, the liberation of the nation from the reign of communism and the reconstruction of the unity of Europe. For us Poles, the pontificate of the Polish Pope is therefore of special importance. We are proud that this great man with extraordinary imagination, deep knowledge and man of great culture shaped the Polish tradition. In the teaching of the Holy Father John Paul II we find what is most important in our history. His attitude, his teachings are deeply embedded in the history of our nation. The Holy Father taught how much from the recognition of human dignity, from respect for human rights, from the ability of dialogue and forgiveness, from the building of social order in truth, freedom and justice, from respect for every man, from the defence of every human life from conception to natural death, from respect for family and natural human relationship, from the building of civilization of love as much as the opportunities of society and development and peace, both internal and international, depend on all of this. Saint John Paul II was a man of peace and hope. With unusual weather and love, but also extraordinary strength and certainty, he pointed to the whole world, every community, all people, every man, how to make life more human. He taught us that no community can survive without true solidarity, but also solidarity cannot exist without love. We remember his words: Solidarity means both, and since the burden is a burden borne together in the community. There can be no fight stronger than solidarity. We remember the wonderful moments we had during the unforgettable pilgrimages of the Holy Father John Paul II to Poland, with which, as the Pope repeated, my heart could never part. It was an expression of the immense love which the Holy Father bestowed on Poland and each of us. St. John Paul II, while still among us, said that he would like to be remembered as the pope of the family. He constantly emphasized that the family is the greatest treasure of the nation, because it is a school of social virtues that are about life and social progress. Saint John Paul II made his teaching center care for the family and the word and example of how important the traditional family in social and national life is, a family that is a real environment of life and love. How thrilling: Oh, how I desire, which I owe my life, faith and language to the Polish family, so that this family does not cease to be a strong God, that it overcomes everything that weakens it and breaks it, everything that does not allow it to be a true environment of life and love, speaking of today's resolution. It was, and it is, a signpost for us to follow. He spoke to us with the love of his father and with the power of the prophet. He led us across the Red Sea, didn't break the stone tablets when we put up new idols, but with God's strong words he woke our consciences. On 2 April 2005, with great pain we said goodbye to our beloved Pope, who went to the Father's House and, we believe, intercedes for us and blesses us from heaven. We would like to express our great gratitude and thanks to our beloved Holy Father for the great things he has done for Poland, the world and each of us. So let's ask. Holy Father John Paul II to ask from God the necessary graces for our homeland, each of us, to remain faithful to our over a thousand-year-old Christian heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u623	Thank you, sir. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u624	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the National Democratic Parliamentary Team was to hold a conference on the autonomy of Vilnius between 1988 and 1991. In the Seym we have many teams that really deal with many aspects of the lives of our compatriots. These are historical, thematic, infrastructure teams dedicated to many aspects of life. It is incomprehensible that the Sejm Bureau cancelled the reservation of the hall to us, the National Democratic Team, on the eve of this very conference at which we invited two historians who carried out studies on how this autonomy looked like it was going. It was only supposed to be a historical conference. This research was supported by the Senate and foundations from our country. That is why we are surprised at the appeal, the refusal to allow us to hold this conference. After all, the House of the Sejm is intended to serve the debate, to serve the exchange. He thinks that's what parliamentarianism is for. That is why I call on this building not to be gagged in the future, Members, to be able to communicate with us, because that is why we have been elected by the voters, so that we represent them in the Sejm, so that as part of the free debate, the exchange of thoughts we can build a program for the future, in order to stain out the elements of our history, which are still lying, which are not defined yet unexplored. That is why I cannot imagine any of the bands in the future here in our parliament having the opportunity to meet people who can pour more knowledge, their experience, their pragmatism, their programming thinking into us for the future. What else? This conference with the historians we invited took place outside the walls of the Sejm. The question is, did it have to happen that these historians had to walk around Warsaw, we had to rent a hall for this meeting, after all it is a puriazum. These things can't happen in our parliament, because that's why we fought for freedom, that's why we had the fall of a commune, that's why we have the conquerors of democracy to discuss here, to be able to exchange thoughts here. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I appeal to the Bureau, and I appeal to the secretariat that this should never happen again in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u625	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u626	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The country watching us online! I come to you in sorrow and regret, because in the last days, namely on Sunday 16 October 2016, he left for the eternal watch of the Father's house Captain Józef Bandzo ps. Hawk. He died a beautiful, dignified age because he was given 92 years of age. Whether my brief speech in the Polish Parliament is capable of expressing enough honor and appreciation for a soldier who is steadfast, a soldier of the 3rd and 5th Vilnius National Army Brigade, a sub-commandal Major. Zygmunt Szendzielarz "Scoundrels"? He was born a nomen omen on October 21, 1923, in Vilnius, and today he would celebrate his birthday. Until recently, we met him along with others living steadfastly in the Seym at the conference on 1 March in the Column Hall. He was taken up by the Prime Minister in the military chambers of his superiors, the President and the Minister of Defence. It is a good thing that the homeland for which he was constantly fighting was still able to show his gratitude and appreciation in life. Just as well that he was given to escort the identified remains of his commander to the place of eternal rest. We enjoyed his presence. It was a great splendor for us, and it made us aware of the steadfast and charismatic man we are dealing with. During World War II he participated in many combat actions in Vilnius, among others. He won New Troki, took part in the fight for Vilnius during Operation Sharp Gate. In 1945 he joined the 5th Vilnius National Army Brigade commanded by Major. Zygmunt Szendzielarz.Łupaszka while she was fighting on Białystok soil. In 1947, as one of the oldest interns of guerrillas, it is revealed during the so-called. Amnesty. As a result, he was imprisoned in Esbek catholics, accused, on false charges, sentenced to death penalty later converted into a long-term prison. He talked sparingly about his time in prison detention and being in the investigation without excessive heroism. He felt that it was a natural consequence of love, loyalty to his homeland, and the hope of independence. Today I come to ask you, Warsawers, for a large presence in the memorial ceremonies, which will begin at hours. 11.30 Holy Mass at St. Charles Boromeus on the Old Snowflakes. The urn is scheduled to be taken out at hours. 13 in Military Powązki to the Polish Underground State Headquarters. On behalf of the WiN General Command, I'm asking the Minister of Defense for a postmortem promotion for Capt. Józef Bandzo ps. A hawk to the rank of Major and a posthumous award. Goodbye, bright-eyed hawk. Sneak around in free celestial flights over your beloved Vilnius and our homeland. Hawk persistent and steadfast, you've won. You leave us in an unanswered question: Can I, you, any of us reach such a ceiling of service to the nation and land as you do? The hero's honor and glory! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u627	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Jack Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 2 years, EU sanctions have been in place against Russia due to its involvement in the conflict in Ukraine. On the one hand, these sanctions have proved ineffective, on the other hand, they cause retaliatory steps on the part of Russia and contribute to significant losses of the Polish economy, in particular Polish agriculture. For 2 years Polish agricultural products, Polish meat, apples and other products have not been allowed into Russia as a result of administrative decisions of the Russian sanitary authorities due to the alleged significant content of pesticides, antibiotics, hormones or other harmful substances. Meanwhile, annual imports of coal into Poland are increasing, reaching 8 million tons per year. More than half of the imported coal comes from Russia. Despite Russian difficulties for Polish exporters, Russian exports of coal to Poland are very good. I am not enthusiastic about continuing to maintain trade sanctions against Russia. In principle, I am in favour of free trade benefiting all its participants. However, I would like Poland to be a serious country fighting hard for its interests. I would like the Polish authorities, instead of begging in Brussels for a little productive irritation of our eastern neighbour, to be able to give themselves a hard and customs response to the hostile actions of the Russian side. If Polish meat is harmful to Russian consumers, why is Russian coal not yet harmful to the Polish environment? If Polish apples contain too many pesticides, why doesn't Russian coal contain too much sulphur? Why can't the Polish authorities decide on their own hard and concrete response to Russian sanctions? I hope that the answers to these questions will soon be answered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u629	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u630	Message statement on the 70th anniversary of Antony Zubryd's death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! October 24th is the 70th. The anniversary of the death of Anthony Zubrid ps. Attaboy - Petty Officer of the Polish Army, Major of the National Armed Forces, commander of the guerrilla unit of the National Armed Forces. Antoni Zubrid was born in Sanok, at the end of World War I, on September 4, 1918. In his hometown he graduated from Men's School No. King Władysław Jagiełła, and in 1936 he graduated from Petty Officers' School of Infantry for Junior No. 2 in Śrem. He was then platooned and assigned to 40. Lviv Children's Infantry Regiment. After the outbreak of World War II during the September campaign, he fought for Warsaw and was promoted to the rank of sergeant and awarded the Cross of Valiant. After the fights, he entered German captivity, but immediately after his release, he returned to Sanoka and began his conspiracy. After being assigned to work in Germany, escape from transport and several weeks of hiding, he returned to the city. After he was captured trying to cross the German-Soviet border in 1940, he cooperated with Soviet intelligence. During his diagnosis he met his future wife, Janina Prazyńska. In 1941, he was arrested by the Gestapo and sentenced to death. Janina, as Anthony's wife, got a life sentence. The Zubrid managed to escape when he was being led to an execution. He was then associated with the National Army. After the Red Army entered Sanocchini, he volunteered to serve in the Sanok UB. His obscure past and differences in the assessment of fitness led him to be under special surveillance. As a result, after exposing Zhubrid's double activity, in June 1945 it was decided to release him from the Ministry. But before that, he freed some of the arrested and went underground. Żubryd managed to subdue the surrounding Poak guerrilla groups quite quickly and create a more than 100-person group, which took the name of the Independent Operational Battalion of the National Armed Forces. The fame of the battalion and its commander quickly spread the whole country. He was successful in dealing with Stalin's camera. Battalion was mainly involved in ambushing UB officers, MO, municipal offices, railway stations, trains, shops. There have also been sabotage, robbery and requisition of food. He managed to lead to the death of Chief of Staff 8. Infantry Division Colonel. Theodora Rajewski, as well as the head of the Faculty of Politics and Education 8. Infantry Division, Captain. Abraham Preminger. In the liquidation of the SBO NSZ took part 4. Rzeszow Land CWB Brigade. Zhubryda's unit was eventually destroyed by military information personnel from 8. The Infantry Division, who brought their own people into the squad. When the situation became hopeless, Antoni and his wife planned to get to Austria. Unfortunately, his companion, Jerzy Vaulin, had been recruited by UB several months earlier as a secret associate. He killed Antony Zubryd with a shot to the back of the head. A moment later, he shot Janina, who was eight months pregnant. The remains of Anthony and Janina Zubrid were not found. During the Polish People's Republic Antoni Zubryd was called a bandit and thief. It was not until 28 June 1994 that the Provincial Court in Rzeszów rehabilitated Antoni Żubryd, recognizing him as a hero fighting for the independent existence of the Polish state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u631	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the European Senior Day. As a member of the Seym Committee on Senior Policy, I understand the concerns that seniors face every day, and I try to learn about their problems and needs. I am committed to supporting seniors and I strongly support all initiatives aimed at improving their quality of life, their ability to activate and lifelong learning. Poland needs knowledge, experience and wisdom of seniors, so any stimulation of older people's activities through science and culture, health promotion actions, access to modern information technologies and the popularisation of solidarity between generations is highly indicated and extremely necessary. October abounds with numerous opening ceremonies for the new academic year. As a parliamentarians, I also have the honour to take part in numerous inaugurations of the academic year in the universities of the third century. I am proud and satisfied to see that more and more ambitious senior listeners sit in the benches of the lecture halls. Coming out of the lonely four walls, satisfied with each other, courageously take on new challenges, realize dreams, make friends, because man is not a lonely island - he needs solidarity between generations, understanding, support and attention, internally enriching himself, drawing on the experiences and interesting personalities of other people. I am also extremely pleased with the activity of seniors in cultural life and meriting special recognition of the promotion of the cultural achievements of their own small homelands - which brings invaluable benefits especially to the young generation. In view of the 20th October European Senior Day, I wish all seniors the most heartfelt wishes of health, joy, openness to what is new, many successes, and unfailing enthusiasm to realize an ambitious way of life, but above all, constantly discovering the beauty of the senior age.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u632	On 16 October 2016, Józef Bandzo died. Hawk, a member of the Vilnius National Army in the years of war, soldier 3. The Vilnius AK Brigade, led by Gracian Frog, Szczerbca, a participant in the fight against Germany and Lithuanian troops in the service of the Third Reich, a participant in the Vilnius Uprising - Operation Ostra Gate. After the occupation of Vilnius by the Soviets, Józef Bandzo entered the border cordon and joined the 5th in September 1945. The Vilnius AK Brigade led by Major. Zygmunt Szendzielarz, a.k.a. Szygmunt Szendzielarz, a.k.a. Szygmunt Szendzielarz, a.k.a. Szygmunt In ranks five. The Vilnius AK Brigade fought against Soviet invaders in Bialystok, Podlasie and Pomerania. He came out in 1947. He remained under constant surveillance of UB and then SB. Arrested in 1960 under false charges, convicted, left prison in 1976. In free Poland he actively participated in meetings with young people, passed on his memories, was a promoter of the history and tradition of the cursed soldiers. He died of a severe illness. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u633	Declaration on respect for the rights and values forming the foundations of Polish families in connection with the work on the resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today the Sejm of the Republic of Poland took part in the plenary session in the work on the resolution on the establishment of Family Rights Day. Among these many roads the family is the first and for many reasons the most important. It is a universal road, remaining every time a special road, the only and unique one, just as every human being is unique. The family is the way he can't separate himself from. After all, normally every one of us in the family comes into the world, so one can say that the family owes itself to being human. And if there is no family in this coming into the world and entering the world of man, it is always a breach, and it is not extremely disturbing and painful, which then bears on the whole life - so St. John Paul II in his letter "Gratissimam sane" in 1994. Today, it is still important to stress that the family has always been and will be the highest value. For all of us, it is an area of love, security, posture and identity, a pillar of individual functioning and the proper shape of society. The family must be protected, especially now that it is threatened by various negative trends, what brings fashion to all liberalism. The family is also a kind of carrier of the future - it plays a key role - it creates a new life, but it also provides care for the elderly. It is therefore a perfect place to learn respect, care, responsibility and solidarity of generations. It is the first community we belong to. Unfortunately, we also all see negative demographic trends that affect the functioning of families - clearly highlighted in our voivodship. They also need to be accompanied by a painful problem for many families of economic emigration. In the face of these challenges, the family cannot be left to itself - it should be provided with the care of the state, and the role of the rulers is to support it. Now it's really the first time in this dimension that's happened because of the 500+ family program. It will certainly affect the resolution of many everyday problems, but it is also an expression of recognition for the role that the family plays in society, and an emphasis on how much the future of Poland depends on its proper functioning. During his speech in March 2001 during the 8th Gniezno Congress, President Lech Kaczyński said: If we have a mission in a united Europe - and we have, I believe, many - the mission to show the values of the family is particularly important. I think that Poland, and above all Poles, will find the strength to meet this mission. I wish you to do this so that our families are filled with love, mutual respect, that they build attitudes of empathy towards another man, that they be a safe harbor from which you can sail into the wide waters of the modern world, but to which you can always return, knowing that someone is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-10-20-sejm-28-2.u634	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 21 October 2016 at the latest. 9. I wish you all, ladies and gentlemen, all of your staff a good night. Good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 21]]
