ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u1	I open the tenth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the fifth meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixth and seventh Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next Senate meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the first point of the draft agenda be considered, even though the letters on the State Aid Act for child rearing have been provided at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Voice from the room: There is no objection.]] There isn't. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws and consider it as item one of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 10th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform the senators that it is possible to extend the sitting until 13 February this year, which is until Saturday. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 86 and the committee's report In print No 86 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation from the Act on amending the Law on Government Administrations and some other laws - Senate printing No 86. High Izbo, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Mr Maciej Małecki, on behalf of the Members of the Parliament's draft law, presented the justification. In his statement, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy, also presented his position. Dear Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the amendment of the Law on Government Administrations of November 2015 has created the department of "Energy" as a new department of government administration. As a result, the Minister of Energy was appointed and the Ministry of Energy was established. As a result of these changes, it was necessary to equip the Minister of Energy with the competences and powers which have so far been assigned to the Minister of Economy as a body serving energy matters. With this in mind, the proposed parliamentary bill was presented, which was discussed today at the committee meeting and which we were working on this morning. Three areas have been included in the amendments proposed in this Act. The first area is the transfer of competences which have so far been in the competence of the Minister responsible for the economy, and now, due to the revised law on departments, should belong to the Minister responsible for energy. This area of change includes an appropriate modification of the provisions of the laws which replace directly the competence of the Minister of Economy with the competence of the Minister of Energy. The second area is the revision of the provisions aimed at including in the consultation and agreement procedures a new Minister for Energy and thus ensuring an appropriate representation of the Energy Minister in certain energy collegiate bodies and recording the obligation to transmit energy documents and reports to that Minister. The third area is an area of some novelties of substance among the tasks and competences of the Minister responsible for Energy, and they stem from the concept of the essence and mission of the new Ministry of Energy. These changes include, among others, supervision of the President of the Higher Mining Authority, supervision of energy companies, including oil and mining companies. During the discussion in the committee, the Minister of Energy stressed that the Act regulates these matters and points out that the rational management of hydrocarbon deposits should also cover all those areas which until today have been assigned to the Ministry of Economy. The Minister of Energy added in addition to the justification that the Act had changed the departments of government administration, divided and generally changed the concept of functioning of the government, and this law, which we are talking about today, adapts the competences of individual departments. It also makes it possible, as the Minister said, to make payments of certain benefits, e.g. the monetary equivalent for the right to free coal to persons entitled from mining works undertakings; this is referred to in Article. 15. The Senate legislator drew attention Which I would like to inform the High House of the fact that art. It should not be included in the Act since, if the law amends the authority empowered to issue a regulation, it is not necessary to refer to it in the articles of the Act. However, the Director and the Minister of Energy justified the need to leave these articles in the Act, indicating that, in the case of disputes before a court which may affect the budget of the State or of the Treasury company, the absence of a clear indication could cause certain perturbations by judicial means. Therefore, the Director and the Minister are asking us to leave these articles. They clearly indicate the possibility of resolving such disputes. Senator Wojciech Piecha asked if the bill included coal companies. By the Ministry, it has been confirmed that the provisions of the Act include mining companies. Senator Professor Krystian Probier asked if due to the new solutions proposed in the Act proper supervision of fossils, deposits and how the arrangements will look like. with the Minister of the Environment. As I said, the Minister of Energy stressed that the law regulates these matters, and points out that the rational economy of hydrocarbons, hard coal and brown coal will take place in agreement with the Minister of the Environment. The same applies also to concession arrangements for mining minerals owned by the State Treasury. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski drew attention to the area of innovation. And here also the Ministry of Energy replied that the area of broadly understood innovation is very important. One of the vice ministers is dealing with these issues by introducing new solutions, including clean coal technologies. As far as innovation in energy is concerned, as the Minister said, we still have a lot of substantive work ahead of us. In the discussion, I also raised the issue of the specific provisions and regulations that are in the process of drafting and to analyse them in terms of their impact on the costs of coal mining. The Minister assured that he had appointed a team to review these rules and their impact on mining costs. High Izbo, Mr Marshal, the committee unanimously supported the bill and asks for it to be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There's no... Oh, there it is. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u4	Mr. Chairman... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[There you go, there you go.]] Mr President, I would like to ask: when was the last time the committee was discussing amending the Law on Departments? I mean, the last one...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u5	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u6	Mr. Senator, today we were discussing a bill, a parliamentary bill. [[And before that?]] I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, I don't remember the exact date at this point, I'd have to check my files. That was last year. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u7	Thank you. No more questions, I see. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, government representative, Minister of Energy. This is Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Mr. Marshal, your senate, the draftsman of the committee has pointed out all...]] Thank you, then... [[...of the bill, which is why I think it's all cleared up. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine. Minister, you're very welcome to the podium here, because there's a question. You're welcome. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u8	Minister, within a few weeks, we are discussing a second draft law amending the Law on Departments. It seems to me that there is already a classic example of the fact that both the launch of projects through the Sejm and the hurried procession end with the adoption of laws with huge gaps. My question is, why are we doing this? Why could those matters that were not questionable and obvious not be included in the previous amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u9	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! It is indeed prepared by the government by a departmental law, called even in such a form... it is called a law that cleans all defects. Except that there are quite large shifts in competences between the various ministers. It was created as a completely new Ministry of Energy, there was no such department at all, so the department had to be isolated, as well as individual... There wasn't, for example. Minister for Maritime Affairs. Thus, there are quite significant shifts in competences between departments and between ministries. And the previous law was essentially devoted to the possibility of creating individual ministries as offices. And this task was somehow accomplished. As for the Ministry of Energy, we could not wait until the end for the government's departmental law, because the budget for this year was adopted, which provided individual ministers with financial arrangements, i.e. specific measures. And we waited for a month, January... But these various changes and matters related to the departmental law are many and the main departmental law, the cleaning one, should appear at the turn of April and May. Given the fact that the Minister of Economy now has statutory competence in a very large number of cases where money has passed to the Minister of Energy, there has been an important need... I, the High Senate, ask, even though this is not entirely in line with the legislative process, that 2 articles, Article. 15 and Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council And that's why there's a request for quick implementation, implementation. This concerns financial decisions for which the money is with the Minister of Energy and the right to decide The Minister of Economy, although he has no money. This is precisely the case with the Law of 6 July 2007 on monetary equivalent for the right to free coal and Article. 26 grant law for certain entities. Here it is at stake to mobilise funds for water pumping cases in the case of mines, funds for the Company for Restructuring of Mines, as well as funds for the restructuring of sulphur areas, where sulphur mines are being liquidated. And for that... The point is that entrepreneurs, but also authorized citizens who deserve money, mining equivalent... The point is not to drag it out, because they should be paid by the end of February. Hence my request to pass this law, to which we have added a number of other simple competences related to the implementation of the Ministry of Energy. Hence my request to the High Senate for this bill to be passed. This is also related to the efficiency of decision-making in terms of the functioning of hard coal mining and all issues concerning the establishment of the Polish Mining Group. There are a number of difficult problems where we cannot wait for this to be resolved in April or May. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. No more questions. Thank you... Ah, Senator Joseph the Hare. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! By participating in various coal-mining conferences and listening to debates, including those conducted on the Senate grounds, I cannot get rid of one impression: that the problem of coal-mining is a social problem of Silesia rather than a financial problem related to the extraction of coal. What do I mean? In Lublin, coal can be mined 4 times cheaper than in Silesia. However, I have the impression that there is an unwritten embargo on coal mining at the lowest possible cost. Thank you. [[Thank you very much. It's already...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u13	This question, Mr Senator, goes far beyond the scope of the proposed amendment to the law, but please, if the Minister wants to answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u14	Yes. There you go. This law covers inter-ministerial and governmental competences. As far as the issue of hard coal mining is concerned, it is indeed the case that, due to emissions worldwide, coal consumption is decreasing and will decrease. But due to the dependence of the Polish economy on this energy carrier and the costs associated with the implementation of the rules that are adopted within the European Union, it cannot be that we, so to speak, have a sharp reduction in coal consumption, because our economy does not have sufficient resources for such activities. Compliance with the deadline set by the European Commission, i.e. 2050, for which the Polish government of the previous term of office initially agreed... I mean, the end of coal mining in 2050... sorry, it's not about mining. It is all about using coal in the economy and in private life. So it is not possible to leave coal completely in 2050 in our case. All analyses indicate that in this situation we would have GDP lower than today in 2050 and energy poverty would be widespread in Poland. Energy poverty is set at 10% a basket of goods dedicated to energy resources, i.e. heating, electricity and fuel, which we use in cars, for example. If we'd gone to 20 and 25 in costs and our costs would have increased significantly, including in households... If we exclude an additional 50% from the family income basket energy factors, which would mean that about PLN 100 billion would not be developed on the market in other economic areas, we would be threatened with serious economic stagnation. I have presented these issues during my recent discussions with Commissioner Cañete and I have pointed out that we will be asking for an extension of our time and a departure from the proposed formula, and that we will reduce emissions by using and building coal-fired power plants with a much lower emission index. Declarations that... Currently in Opole efficiency is increased from 30% to 47%. The possibility of discussion will arise if we significantly exceed 50% So we're going to get more energy out of less carbon. This is a question of the fact that the restructuring that is currently taking place will require large investments. Therefore, discussions related to the creation of the Polish Mining Group are taking place in such a way that there are no losses in mining. This is difficult at current coal prices, but only in this way will we find investors for mining. The problem of costs and cost comparisons for the mobilisation of new resources and the use of existing resources. In order to achieve the emission effect expected by the European Commission, we need to invest in the energy industry PLN 35.40 billion. This is about 12 thousand new MW built in the new formula. And we need to move towards investment that improves productivity in mining. A comprehensive reform of Silesian mining is needed here. As for the problem that we are dealing with in the case of Bogdanka... We also have a good mine called Budryk. Those two mines. Budryk is a mining company less than Bogdanka was the last new mines. Here's the thing. No mine will leave behind enough money to build a new mine to start a new mine. So in mining, where mining ends, there must be an investment involving external resources and land restructuring. The decommissioning of the mine must take place with budgetary resources. From the point of view of the operation of mining, this should happen at the same time. The more costs increase, the closer it gets to the mine's liquidation. For this reason, there must be restructuring in Silesia at the moment. The level of extraction that is expected will not be obtained in any other way at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Please ask questions related to this item. And that last question was absolutely different from the subject at hand. You're welcome. [[I wanted to give you an example here. I had a question, but I'll back off.]] Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the second agenda: the Law on State aid in raising children. The text of the Act is contained in print No 87 and the report of the Commission In print No 87 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Richard Majer, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which took place today. The Commission was discussing the state aid law passed on to the Senate in raising children. The government party at the committee meeting was represented by the Deputy Minister of the Family, Mr Bartosz Marczuk. Dear State, 3 months after the establishment of the House in this composition, we are faced with a draft law which has a groundbreaking significance for the Polish family, because it is to which this law is addressed. The aim of the proposed act is primarily to provide financial assistance to families raising children. As a result of this legal act, families raising children will be able to receive a new, unfamiliar education in the system of Polish law. Dear Sirs, it is mainly concern about the demographic situation of our country that led us to prepare the bill. Since 1989, the childhood of our families has been steadily falling, and this is, Dear State, dangerous. Demographics indicate it's high time we took this issue seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill, which was presented at the committee meeting... The meeting lasted a long time. We started proceding at 8:30 and it lasted until almost 12:30 so maybe I won't exactly refer to all the statements of the senators. Dear State, the law provides that in the current year the educational benefit for each second and subsequent child until the 18th year of age is to be implemented in the family. This benefit has a character... There's such a thing as supply technology in the social security system. This benefit is compulsory for all who fulfil the statutory conditions, namely, Dear State, they have at least a second child up to the age of eighteen. Since we are aware of the difficult situation of some of the families who raise one child, this law introduces a care technology solution, i.e. so-called social family with a income criterion of up to PLN 800 per person, and in the case of a family with a child with disabilities up to PLN 1 thousand 200, they can receive an allowance of PLN 500 per first child. Dear Members, the discussion at the committee meeting was dynamic, but not deprived of concern for the welfare of the Polish family. The statements of my esteemed fellow senators clearly proved that they were concerned about the fate of the Polish family, about its situation. Postulates, which at this meeting were marked by concern for the well-being of the Polish family. However, this has not always been consistent with the budgetary opportunities of our country. Dear Members, as a result of the work of our committee, we have adopted this bill without amendment by a large majority. There was no request from a minority. As committees, we recommend that the Senate adopt this act without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that the senator is the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Yes? [[Yes.]] Good, 'cause I don't think that's what the senator said or missed. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u18	Mr President, because of my other responsibilities, I unfortunately had to leave the session for a moment, so I would like to ask how the Minister present at the meeting referred to the Ombudsman's comments. [[Minister?]] Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u19	Good. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u20	Since I am not a member of the committee that you represent, the rapporteur, I do not know that, I would like to ask: is there an opinion of our senate legislator on this bill? Because I didn't find her on the shelf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u22	Senator rapporteur, you would like to do your duty honestly and complete your report on the presentation of the votes of non-governmental organisations, including trade unions, on this project and on the veto... probably to the article. 35... [[Art. 38.]] ...to art. 38, veto of the government's representative for information protection?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u23	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I did not take these votes into account only on time, knowing that there would probably be questions that I would like to answer at the moment, of course within the framework of the knowledge and notes that I drew up from the committee meeting. Indeed, the representative of the Ombudsman has submitted observations on the bill submitted to the High House. In the first words, the representative assessed very positively the very fact of proceding this legal act, which aims to improve the fate of Polish families and children, and further indicated that it would be appropriate to include all children, including the first child, in this legal act, by lowering the income criterion. Representatives of trade unions and trade unions also gave their opinions. They agreed that in the case of children with disabilities the criterion should be changed and that this criterion should be increased due to the cost of raising children. In view of the observations of the Ombudsman present in the Chamber, Minister Marczuk I think he'll be able to say it himself. He pointed out the budgetary possibilities, as well as the principle... of a concept that was adopted in this law. You have also appeared, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Senate legislature. It included some editorial remarks. There was also a comment on one of the definitions of the first part of the law, but the opinion was divided. The Senate legislator thought that this definition should not be included in the bill, while the representatives of the family ministry assessed that the definition was valid and should be there. It was a definition of a single parent. It was estimated that this should be included in this law, so that the local authorities would then have no doubts about granting this benefit. As regards the voices of NGOs, these were mainly the votes of representatives of trade unions, representatives of OPZZ and Solidarity. Here, too, there were reservations about the income criterion. Raising the income criterion would mean additional costs for the budget, which is unrealistic at the moment. The representative of the OPZZ also argued that the legislator was not particularly approachable to single parents. A lack of special approach to single parents results from the fact that such an approach would in turn discriminate between marriages as a whole. Here the legislator assumed that we treat everyone equally, whether they are single or raising children in marriage. The representative also called for an increase in the threshold or in general the abolition of the threshold for the first child. Such abolition would, however, result in an increase in expenditure of another 20 billion PLN, which the budget cannot afford at present. Among NGOs there was also the Polish County Association, which pointed out that in the first year the cost of operating the programme concerned was 2%. and fall to 1.5% in the following years. This seems quite understandable, because in the first year there will be an increased influx of healthcare providers, you will need to equip centres or city offices . Depending on who this is going to be done. With additional equipment, with additional computers, and after a year the system will be operational, then it will be possible to operate the program for 1.5%. A representative of the Chief Data Protection Officer also appeared at the committee meeting. The Chief Data Protection Officer, Dear State, has drawn attention to the article. 38, which directly concerns the Chief Inspector and the Personal Data Protection Act, and proposed to delete this article in its entirety, because it considered that this provision raises legal doubts. The answer received by the representatives of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy was thus treated... it was noted that since we are now before the two-year review of the entire legislation relating to the protection of personal data, and during this period all legal acts will have to be reviewed and analysed in the light of EU directives, it is also mentioned in our law, in Article. 38, would then be subject to such a procedure. And it was introduced because of work in the Council of Ministers, it was advocated by one of the ministries. I think I've exhausted the subject of this round of answers. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u25	Thank you, Senator. Senator Szymanski is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Joint Committees, not only was it addressed to the 500+ programme. It was of course the most important, but all of this turned into a discussion at all about the country's family policy, a discussion about needs, threats, what direction to go. The Minister has also made an important declaration on various other family policies. Because the fact that the 500+ programme is extremely important, incomparable with any other programme, does not negate other programs. I would like you to bring the Minister's response here in terms of family services, in terms of the Large Family Charter and other positive programmes for families. Because in my opinion, she was very important.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u27	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the joint committees discussed the state of family and family policy in Poland. It's even said that this family policy is a little bit like yeti, a Himalaya creature that everyone talks about, but no one's seen it. And in the course of the explanations it turned out, Dear One, that there are some premises, activities carried out in recent years, which, so to speak, can be combined as elements of family policy, among others. tax relief, Large Family Card, annual maternity leave or pre-school care. But these elements are, you can say, partial elements of pro-family policy. The law we are talking about today is to be an essential act for implementing this policy. Except, as Senator Szymański pointed out, Minister Marczuk confirmed at the joint committee meeting that the programme in question will not be the only regulation in terms of what you want to do in relation to the Polish family. The Large Family Card will continue to be developed, preschool care will continue to be developed, preschools will be required for three-year-olds from 2017 onwards, of course if parents want to send babies to kindergarten. Of course, we will have to wait a little longer for the effects of this family policy. Because family policy has such a feature that its effects do not appear immediately, immediately, only over the years. Nevertheless, what we are looking at today is, one can say, a very broad introduction to how the family ministry wants to treat family policy in Poland in the coming years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u29	Thank you. Senator Dobrzyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, give me a closer look at the ombudsman's remarks, because I'm surprised at his remarks in this case. And did the committee ask if the members of the committee asked what the press spokesperson did for... [[Press?]] ...child rights attorney, excuse me, for starving children in the days of P.O.P. and P.S.L.? After all, it was the Civic Platform that designated this Ombudsman's position. What programmes were presented by the Ombudsman? Did the committee talk about it? Has the Ombudsman expressed his views on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u31	There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u32	At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Ombudsman was present, who pointed out that 500+ education should cover all children, not just those who are second children up to the age of eighteen. In addition, the Ombudsman's representative pointed out that in his opinion the duration of the provision should exceed the 18th year of the child's life and apply to children until the end of school. It was like a question from the spokesperson, a suggestion... What you're talking about is very accurate. I, since I had already known the Ombudsman's position, took the liberty of asking him by letter what legislative and legislative initiatives he had taken to change the economic situation of children, but I am waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u33	Thank you. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u34	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, I have two questions. Has the committee been familiar with the number of children up to the age of 18 who will be covered by this programme? And what is the number of children that are not included in this program? That's the first question. The second concerns local governments. In more than twenty-something years of history, governments, no matter what colors they were, have always taken action in one direction, to give the local authorities maximum tasks and minimum resources. My question is whether the committee was familiar with the opinion of local corporations, especially municipalities, as regards the introduction of this deadline for preparation, etc.? What are the opinions of the local government in this regard? And was this the subject of your deliberations?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u35	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The number of children, as I recall, did not fall at the committee meeting, but we know the number of families that will be covered by this service. This is over 2 million 700 thousand, which is the number that has not been included in our country so far. It is of the nature, Dear State, the law-obligatory, i.e. whoever fulfils the conditions laid down in the Act, will acquire this benefit. As for the opinion of the local representatives, there was a moment when a representative of the Polish Towns Association expressed concerns about the value of these amounts of service, but at the committee meeting they were quoted by the senators, by the minister of opinion, which they as if they had accepted as senators in their districts, and these opinions were divided. Some local authorities thought that time was too short, insufficient to implement it, but there were also local authorities who thought that they could deal with the topic that the most important thing for money to reach the people. I, Dear Lords, during my meetings in the field, have spoken to social assistance centres, ladies and gentlemen and mayors, and I can say this: they, Dear Lords, hope in these measures, because this will also give rise to some economic recovery in their municipalities. Those families that have been co-financed forever will get money so that the kids can dress up, feed, renovate their apartments. So that opinions are divided here. However, a declaration was made by the Ministry of the Family Which I would like to stress At the time of adoption of this regulation, they will start training for local governments, so that no local government and any social assistance centre, because they will mainly implement this programme, will not be alone, will not be left to themselves, but will also be electronic, programmed and implemented on a daily basis. So I think that local governments, as in the case of family benefits, will be able to deal with this issue. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the mode that needs attention... The decision to award is not a very complicated act. This is not, Dear State, as in the social assistance system, where extensive evidence is required, to conduct environmental interview. Here, the Ministry has simplified to the limit the resources of documents that need to be submitted, and I do not think the local authorities can handle it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u37	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd just like to complete...]] Okay, but in a minute. I'm putting your senator on the list. Senator Augustine, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u38	Mr. Senator, I know you're attached to that term. And you're the one who used that phrase about yeti, but that wasn't what it looked like at the committee meeting... That was your opinion. I don't think I'm gonna be wrong if I say that, and that's what my question is. Mr Marczuk spoke with great appreciation at the committee meeting about the achievements in the family policy of the government of the previous term. But, of course, he pointed out that the effect that was achieved was far from satisfactory, and that this policy must be supplemented. And I think in the committee's report, that would probably be the dominant tone. Anyway, you started by saying that everyone was leaning down on these things with concern. Is it true that it was?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u39	That's how I tried to account for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u40	Senator Dobrzyński, right? [[Mr. Marshal, will I be able to ask your spokesperson questions?]] Of course. [[He's gonna be at the podium tonight, isn't he?]] Well, if he's invited and he's invited, then... [[Oh, good. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] You'll be able to ask the senator questions. [[I'm glad to be able to. Thank you.]] So what? Don't you have any questions for the rapporteur? [[No, I don't have one for the rapporteur.]] Good. Thank you. Senator Duda, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u41	Thank you very much. I still, Senator, rapporteur, à speaking yeti or, as anyone prefers, unicorn, which everyone knows about, but no one has seen them. But let's be honest, Minister Marczuk has admitted... I just want to ask you if you can confirm the data that I'm going to quote right now. That is, in 2007 we found 511 daycare centers, and we ended up at 2,000 700. We found less than 40% of the children's education, and we left 90%. We support every mother returning from the longest annual parental leave in Europe. Fathers have a 2-year parental leave. We support every mother who's had a baby. After the birth of the child, he receives 1 thousand PLN for 12 months. Class I, II and IV primary school and middle school children have free textbooks. I wish we could be honest. We know this is a trial, we know we're talking about difficult things. We know someone's starting something, someone's finishing something. I was very pleased with the Minister's statement, in which he said that a few things would continue. I'm thinking about the Big Family Charter here, of course... [[Voice from the room: Baby.]] ...about the program, "Much" etc., because these are the things that are worthwhile and need to be continued. So do you admit that some or many of the things started by the previous government will continue, as the Minister said, and that it is not just yeti?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u42	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u43	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, as detailed as you just quoted, was not given at the committee meeting. But if that's what the senator says, I take it, and I believe it. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u44	Thank you. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u45	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, what are the estimates of how many officials must be hired to handle this programme? And the second question that came up in the Seym. What happens if that money comes from a family that's in debt and her bank account's taken by a bailiff? What will be the situation then? Will this 500 zloty be recovered? Will the bailiff have to release them immediately? Or is he gonna do whatever the bailiffs do?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u46	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u47	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee has not conducted such detailed analyses. I think the Minister will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u48	Thank you. Senator Czarnobaj... [[But there was no answer to the question about the bailiffs.]] [[That wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting.]] Oh, bailiffs... [[In total I responded, and in this respect, and in this. There was no discussion about it.]] Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u49	Senator rapporteur, I will repeat the question of self-government once again. If I could ask for a short answer, yes or no... Were there any positions of the municipal corporation considered by you during the committee meeting? Did you have an opinion of local authorities on this programme? I don't mean on purpose, because it's a matter that... It is about technical issues, about the possibility of preparing municipalities for the implementation of this project in due course. That's one question. And second question. When I asked the Senator rapporteur about the number of children who... You said that 2 million 700,000 families would benefit from this program. And how many families won't benefit from this program?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u50	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! At the meeting of the committee, a representative of the Polish Towns Association appeared, who was the only representative of the local government party. [[Cities or counties?]] [[The farms.]] Cities or counties... Like I said, he was the only representative. He paid attention. only and only on the issue of the difference between 2% a 1.5%.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u52	Thank you. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u53	Mr Senator, all clubs at the end of last term voted in favour of changing the rules for paying family benefits. It was a bill signed with such a shortcut: a zloty for a zloty. Was the question raised as to why this principle was not applied in the case of those benefits which are linked to the income criterion?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u54	The question of the principle of gold for gold was raised, but because of budgetary constraints it cannot be implemented under this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u55	Thank you. Mr. Senator Pup.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u56	Dear Senator rapporteur, was there information at the committee meeting from the government that this bill is expected by many Polish families that this bill will solve many problems that are in families? Will this bill help families, e.g. Recover a sense of existential security? Will this bill allow to increase children's lives in many Polish families? Did she mention that? And one more thing: aren't the emotions, questions, concerns that are related to the entry into force of this law less than the expectations that Polish families have in relation to this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u57	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. In fact, several times during the committee meeting, the thread was raised that Polish families were waiting for this act. The government therefore wants this programme to be implemented since April. Hence proceding in this mode. Dear children, especially families with many children, are waiting for this, because this legal solution will give them some conditions for a decent life for the first time in years. Of course, we hope in this legal act for its demographic effects, but we will wait a little longer for them, because in demography, what you are aware of, nothing happens from day to day, year to year. A few years, several years, up to 20 years, you will have to wait for a change in the demographics that this bill can cause. The very important issue discussed at the committee's meeting is the sustainability of the regulation. The fact that she's starting to work... It must be time, a few years, for families with full awareness to decide for a second and another child, believing that these laws will continue to function. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u59	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u60	Senator rapporteur, you rightly pointed out that a number of amendments were tabled during the work, including important amendments from GIODO, as well as serious reservations from trade unions. How do you justify Senator Rooster's request, which you supported, and the members of the PiS supported this bill to be adopted without amendment? Does that mean you're calling for all senators to be excluded from this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u61	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that we voted in favour of this bill in the version that the government and the Sejm presented. Because what has been affected is the result of the work and amendments of the Sejm It follows that we believe that today this law is optimal in shape and that it is possible to implement it. And to keep the date of April, when the applications will affect, and the date of the first payments... Well, we estimate that in this shape this law can function successfully. Of course, the legislator wrote down in the legal act, which you can also read about there, monitoring processes, i.e. this legal act will be monitored all the time. The legislator, through the voivodships, will look at how the local authorities implement this act, what happens, how the condition of Polish families changes. The legislator has also retained the right to certain adjustments. So that in this arrangement, which is today, this legal act is in the optimal version. And we, Mr. Senator, are still convinced that we will convince you of this version and you will vote as we do. I mean, behind her.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u63	Senator Szymanski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask whether the committee meeting discussed and provided information on how gross national product looks like spending on the family in Poland and in other countries of our cultural circle, and whether solutions similar to this solution that we are debating today are in other countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u65	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, the proposed regulation will have an impact on the change in gross domestic product. Estimated It's an estimate of the Minister of Finance. That this regulation will increase GDP by about half a percentage point, i.e. from 3.2% up to 3.7%. The regulation is similar to that of other European countries. Of course, the amounts that we will spend, or 17 billion zlotys this year, are subject to budgetary possibilities. If there are changes in the budget, if the following years are conducive to increasing this pool of funds, it will certainly be increased, taking into account both the condition of Polish families and the potential for growth of Polish GDP.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u67	Thank you. Senator Dowhan. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, many self-governments criticize this law: that it is not well prepared that the problem is shed on their shoulders that they really do not have any guidelines from the ministry until today. The words of criticism in the media were addressed, among others. One of the best self-government officials in New Salt. What would you say to them? [[What's that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u70	I can only say what has been discussed by the joint committees. At the meeting of the joint committees it was reported that the Ministry was after a series of first meetings with local governments in the voivodship centers, i.e. the first series of meetings... As a rule, my dear fellow Members, these meetings are not attended by the mayors, but by the heads of social services centres. In the Śląskie voivodship also As far as I know, because I didn't participate in it. This meeting took place. Thus, the contact with local authorities is maintained directly. At the committee meeting, Minister Marczuk announced that these actions would be intensified when we passed the bill, so that the local authorities on 1 April would be prepared to pay these benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u71	Thank you. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u72	Mr Senator, during the discussion, did the question arise as to why this project is so different from the many publicly made promises that all children will be covered by 500+? I personally saw in the election campaign supporters of Law and Justice who wore posters with the inscription: 500 PLN per child. Was there an answer to what were the reasons for the withdrawal from these far-reaching plans?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u73	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't recall it being the subject of a committee hearing. Nevertheless, during the campaign 'Cause, like everyone else, we were campaigning. From all the messages we received information that we declared 500 PLN for the second and the next child, not for each one.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u75	Thank you. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u76	I'd like to ask you, on what basis are the calculations that we're going to give birth to 284,000 children within 10 years. [[Room voice: 287.]] And, even 287,000... [[Voice from the room: In addition.]] Plus, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u77	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u78	There was a moment during the committee meeting when Minister Marczuk was richly quoting the studies that led to these regulations. I think he or the minister will answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u79	Thank you. I don't see any more questions to be asked. [[Voice from the room: There they are.]] Are they willing? Who? Senator Rybicki, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask the rapporteur if there were questions at the committee meeting about the security of funding for the project. I know that he will be financed by the state budget, which is obvious, but the secret is that one of the sources of funding was to be the commercial network tax. We know that the government, after the protests of merchants and traders, withdraws partially from the bill. Has the issue of the security of funding of this law been raised during the work of the committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u81	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, that wasn't the topic that came up at the committee meeting. But I can't imagine there's any financial danger with such a serious and so wide-ranging project being carried out by the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u83	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you kindly.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Elizabeth Rafalska. I also welcome Deputy Minister Bartosz Marczuk. I also welcome the Child Rights Officer, Mr. Mark Michalak. Does the government representative, the Minister, wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! It is an honor for me to stand before the High Senate not only because I used to be a senator, but especially because the High Senate today will consider a truly groundbreaking law for Polish families, an extremely brave, bold law on family policy, which is expected by millions of Polish children and 2 million 700 000 Polish families. This law, is a solution to allow Poland to come out of the demographic crisis, so it is intended to improve the population situation, improve the fertility of Polish families And this is to be done by providing a second and every child's education. It is also a great investment in human capital. Moreover, there is also an element here which is connected with poverty reduction, in particular child and youth poverty, because in Poland we have the juvenalisation of poverty. Hence this component, the part related to the support of families in difficult material situations, which concerns families with income criterion of 800 PLN and 1 thousand 200 PLN. It's a great challenge for the government, and it's also a financial challenge. The government considered that the time had come to urgently, quickly and through such a high level of delivery, to counteract the further deepening of the population crisis, the demographic crisis, because fertility rates, despite extending maternity leave, despite the development of institutional forms of care for a small child, are not sufficient, are not satisfactory. Those years that have been overlooked, in which no proper action has been taken, we are behind us, we cannot change that anymore, but we can try to change the population situation from 1 April to the next years. There are forecasts of GUS, which say that within 11 years we will be dealing with an increase in the number of births of 278 thousand children. In Polish families one child is born mostly This is the case for 53% Polish families. We'd like these children to be born more. But very often Polish young families have concerns about the deterioration of their material situation in relation to the birth of a child, and the provision of education in such a dimension will certainly reduce these concerns. Although, of course, we are aware that the primary income for the family is and will certainly be income from work, the educational provision is to be absolutely supportive. It's an important bill, expected by Polish families. The task will be carried out by the local government. I think that later I will have the opportunity for the senators and senators to answer specific questions about whether it's local government, whether it's funding or other... I ask the High Senate, Mr. Marshal, to support this bill. As I say, more than 2 million 700 000 Polish families are waiting for this bill and the payment of family benefits 'Cause there was a question here. 3 million 700 000 children are to be covered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u85	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Sławomir Rybicki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u86	Thank you. Minister, the work of the previous term of office of the government, but also of the local government and the president, was the programme of the Large Family Charter, a program which covered several hundred Polish local governments and tens of thousands of Polish families and, I believe, not only supported families, but also facilitated decision-making on the next child. I would like to ask to what extent the government intends to continue this programme, possibly something to enrich it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u88	High Izbo, when adopting solutions of a pro-social nature Law and Justice, which was previously in opposition, all the pro-social regulations favored Polish families. It's just that every ruling crew continues to solve their predecessors to some extent. With no good solutions I would like to stress: with good solutions We're not going to back out and we're not going back out. Some of the solutions were adopted during the electoral campaign in a huge hurry, but for these tasks funding is also guaranteed and guaranteed, so both the Large Family Charter programme and pre-school care or care is continued.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u89	Thank you, Minister. Senator Duda's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u90	Dear Minister, at first I would like to express my appreciation that you wanted to come personally. This is important. Thank you very much, for example, because we have had many years of common concern for what has been entrusted to us. You, as Vice Minister, have been me in the years 2005-2007. And I think that the big achievement of our often difficult debates was that something ended, something continued and something started. If the Minister will allow it. Because the Minister has always been very active over the last eight years when it comes to asking different questions and mobilizing the previous team, so have I. I'd like to ask you a few questions, too. And I'll start by explaining the following. Well, a flagship called 500+ has arrived, hasn't it? Expected, very expected, the Minister said so. But don't you have the impression that already at the very entrance to the port some of the waiting ones are, it seems, very disappointed that the announcement of 500+ for each child has not been realized? That's the first question. But there's a certain issue with him, which I believe is crucial. Because we know for ourselves, Minister, how difficult it is to find the money you declared It's a respectful place. That is 17 billion PLN at the beginning, 23 billion PLN next year. But doesn't that mean that for the next few years, you're not going to have any new ideas, projects, because they're going to run out of money? I ask you this because it seems that the 500+ program, so to speak, will consume all other possible and necessary changes. Will you find resources for other purposes within the framework of family and social policies? Because the ideas in this area are undoubtedly there. And if you do, perhaps the Minister would like to share the information about what else you could possibly count on? That's all for starters, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u91	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u92	High Izbo! Our main goal was to improve the situation of Poland's population. Therefore, there was to be an impulse to increase the number of families. Granting the benefit to the first child would not only double the cost of the entire programme, but would also result in the result that the benefit is addressed to families who have decided on the second child. All research related to extreme poverty shows that in Poland the most vulnerable are families of many children. I'm not going to give the indicators here, but they're significantly higher than in families with one child. And the second group, which is exposed to extreme poverty, high, are families with a disabled child. So we have accepted from the very beginning, taking into account also the possibilities of the state budget, the principle that the second, third and subsequent children will receive 500 PLN each. In case of a more difficult situation, the criterion is 800 PLN and 1 thousand 200 PLN. 1 thousand 200 zloty is a really high, relatively high criterion. Please bear in mind that in connection with the demographic crisis we are falling into a kind of trap. The threshold of demographic ageing in Poland is over 15%. Such a normal age threshold is set at 7%, such are UN indicators. In a situation where young people are concerned that another child will make their material situation worse, fewer children are born. Progressive ageing of the population, including social impacts, with healthcare costs, while at the same time emigration of young people abroad Because very often people who are just the age at which they choose children emigrate. All of this causes us to be trapped in such a trap that, as a result, fewer children are born again, the process of deepening demographic ageing is progressing. Now, isn't there a fear that there's not enough money for other activities? We believe that, in view of the fact that families will receive such support, their material situation will certainly change so much that some of them will not be interested in social assistance, and that local governments, which also admit, for example. optional benefits will have fewer people who will report as a result of improving their situation. This year, these effects amount to PLN 17 billion 55 million, but yet all the expenses that have been spent, whether on institutional activities, i.e. daycare aid, or PLN 150 million, or on family benefits, have been absolutely secured. What I would like to point out in the context of the consultation process... The law has been amended to such an extent that the educational provision is not included in the income criterion in the case of social assistance, is not included in the income criterion in the case of family benefits and in the case of the Asylum Fund or for example. housing allowances, which means that those benefiting from this benefit do not lose their previously acquired rights. So it is an effort for the budget, but the choice of this government is that it thinks that this is just the moment at which this effort has to be made, that it is worth the effort for Polish families, that it simply needs to be done finally.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u93	Thank you. Mr. Senator Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Minister, the Law and Justice often rely on the principle of social justice. My question: what is social justice for the Minister, and can you define social justice? How will the Minister deal with such a situation that a single parent... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll talk about single mothers...]] We'll talk. ...a single mother who raises one child has income on a family member exceeding PLN 800, so she will not benefit from this bill, but a family of five in which the income on a family member is PLN 3,000, this supplement will benefit? Because the summa summarum in this family will increase the income on a family member by PLN 200. Do you think it's socially fair or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u95	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u96	Mr. Senator, for the government where I am, social justice is the foundation of all actions. The fact that Law and Justice today tells us that we have a problem of poverty in Poland is related to the fact that we do not pretend that there is no such problem in Poland, but we are trying to solve this problem. The fact that today we have proposed a profit criterion of PLN 800, Mr Senator, when the social criterion is PLN 514, in the case of family benefits PLN 674, and in the case of the Alimentation Fund PLN 725, it is best to show that our proposal is to resolve the problem of poverty in Polish families in a clear way. This is the highest criterion ever applied. The income between criterion 514 PLN is about families who are interested in social assistance and the criterion 800 PLN has more than 930 thousand families. So so many families, about the income situation weaker, but not so weak as to be social workers, will benefit from this witnessing and will receive so much solidarity support in raising their children. That's the answer to your question. And that's our view of social justice. [[Thank you...]] And certainly Poles receive such actions properly, which is best demonstrated by numerous statements of support, waiting for when this witness will finally be paid. I would not like to put forward these arguments, which I have already mentioned, but because of e.g. Hundreds of people went out every year on frozen income criteria Sometimes even half a million people entitled to benefit from family benefits That had a much, much lower income criterion than what we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u97	Thank you. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! By entering the first sentence of the Minister's honor, which is for you to be here, I would like to say this also before I ask questions: please do not answer us, asking questions, as declared opponents of this project. [[It'll come out in the vote.]] Hey, buddy. [[You've been on board for eight years.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, the question is asked by Senator Blackbay, and he'll be done in a minute. And that's just how we prolong it.]] That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that the Minister is talking about freezing the thresholds, and they were also frozen in 2005 and 2007, so let's leave this. I suggest we leave this policy behind because everyone's about to use it here. Minister, my question is as follows. 17 billion is a large project that improves the ratio of spending on broadly understood social care compared to GDP in Poland. In the case of such a large, as important project as the Minister puts it forward, have studies been carried out on not only increasing childhood, but also economic impact, on the state of finances, etc.? Except, of course, for saying it's a good influence. Were there any analytical studies that you, as a government, analysed and considered? That's the first question. Second question. The Minister said how many people would benefit from this. The rapporteur did not say how much he would not benefit, but do not be afraid to indicate this number and tell him how many people, how many children up to the age of 18 will not benefit from this project. I have one more question about 500 PLN. The Minister said that the financial situation of the families would improve. It's obvious. Do you understand? 'Cause that's how I understood the Minister's statement. That these 500 zlotys will go into income and then families will no longer be covered by social protection? [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska: No, no.]] No. As a result, the number of people covered by social protection will remain unchanged, as I understand it. This 500 PLN is intended to improve the family situation, but welfare remains because it does not count. Yes? I would like a comment on that, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u99	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u100	Mr. Senator, I'm not a scary person at all. Speaking of the honor of speaking here in the House, I was also talking about sympathy, for example because I was sitting there, so I am not afraid. [[But I didn't say that.]] 2 million 700 000 Polish families Well, there's a reason for bragging. 3 million 700 000 children will benefit, and 3 million 100 000 children will not benefit from this benefit because there are so many only children. There was a question of influence, and did we have any research... Oh, there was one more question about whether it's included. No. The provision of education in the case of social assistance is not included, family benefits and the Asylum Fund are not included, but this does not mean that the number of applicants will not decrease, because it is the decision of the family, and all decisions which are issued by the municipality are issued for a shorter period of time. Sometimes it is a special benefit, sometimes it is an optional benefit. If the family thinks they're getting 2,000 zlotys and so on. She doesn't feel right about it, she doesn't want to benefit from social services, her situation has improved, she's not forced to go to a social services centre. Probably also the local government will distribute its resources in a different way. What is the impact on the economy? Of course we've been studying it, although we probably haven't talked much about it. There are forecasts of an increase in economic growth according to various estimates of 0.5/0.7 GDP. We must bear in mind that, with the transfer of funds to local governments, their credit capacity will increase, their budgets will simply be greater, which in any case is beneficial. In our view, the emigration of young people, their travel abroad will also decrease, as there will be better social security for families. So we're going to have to reduce the emigration of people of working age. There will certainly be an increase in household consumption, i.e. the recovery in local markets, because this money will be spent somewhere. The growth in business revenues can translate into employment growth, wage growth. We are also talking about the income from VAT, for example. So the benefits of influencing money, which is intended for the programme, for the economic sphere, will certainly be felt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u101	Thank you, Minister. Senator Rocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that the purpose of the bill was financial aid to families, which is obvious, but you also said that the objectives of the law are also due to concern about the demographic situation. In the light of the demographic research I have learned, problems with depopulation affect not only Poland, but also many countries. Demographers say that structural changes such as industrialisation, urbanisation, the development of the services sector, but also the development of the social security system, are responsible. All these causes cause a process called the second demographic transition. In turn, the consequence of this second demographic transition is the decline in natural growth and the growing role of emigration as a component of population dynamics. I would like to hear your comment on this, because it sounds like this program of yours is going to lower fertility rates and cause migration to Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u103	Will it lower? There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u104	Mr. Senator, we've had such a situation so far that no matter what government action has taken, no matter what governments, nothing has happened to improve childhood. You could take the strategy that we're still doing nothing and waiting for something to change, so we're waiting for something to get worse. The experience of other countries shows that an increase in family spending, in particular an increase of 3% GDP, in all countries However, with the exception of Germany, which used additional instruments in their family policies, it translated into an improvement of childhood. I am not saying that this is the only factor that will work, and that this is enough to make families decide for a second or third child first. Indeed, there is a problem of this kind, that in Polish families women decide to have the first child. So the delayed decision about a second child is sometimes very late. This is also linked to the expectations of the labour market, the guarantee of childcare. This is also linked to the level of education. We take all these factors into account. Of course, we could say yes, we accept... Some think it won't work, some think it will. There's some research I've been talking about before... If I use the example of Germany, it will be impossible in the case of Poland, because absolutely in all studies it turns out that Polish women declare a much larger number of children, for which they would like to decide whether they want to have than the number of children they decide to have. It's basically the difference between us and the Germans. In German studies, the declared number of children does not differ from the number of children that Germany has, or material factor in Germany, which does not matter as much as in Poland. Hence, we have high hopes in the fact that the family may feel more secure because of the fact that long-term aid is proposed, and this aid is not at the level of PLN 100 or PLN 200, but one which covers almost 60% of the cost of the child's living. Because every year it's 6,000, for 18 years it's 108,000, and the cost of living and raising a child is 170 and 190 thousand, so the state's share is really significant. We believe that this will be an incentive. You just had to do something about this demographic crisis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u105	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u106	It's nice for me, too, but I don't have any nice questions for you, even if we consider that it's coming on March 8th. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Minister, I must strongly disagree with your economics, which is a perpetuum mobile. The lady says, "We're going to spend money, we're going to raise the global product, we're going to spend more money, and we're going to raise the global product again." Well, it's a perpetuum mobile. This hasn't been played anywhere yet. You have to give real money here, which means someone has to take it. Or maybe this guy wanted kids? How do you want to solve a quadrature like this? I'm moving on to another question. You're encouraging procreation. Okay. Very good. But you also say that in order for a child to be brought up today, it is necessary to have a minimum social amount of PLN 860. And you're handing out only 500 zlotys, which means anyone who suffers from poverty and decides to have a child of PiS... That means this poverty is going to get worse. Well, it's hard to count... That's the question for you, so fundamental, not anecdotal. As you know, you were a co-author of the project, or at least you voted for it. Unfortunately, with the help of my colleagues To introduce pro-family tax relief. It included, according to the same axiology, all families, including families from the second tax threshold. Research has shown that relief, which cost the state budget of PLN 10 billion... in other words: someone was taken this money. Effects? Childhood decline in this group. Another question. You said you were a spokesperson for social justice... The age of 18 was accepted as a state aid limit. I call it the citizens' border gently, because then the citizen gets the citizens' rights. And the baby... All the laws and the family code say that a child requires the help of his family until he's emancipated. We have accepted, and not just us, as the limit of the age of 24. 'Cause when are the biggest costs? When two children are in college, one in Warsaw, and the other in Elbląg... [[Ask me a question!]] [[Mr. Senator, question.]] The question is, why did you leave this group out? [[It's been three minutes. I, Mr. Marshal, will speak for four minutes, if you don't mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u107	Mr. Senator, you haven't spoken briefly for a minute... [[I've said enough so I don't ask any more questions.]] Mr. Senator, I'll put you on the next tour. Minister, I feel like you're gonna be here a little longer. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I can stand it.]] Do you want a chair in this regard? [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: No.]] It's okay. Good. There are still about 20 more inquirers. Then there will be speeches. The performance will also be about twenty, right? [[Voice from the room: Seventeen.]] Seventeen speeches. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u108	Mr. Senator, you say I'm a spokesperson for social solidarity. I do not use such a right, but I would like to be a spokesperson for social solidarity. Let me tell you, in the social part, our proposal is truly absolutely solidarity. As far as extreme poverty is concerned, in total in Poland it is 7.4%. In marriage to one child, the risk of extreme poverty is 2.7%. , with three children. 11,2% , with four children and more 26.9%. If we had a choice... Given always the limited possibilities of the state budget and the fact that families with one child They are doing much better against families, for example, with two children, where income is shared, in an absolutely intentional way we address these funds. In an absolutely deliberate, thoughtful way, we address them to those families who are most at risk of poverty. So to the allegation that this is aid for the selected part, you can answer: yes, for the selected, the most vulnerable. Part of our programme on incentives to choose a second child is part of family policy. Family policy, which is of a general nature, which causes that a large part of families really will not have to report on the income situation, their income situation will not be analysed. For 32 countries of the European Union, the European Economic Area and Switzerland, 21 apply universal availability without using an income test. Poland will use this type of instrument in family policy for the first time. As regards reliefs, I might remind you that since 2014 tax relief for families with one child has been suspended. That's it. [[Voice from the room: We know that, we know that. Over 18 years...)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Błaszczyk is asking a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u110	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to know how much money What it looks like in numbers, in sums From this huge pot will actually go to rural families, to the countryside. We know that rural children from many social programmes, helping families, have benefited in a limited way, that due to the specifics of rural income they have been excluded from the possibility of using many programmes. We also know that many farms are actually social farms. That is why I would like to know what contribution, what support from this programme will be allocated to rural children. Thank you. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska: Mr Senator, saying...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u111	Thank you very much. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Sorry I'm so picky.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Speaking of the fact that poverty is at stake for families of many children and families with disabled children, it should be noted that if we divided into cities and villages, it would turn out that of course the countryside and rural environments, rural families, are much more at risk of poverty than urban families. But keep in mind that from the second child each child, regardless of the situation, receives support. And the village will benefit greatly. More than PLN 11 billion on the scale of the annual funding of the programme is addressed to the Polish village. It's support and it's help. I often say that, but it's just a fact. That wasn't there before.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u113	Thank you. Senator Szymanski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about the Minister's comment on the various reactions of local authorities, which we have the opportunity to hear in the media in the context of the 500+ programme. Here's one part of the local government says: this is great, the 500+ programme will be implemented, that is, our local community will be richer, our inhabitants will solve many of their problems, and we will get the money to implement this program; it is not easy in the short term, but with our inhabitants in mind, we will implement it. And we have representatives of other self-governments, sometimes very small ones, who mainly focus on the problems of how to do this, who do not notice that this programme is also followed by measures for self-governments, in order to really implement this programme, which has so far not been a common situation, because it has often been so that there were no such measures. I would therefore like to ask you to comment on this issue, as well as how the State as Ministry will cooperate with local authorities in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u115	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I say that this program is good for Polish families, but this program is also very good for Polish local governments, and I say it with all responsibility. Firstly, local government budgets, as I said earlier, will be bigger. Secondly, local markets will be revived, for example, in educational services, in trade, in everything related to child care. Third, local authorities will also receive a commission corresponding to the actual costs they will bear in carrying out this task. This is a commission of 2% from handling a given task in 2016. Self-governments will have a monthly vacathio legis to prepare themselves, as well as legal instruments that will allow them to behave flexibly, because it is e.g. an extension of the period for the decision. Why such divergent voices? Official positions or requests from local authorities for support, for assistance, are not affected by the Ministry. There was the position of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, which really spoke of a longer vacathio legis, but many local governments say that they are almost ready to handle this sentence today. I think that we will have a situation that is also a test of the efficiency of functioning and preparation of local governments to launch a program that serves a large part of families. So at the start of this programme, the number of families entitled to apply in some local governments will be very large. The quality of the services of the families that will come forward will depend on how the information campaign will be conducted. If it is so that one local government will manage perfectly, and the other, in the neighborhood, worse, then not me, but the inhabitants of these towns will learn how the local authorities deal with this task. We as the Ministry are involved in the training process, as soon as the next week, the services of the Ministry, the Department of Computer Science and the Department of Family Policy, are going on training to all regions. Many hours of training will be conducted with the services of the voivodships, with the staff who will serve this task. There's a manual, a manual. We're waiting for the final form of the bill. If we had printed a textbook like this before the Senate adopted the bill, it would, I think, be in violation of the entire legislative process. You can't run a textbook like this until the House examines this bill. Therefore, we are waiting for this final shape, which will be finalized, I hope, today in the Senate, but it depends on the High House. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u117	Thank you very much. Senator Chudowska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have two questions. The reduction in the poverty rate of Polish families, Polish children will certainly result in Health improvement. At the beginning, at the entrance is such a balance of entry so that it can be compared, after a few years, whether the health of Polish children improved thanks to this money? I think families at all, but now I'm talking about children. Will less antibiotics need to be used for these children... Maybe it won't be so much less in financial resources, because drug prices are rising, life is also more expensive... But will health improve? I'm sure it'll get better. What kind of ministry is taking action today to determine this starting point? And second question. It is very good that we will have such information, instruction for those involved in the allocation of these funds. Is the government also preparing a social campaign in public media about this programme? More than 40% did not go to the elections, which means that they were not interested in the programmes of any party, either the PO or the Law and Justice. Many people may not know that such a program is and that it is a programme of law and justice. He'll be dealt... This money will be granted by local governments of various options and people can... This was the case under the rule of AWS, the computers separated the government, and the SLD Members delivered them in the villages and there they were the main benefactors. Are we preparing such a social campaign?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u119	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u120	The Senator, the data of the CSO, which tells us about the so-called juvenalization of poverty, the poverty of children and young people in Poland, indicates what Polish families cannot afford. And so, among other things. the lack of guaranteed specialist health care, which we are often forced to use outside public health care... the lack of resources does not allow the use of dental care at least. For us, the most important thing is that this improvement in health actually takes place. It can happen, for example, by improving the quality of nutrition, which will affect the health of children and young people. It's very difficult to measure the financial impact. Where there is an element of preventive action, the financial consequences are difficult to convert. We have an assessment of the regulation of this law created by reviewing the benefits that function, but we will also take this voice into account and with the Minister of Health we will think about it. With regard to local authorities, about improving the situation of the family, about identifying who introduced this benefit and what is the information action, I will say: full information action, such responsible and honest, can be carried out after the bill is adopted. Everything that was before was the bearers of this bill, the voice in the discussion. Only the President's signature, and before that, the Senate's adoption will be the closure of the legislative work. All institutions, including, of course, the government, which has made the greatest effort to prepare the bill, carry out the work, but also the financial effort... The government will run this information campaign, run it all the time, including through the voivodeship services, which are already waiting to be able to start their activities. Such an information campaign will certainly also be carried out by the local government, which must inform about the powers, where proposals are made, how quickly they will be dealt with, etc. I think it will also be run by parliamentarians. Who knows, maybe not just the Law and Justice... After all, it is a program for Polish families, for all Polish families. Now would be the time for such a reliable informational action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am a member of the local government committee, I attended a committee meeting today and I tried to ask Minister Marczuk about it, and I am talking about tasks commissioned from the government administration by the municipalities. Mostly I'm talking about serving this task by the municipality. If there was anything more you could say about it... Because it's like this: it's gonna be an application. The relevant data must be included in this application. And then... And that's the question I asked at the committee meeting. Then the applicant will have to submit some certificates, some statements as to whether the municipality will have to obtain data from individual bodies, i.e. From the IRS, from the U.S.S., from different registration bodies? Will she have to choose, prepare, analyze and prepare the decision by drawing up this proposal for herself? At the committee meeting, I found out that one official of the office was gonna get one. It is expected that this is how the tests came out. No more than around 420 decisions will have to be made. Therefore, the question is whether the data that remains to be collected... And it is known that an IT system is needed, otherwise it will not be collected; it is about obtaining data from many public registers, including, for example, from the PESEL register, which I'm sure will be the easiest. All this must be collected, analysed and prepared for the decision. And once the decision is made, of course, it is also about controlling the decision making. The operation is amazing because we are talking about 17 billion PLN, and therefore these measures are also subject to some control. Who will carry out these checks? And one last thing, which is the 2% issue. Is this 2%? which will receive local governments or marshals, these 2% which is now saved, and 1.5% Next year... Will this money be reduced by the pot of 17 million PLN and the 2% Will the local governments get it at first or later, or will the money be distributed somehow? How will the funds of these 2% go to the municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u123	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u124	In the first year, local governments will receive 2% because then it's like the biggest concentration of service; it's about running the program, the purchase of equipment may be different for some local governments. It's either for employment. We do not refer to the size of employment, it depends on the decision of the local government. The government will get a commission, commission, and this task will be done in our cooperation, with training and more. The following year, 1.5% ...The farms will get 1% because they support the task of foster care. First Decision This is what I want to draw attention to, because it is important, in my opinion, that it relieves self-government. It is issued whether it will be issued for an allowance period after the adoption of the Act from 1 April 2016 to 30 September 2017, i.e. in the remaining months only changes and benefits will be granted to children who will be born, it will no longer be as gigantic service as at the time of launch. As far as the IT system is concerned, these solutions are already being applied today, which are in force in the social assistance system and in the family benefit system, so the municipalities work in the same system. As far as data collection is concerned, the statement and income will be checked only for those families who seek to provide education related to the income criterion. And there the data will be obtained from the tax offices by the employees serving this task. The person lodges an application, unless he is not a payer of income tax on natural persons, if he or she is a flat-rate farmer, then he or she submits a certificate or declaration. This is all in accordance with the rules that have been in force so far. There's no new solution here. About the waste... That's what the senator asked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u125	Perhaps the Minister could say something more about the authorities that need to retrieve this data. I understand that if someone's retired or something. If you are disabled and you have to collect data from the Social Security Office, then the employee at the municipal office who will carry out this task, who will prepare the decision, will have to obtain the data from many registers himself. Well, not always of many, it depends on what application will be made, but it doesn't just apply to the tax office, because it doesn't apply to other registers. This is the first case. The second question was also... It's about the resources of the 2%. What about the 2%? ? How? Are they gonna go to the commune? There's the controls. Who's gonna control it? These are expenses, however they may be, government, so who's gonna make the checks? Well, I know who's gonna do it, but what I'm gonna do is how much control it's gonna be on the scale of the money that's being transferred. We also need a staff of people to carry out this control. So that then it's not like the office... that someone will sign off on the decision of the local government... Because such a person is responsible for this decision, the person who will be authorized Whether it's a ghetto or another person authorized to sign that decision. She is responsible for this decision. The audit authority will, of course, check whether such a decision has been properly issued. She'll be properly spent, if there's time to collect data, analyze all of this... And the question is, is this time enough? 'Cause really, the pace... We're gonna have to make all the decisions in three months. So there's a question about this 2%. and controls.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u126	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u127	As regards the allocation of funds, both the means for service and the means for the transfer, with regard to the payment of educational benefits, are already prepared. And, as I said, as soon as the bill is adopted, they will be sent to the communal authorities, county authorities through services, voivodships... So they'll know... Within 7 days of the signing, not since the publication of the Act, support funds may be mobilised. Not the funds for payment of the benefit, because these will be from 1 April only those that are connected with the preparation of the logistics and organization of local authorities for this task. Where there are concerns about whether local governments will have enough time But, as I'm saying, I think it's the ones who have a lot of requests from the service... There's a flexible instrument that allows a decision to be made within three months. So that there is no monthly deadline for the decision, only a three-month deadline which will also allow the payment of the benefit with compensation from the moment the application is submitted. So for self-government, the time to make a decision is April, May and June. But of course, when it is absolutely necessary. Such a right shall also be granted by the person who lodges the application and shall receive compensation for June, May and April by the end of June. But, I stress, since July and the local government, and the applicants already have a normal, monthly deadline. I think that an extended period will also allow for the collection of these data concerning tax offices, civil status offices or the Social Insurance Institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u129	The Minister, however, would like the programme to function well and produce results, be fairer and not excessive risks. [[He can't be more fair.]] You didn't reassure me, Minister Marczuk, when I asked about the possible inactivation of women in the labour market. Saying that if there is 500 PLN, it will be possible to hire a babysitter and go to work, does not correspond to the results of research which are known and according to which a large number of women in case of improvement of the material situation intend to stay at home, does not intend to work. That is why I ask the Minister once again: what is your assessment of the risk of professional inactivation of women who will benefit... in families who will receive this benefit, especially in families with more children? Second thing. When we ask about the principle of gold for gold, the answer is that there is no money for it. Just like there's no money to cover everyone's agenda. But we remember well, and the minister probably remembers, as long as it was supposed to increase the revenue from VAT. As I recall, it was said here that it would be between 40 and 80 billion PLN. It was said how much money we would have saved if we had refrained from reducing the retirement age and how much money would have come if we had not immediately increased the tax-free amount. If this investment, as you say, investment in children, in our future, is top priority, then I think we can afford it. And I'm taking your declarations into account here. To boldly embrace this program all children. And especially to introduce, for example, the principle of gold for gold, Mr. Marshal, I would ask for a few more seconds. And also resign, Minister, from this provision in the article. 5, which, in my opinion, is harmful to children with disabilities to a light degree during this period between 16 and 18 years of age, because simply those families who raise such children would be harmed because they would fall to a lower income threshold. What's your opinion, is there any way to fix this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u130	You're welcome... But, ladies and gentlemen, speaking time will be later, now we are asking questions that last no longer than a minute. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u131	I will answer the question about the deactivation of women not only as a minister but also as a woman. Senator, why don't you ask about deactivating men? Why aren't you asking about deactivating men? They can leave a job, too. [[I'll answer that, Minister, because...]] But now, Mr. Senator... [[The question is, I'll answer it.]] But, Senator, let me answer you because I listened patiently. Here's the answer: whenever ideas for family policy or elements of family policy appear in Poland, there is an increase in the volume of how women deactivate. I want to tell you that Polish women are resourceful, entrepreneurial, well-educated, caring for their families and thinking that 500 PLN will improve the material situation of their children and their families. The research we're talking about is contradictory because some people say, "That's it," and the other say, "That's it." There are also studies, including our studies, which said that helping the family can activate. And what Minister Marczuk was talking about, I have heard many times. Those women who have multiple families say, "I can pay for the nursery, I can pay for the kindergarten, I can get someone to help me, I can pay for the babysitter." If, High Izbo, some of the women who don't make much money Well, somebody says, let's make this minimum wage. And at the same time they have three, four, and sometimes more children, quit their jobs, it's just gonna quit their jobs, but it won't deactivate, because such a woman in the house isn't deactivated, she's at home earning money. If she leaves her job and takes care of her family for three or four years, I assure you. Her family, her children and she will really benefit from it. Because there's a struggle between poorly paid work and providing care for one child who's in school, the other who's in kindergarten, the third who's still in another place, and guaranteeing them care, such good, sufficient care, it's really not possible sometimes, and then it's not a choice of women, it's a necessity. Today we say that a woman herself will be able to decide whether she will work, whether she will be able to reconcile these responsibilities, because she has small children, sometimes two or three, and still has sick leave and still has problems guaranteeing care and dilemmas at work. Will she want to work? The most common thing is that women have to work because families are unable to keep up with one husband's salary. Please remember that the work is the primary source of the Polish family's livelihood, that the work provides security for the future, that you have a social security contribution paid, you have a sick leave as you are on sick leave, and that our high income threshold From the second child there is no threshold It does not deactivate. So these are absolutely such arguments that I can argue with and disagree with.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u132	Senator Elephant. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, my question concerns the expenses of the program. When will they be activated and at what height? Is it settled, or is it a percentage of the 340 million planned this year? Can local governments make any expenses in advance to prepare for the implementation of the programme? Are you planning to distribute a catalogue of expenditure by the Ministry for the operation of the programme, which may be incurred by local authorities? I hear such questions very often at meetings, and that's why I ask them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u134	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u135	I already told you about the commission, Mr. Senator, she's gonna be 2%. Will and when will these funds be activated? They will be launched a week after publication of the bill. The first means of service are perhaps seventy-seven million per municipality. Self-governments will be informed by the voivodship services. These first funds are intended for technical organisation, so to speak, for the launch of the whole process and subsequent funds will be transferred to local governments in monthly instalments. I'll tell you what this commission means. I have heard such voices and this was the position of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government that since other benefits was 3% commission, and we're only offering 2%. 3% is in the case of family benefits, which are much smaller. Well, 3% of 100 zł is definitely less than 2% 500 PLN. On 1 January, according to the decision of the previous government, local governments were transferred the payment of parental benefits of PLN 1 thousand, the cost of which was calculated by the Ministry of Finance at PLN 30, corresponding to 0,5% commissions. So that compared to this commission 2% for carrying out the task from the first decision, 1 April to 30 September 2017 is a really good proposition for local governments, also in the sense of decreasing... In those expenses that the government receives... Like we said, the government gets a commission and gets funds for it. So that as soon as the law is published, local authorities will be informed of the amount of funds and these funds will be mobilised as soon as possible. We will try to run them as soon as possible in agreement with the finance minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'll try to fit four short questions in a minute. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska: That much?]] First question. Modern Kukiz, 15 and even PSL suggested that it would be better to increase the tax credit for children rather than to pay 500 PLN per child. There was also an idea to introduce a income criterion, which is the upper limit of income per head in the family, from which the limit would not be 500 PLN per child. Wouldn't that be a better way to help your family? That's the first question. Second question. We all know that the Nysa authorities came up with an initiative to pay a child's education voucher of PLN 500. And the question is, should we not support local governments and encourage them to do just that instead of building a nationwide programme that is so critical, especially on the part of the political opposition. Third question. Supporting the program is an additional task for local governments, but its funding has been written down in the law, and local governments receive a huge amount of money for the implementation of the program. That's the kind of funding the local government hasn't had yet. Wouldn't it be cheaper to recommend this task e.g. ZUS? And the fourth question. One of the allegations against the law was unfair treatment of single mothers who would not meet the income criterion, e.g. They will exceed this criterion by 1 PLN. The question has already been raised: shouldn't the golden rule be introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u138	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u139	Tax relief. Mr. Senator, the reliefs are here right now. Please note that the relief would not apply to farmers and would not cover everyone, and this scheme is addressed to all families. This parenting service for the family is intended to help reduce the cost of raising children. In our view, this is a better address for this benefit. It's a parenting gift and self-government gift. The educational voucher introduced e.g. The governments of Nysa and Szczecin. I think this is a very good action, but here are actions that will be doubled. On the one hand, local governments should pursue family policies and establish a system of incentives aimed at the local environment... In Nysa, the fertility rate is 1,06, Opolskie has a very low rate at all, so the local government, without waiting to launch a government program, decided to apply the incentive system itself and prepared a very specific family product. I am in favour of such actions, I am in favour of such actions, but they should not be replaced. We think globally, on a national scale. When it comes to whether the U.S.S. could lead this, I'm going to say that this question is being asked more and more, and we were asking ourselves the same question. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying that the U.S.S. doesn't cover everyone. We still have KRUS, uniforms, unemployed people who are outside the ZUS system. The U.S.S. has 400 or more than 400 troops. Meanwhile, there is a local government, there are almost 2.5 thousand municipalities and these municipalities have numerous units that can be used, for example. in the collection of applications. The government has already carried out family benefits and is engaged in social assistance tasks. Surely these services will also be used to serve this task. So the ZUS does not stand this competition at all because of the number of branches and the access of families to ZUS troops. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So? These families would go to a branch in the county city... [[Quiet, please.]] ...or the voivodship departments? And last question, gold for the gold. Please bear in mind only one thing, that the principle of gold for gold would only have to function in relation to the first criterion. I remind you of that, because sometimes when you talk about this bill, I feel that way. We forget that from the second child we pay for each child without any income criterion. The introduction of the principle of zloty for zloty to the level of 20 zlotys would result in the criterion being 1380 zlotys. It would increase the cost, yes, because we subtract... If the income was PLN 850, the paid benefit would amount to PLN 450. If the criterion was exceeded by PLN 100, the benefit would be PLN 400, then PLN 300, etc., up to PLN 20. We have a program. 500+, or 500 PLN of benefits plus other benefits that are already in force, plus other incentives or proposals for family policy. As I say, gold for gold, this is the cost of PLN 2 to 3 billion and the benefit becomes less than PLN 500, and if it were a benefit of PLN 100, it would not, in my opinion, encourage me to choose a second child.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Golba, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u141	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Turn on the mike, please.]] Now. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I want to thank you because I've had a lot of meetings lately. ♪ I'm not hiding ♪ With the inhabitants of Podkarpacie, so please accept your appreciation and thanks for this 500+ bill, because I've really seen the great joy of many families, they can't wait to come into force. For them, such help is very important and necessary, because many large families live very modestly, often very poorly, so they are waiting for this bill. But, Minister, I was also asked such questions... that there were families in which income on a family member exceeds PLN 4, 5 or 7 thousand. So shouldn't we introduce certain degrees, point to this amount? I know this program is called 500+, the Minister has already expressed it, but I would like to ask if there should be a solution so that every child receives it. Because there are allegations that it's not for every child that the first child, when parents have higher incomes, doesn't get it. And now the question that came up at this meeting: shouldn't we introduce Where there is a high income on a family member, more than PLN 4, 5, 7 thousand, the amount of PLN 200 for the first, PLN 350 for the second and PLN 500 for the third and every subsequent child? That's what I asked. I know that on the other hand the words would be: but you said 500 PLN, and there is 500 PLN. And my question is, did the department you're running continue to work on this subject? Shouldn't we have introduced or possibly tried to introduce such a solution during the various public consultations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u142	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u143	I'll refer to the consultation first. Indeed, the project was widely consulted. The public consultation took place at the level of each region with representatives of the management of the Ministry, i.e. vice-ministers and mine. These were large meetings with people, representatives of local governments, OPS, NGOs and associations that deal with this issue. And there were voices that the senator was talking about. We said that we were basically building a family policy, a policy that would be characterised by universalism, which would address its proposals to all families and which would not just be a social policy. We continue to stress that there should be no sign of equality between social policy and family policy. There was also such a belief that perhaps the introduction of the upper income threshold would allow the payment of the benefit to the first child to be financed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, assuming that the income criterion would be PLN 5,000, that would be such a higher criterion, precisely one that would deactivate... We can also say that, once the upper threshold has been introduced, there could be a fear that exceeding this threshold would result in a loss of benefit, and therefore there would be no incentive to make more money. With an income criterion of PLN 5,000, only 11,000 families would lose the right to a family benefit. So that there is no idea that Poles earn so much that the introduction of some threshold will result in big savings, I will say that the savings effect here would be PLN 5 million. The savings alone would amount to PLN 81 million, but the increase in the operation of the programme would amount to PLN 76 million. If we were to say so, they cut off 11,000 families, then in the case of 2 million 700 000 families, we would have to have calculated income figures. All families would have to fold... they would have to be checked for income. If we introduced a income criterion of PLN 3 000, the right to family benefits would lose 51 000 families. As far as the first child is concerned, there are 3 million 100,000 children. So in the financial sense, there's nothing to talk about at all. The savings effect with a criterion of PLN 3 000 resulting from the difference in the operation of the programme would be PLN 267 million. What is very important here, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the case of the second child of the family they will not have to talk about their economic situation. There is no belief that someone will test someone's income, that taking extra work, extra hours, extra work will result in a loss of entitlement to an education.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Grodzki was the 15th person to ask questions. At the moment, thirty-five people are written down to ask questions. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! This program, otherwise extremely useful, is expected by many of my constituents as well as my patients 'Cause I'm a doctor. Some are waiting so hard that they even take a line of what they say in the store to pay back 500 zlotys. What's my point? I mean, didn't the ministry consider giving this amount to families in the form of vouchers that could only be used for clothing or children's food, textbooks, etc. That's the first question. And the second question... The Minister was kind to say that this is a programme for Polish families, but already in the article. 1 paragraph Point 2 is that it is also a programme for foreigners, because it obliges us to join the European Union. Aren't we afraid that this program will open the door to the influx of immigrants? After all, those immigrants who go to Germany, Sweden or France on a mass basis do not go there because they love these countries, just because they can sense where there is good social assistance. We are helping this useful program to raise significantly, and that must be acknowledged. Aren't you worried that the side effect will be the influx of migrants, who refer to themselves as political migrants, but actually economic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u146	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u147	Mr. Senator, the ministry didn't consider the possibility of cashing out in kind vouchers at all. I can't imagine a program so wide that we can give food vouchers and decide for family what to buy or buy clothes or buy food or shop at a bookstore. Absolutely not. We believe in the wisdom of families, in independence and in the autonomy of Polish families. Parents know the needs of children best, so no vouchers. Only in exceptional circumstances, if something dramatic happens, social assistance can benefit from this possibility. Absolutely to be a monetary form, these funds will be transferred to a bank account or a postal transfer. As far as refugees are concerned, they are absolutely not covered by this assistance. Refugees have separate programmes as if they could be covered by social assistance, and the educational provision does not apply to them. With regard to benefits within the European Union, the so-called benefits apply. coordination of social security systems, so as if the benefit was chosen, and the voivodship government is engaged in making use of only one benefit system. So this is where we are governed by European Union law. As regards the entitlement, which appears to be the result of Article. 1 paragraph 2 point (2) (a) c and d and concerns foreigners from outside the European Union who are either prominent specialists and on this basis work in Poland, or have a permanent residence card, they have the right to provide education provided that they live in Poland together with their families.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u148	Thank you very much. Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u149	Minister, we saw in the Sejm how much political struggle was in connection with this law, we saw what arguments were used, what was the way of argument. We're lucky that's over, hopefully the Senate will be different. And there's an executive phase ahead of us. The state has decided that the direct contractors will be the mayors, mayors, city presidents, not e.g. ZUS. You explained here why not ZUS. Yeah, but these organs are also political. Does the Minister allow... I hope this will not happen, but does the Minister allow such a situation that these politically elected and politically elected bodies will continue to fight politically against this right law in their territory? E.g. by delaying certain actions, through an Italian strike, let's call it that. Whether there are tools in this law that would allow us to prevent such actions, let's say, obstructive, or merely follow... we will only use, assume, art. 96 or 97 Municipal Government Act? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u150	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u151	Mr. Senator, as to whether this could happen... It's a very risky strategy. The residents will always assess the efficiency of one self-government, looking at another self-government, which runs the paycheck. If, in my voivodship from which I come, the largest voivodship city, as I say, is already prepared for payout today, it is, you can say, in the starting blocks, and another, smaller local government complains that there is no regulation, no training, no instruction, and today is a meeting of the Sejm, it means that one local government can prepare better and the other one has some difficulties. It's a very risky strategy. I think the fear of harsh judgment by the residents Stop it. If someone had such temptations Before actions such as those mentioned. I can only say this: the government commissions a task, the government pays for this task, the government wants to work with local governments, the government wants to help to carry out this task well and the government will simply expect that this task, for which we will pay, will be well done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Duda. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, do you think the rich should receive this benefit? Why am I asking this? I'm asking because the third person in the country I think of our Marshal, the Senate Marshal, who said that the rich who will take this witness will compromise themselves. And he's not the only one in the government who's put it that way. So I ask, do you think the rich should take this witness or not? And why is that my concern? Because it seems to me that the law is underprecise and unprecise in this regard. Because either someone has the right and takes, or we appeal to conscience and decency. So I think it would be worth it not now, because now it is, as I understand it, too late, but one day to say: you deserve it and you don't deserve it. I'm thinking about people like that here. After all, there are many in Poland Which, even with five children, have such income... And I've read an article somewhere that shows how to invest the money wisely, from a building point of view... I'd like your opinion on that. If the Minister had been so kind and answered me... Second theme. I'd like it to sound like it's here, too. And that will be the last of your questions so that the Minister will not bother you again. When do you expect results and increased fertility? And on what basis are you mainly basing these... I'm sorry, maybe I'm too inquisitive here, but I'd like this to sound like it. What's the perspective? And I'm afraid I have to. This is the last question to ask the Minister... [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: That was the last one.]] Last one. I have to ask you this... Because we're missing it somewhere. There was a question in the Seym, and Senator Augustine asked. I mean, what about children with light disabilities between 16 and 18 years of age. You can try to find savings here on anything, but I don't think it's in this environment. [[We give, we don't answer.]] All the more so, as we know perfectly well, bringing the child to a light level over the years of a difficult process of rehabilitation and support for other possible benefits can sometimes be easily undone by forgetting about... unless I don't understand something here... In that case, explain it to me, too. You're welcome, Minister, to answer these three questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u154	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u155	Senator, you can always appeal to conscience. I make the bill, and I say that the bill gives you the opportunity to file an application. Because there's no compulsion to submit an application. There will always be a personal decision of every family here. But each of us has the right to appeal, the appeal is not binding. About when the childhood improves... I don't know what the senator wants... [[Well, what's the prognosis, if there's any data, from the CUS...]] Pregnancy lasts 9 months. But I think it's gonna take a little longer to wait. Demographic processes are slow processes. The GUS data says that in 11 years, children will improve by 278 thousand. Let's give the families time to decide. With regard to disability, who knows who, but the government's representative for persons with disabilities, that the solution we have applied has been the solution used since 2004 for family benefits. That's where the income criterion is smaller than our... [[That's why I'm asking.]] This also does not apply to people with a slight degree of disability.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u156	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u157	Thank you. It's nice to see the Minister in our courtroom. The question has been asked, but I'd like to ask you one more question, because you didn't answer the question. I would like to ask you, Minister, what is your opinion on whether people who make a lot of money are putting away money and thus very much participate in the fact that this money is affecting the state budget... Today, in a very incomprehensible way to me, many politicians in Law and Justice are simply defaming them. Today you share those people who really get to the smaller or bigger money, money that doesn't fall from the sky and doesn't multiply like our 2016 budget... I'd like to know your opinion on this. I asked the Senator of the rapporteur if there would be an administrative path. 'Cause as far as I know, there's no record of that. So that the bailiff who takes the money out of his family's bank account can somehow return it quickly to his bank account. And the question that the Senator rapporteur didn't answer either. According to the media, it is likely that an army of 7,000 officials will have to be hired. Is that true? If not, what estimates does the Ministry have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u158	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u159	Mr. Senator, after I've known you, I don't want this to sound too rude, but, High Izbo, I'm here to tell you what my position as Minister is, not my private position. As Minister, I say that the current state of law is that any person, regardless of his or her income situation, can submit an application, and for the second and every subsequent child will receive support in the amount of PLN 500. As Minister, I would also like to say that I would like those children we talk about all the time, whom we care so much, to be born in all families regardless of their material situation. However, it happens that often these families... And that's from the data I was talking about. With income above PLN 5,000 there are only 11 thousand families who would lose their entitlement to this benefit. So the number of children in families whose material situation is good is not so great. I wish children were born in all families. As far as bailiffs are concerned, education is free from bailouts. There are also different possibilities: you can receive money not by transfer to your account, but for example. by post... There are local governments that are gonna make payouts at the checkpoint. But it's generally free of bailouts. As regards the number of officials employed, the government does not decide how many officials will be employed. The government will carry out the tasks and the local government will decide for itself how many officials will have to hire and whether it can carry out this service thanks to the services it already has at its disposal. Like I said, if we say 7,000 officials, it's gonna sound extremely dangerous, and as we say, 2.5. thousands of municipalities, these numbers look different. But it's not the government's party that decides who's gonna hire the community of how many officials.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski. Ask me a question. [[I volunteered to speak, but the question isn't. Thank you.]] I'm sorry. There are 13 more senators who volunteered for the question. Senator Oremski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u161	Minister, when granting loans, the bank calculates the lending capacity of the trying bank. The calculation method is an internal matter of the bank. Of course, this is beyond the competence of the government, because banks often also include income. From the gray area... However, I would like to ask whether the Ministry has any knowledge, any assumption, whether this 500 PLN per child will rather be included in the calculation of creditworthiness or not. If it were taken into account, it would be an additional advantage of this proposal. It's one question. And second question. During the debate in the Sejm, the Minister noticed that a greater barrier is in the case of decisions about the other child when one has one than the first child when one is childless. However, from the point of view, if I'm not mistaken, Modern was said to be a much more difficult decision, the one about the first child. Perhaps this involved different barriers, e.g. Psychological. Here's my question: are there any studies that show which threshold is more sensitive? Or the one in the transition from zero to one, or the one in the two. - For financial incentives?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u162	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u163	Mr. Senator, as for this credit rating, it's gonna be hard for me to answer. When I was a senator myself, I tried to get credit, I was in trouble because it was considered that the mandate wasn't enough to guarantee it. And she was right about that because I was a senator in this short term, two years old. But that's a bit of a joke. In general, ladies and gentlemen, if the family is multi-children and gets a benefit, a permanent benefit for two children, whose value can be calculated over a period of several years, I think that this ability is improving. Except they're already bank decisions, not mine. As regards the decision on the child in the case of young families who do not have children, and those families who have one child, absolutely all studies show that the decision on the first child is made by Polish families regardless of the material situation, it is more cultural than material. However, if we have one child, we often do not choose to have another child, among others. for fear of deterioration in the material situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u164	Thank you very much. Senator Dobkowski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u165	Thank you very much. Minister, I have two questions. First: was it calculated, estimated, how much of the 17 billion allocated to support children will return to the state budget, for example, for purchases that families will make through the funds received? And the other. Was the option of the law considered, which would consist in introducing an income criterion for all children, assuming that these wealthiest families, with the highest incomes, would not have any subsidies at all, but would have raised the threshold, the income criterion for the first child and others? Then those families who are less wealthy would receive the benefit of all their children, and those who are very rich would not receive any subsidies at all. Has this option been considered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u166	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u167	Senator, when it comes to the refund of VAT as a result of purchases made by families, the estimates are about PLN 2.0.3 billion. This could go back to the state budget in the form of VAT paid off on purchases made by parents. That's the answer to the first question. And the other one. I have already talked to the High House about the savings that would result from this and the fact that, at PLN 3,000, these savings, which amount to 267 million, would in no way cover the payment of the benefit to 3 million children. I am no longer talking about the fact that this would eliminate the incentive effect of increasing the childhood involved in providing a second child.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u169	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, on the basis of the principles of supporting families with more than one child, please tell me what the situation is: there is a five-person family, including three children. One is 18 years old, the other 19 years old, which means he's in high school, the third child is 7 years old. And the income of PLN 750 per person. So this one kid, I understand, isn't gonna get backup, right? If I'm wrong, I'm asking you to get me out of this. But if I'm not mistaken, then a little bit... it's a thing that, to put it mildly, you should think about, because there are three children, so supporting the family... [[Voice from the room: Well, indeed.]] That's one thing. I'm almost done, Minister. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska: Mr Senator, what is the income on the family?]] 750 PLN per person, there are three children: 18 years old, 19 years old and 7 years old. Is this 7-year-old kid gonna get backup? That's the first question. If he gets it, okay, and if he doesn't, I'd ask for a brief explanation. And second question. According to statistics, according to data provided by CUS 7,4% 7',7',7',7',7',7',7',8',7',7',7',7',7',7',7',7',7',8',7',7',7',7',7',7',7',7',7',8',7',7',7',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',5',8',5',5',8',8',8',8',5',8',5',5',8',8',5',8',5',5',',5',5',8',5',5',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',8',',8',8',8',',',',',',',',',',',',',8',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',',' people are at risk of extreme poverty, a percentage of which are people from multi-child families, as the Minister confirmed. Tell me. Because politicians often have such a discussion about how many starving children you think are in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u170	Minister, you're welcome. [[According to the Minister, of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u171	Three-person family... [[Voice from the room: 5-person.]] Children 18 years of age, 19 years of age and 7 years of age. Thus, children who are 18 years of age lose their right to education, although if they are learning, they are counted in the calculation of the income criterion. There's one child in this family who meets the condition, a 7-year-old child. The income of the family is PLN 750 net, the income criterion is PLN 800, i.e. this family will receive a benefit of PLN 500 per child. [[So he'll get it.]] Yes, he will receive this witness. And second question? [[The second question was the number of starving children in Poland, according to the Minister.]] Ninety thousand... According to GUS records, there are 800,000 starving children. [[It's below the threshold, not starving, let's not say things like that.]] Okay, well, of course below... [[Voice from the room: 3%.]] Depending on how these data are formulated... But clearly, ladies and gentlemen, what is characterized by Polish poverty is the greater poverty of children and young people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u172	Senator Wojtyla. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the demographic effect that you predict within 10 years of the introduction of this law is 240 000 for a period of 10 years. I think it's very careful respect. If we compare the second demographic summit at the beginning of the 1980s, then we will see that this impulse was much stronger. Have such careful estimates been influenced by the emigration of the yearbooks from the late 1970s and 1980s, and has this been taken into account?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u174	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u175	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. Indeed, we forget more than 2 million young people or Poles who emigrated abroad. Most of them were also young people, so those who started a family and decided on children. As for the forecasts that are given by the CSO, I also believe that they are cautious, they are talking about 278 thousand additional births. However, this is difficult to compare with the increase in birth in 1980, because then the children of the post-war generation were born, the generations of the 1950s, from the 1955 yearbook, when it was the largest... one of the biggest demographic jumps, because it was the most numerous yearbook. And it's probably gonna be hard to jump those yearbooks. But I don't think the GUS prognosis is exaggerated. I believe that this growth could be better, especially if there was such a change as was somewhat due to the senator's question about immigration. If we stop the wave of departures of young people, if young people decide to stay in Poland and start families here, then it may turn out that the Polish people will have a children's index not at the level of 1.29, as it is at the moment In the Isles it's 2.5 Only at a level higher than the projected 1,6. And perhaps some of the families that emigrated will decide to return to the country and start a family here or increase the size of the family.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u176	Thank you very much. We have 10 more senators to ask questions. Senator Mioduszewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have questions from families who are nervous about today, whether or not, I say, they're gonna get on this bill. Is this tax threshold of PLN 800 a net amount? The second question concerns benefits that are, I would say, excluded from counting this income. It is primarily about benefits from the Alimentation Fund. Will alimony also not be taken into account when calculating this income? And the third question. I'm wondering... The family is supposed to apply every year. Does that make any sense to families that, I would say, have a stable situation? Suppose they have two children, so the second child gets a benefit. And it can go on for another dozen years. Should such a family apply each year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u179	The benefit of 500 PLN is a net benefit. The income criterion of 800 PLN is also net. One thousand 200 PLN is also a net amount. The provision of education shall not be counted as income to the maintenance fund. If that were the case, for example, receiving a parental benefit could result in a criterion of PLN 725 in the case of two persons who lost their entitlement to maintenance. We apply once a year. There are various events, Mr. Senator, related to the income situation of the family, the situation of life. Moreover, there is an obligation to report and control public funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u180	Thank you very much. Senator Kopiczko, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u181	Minister... [[You have to press...]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Minister, I have a question. We introduce the first comprehensive law on state aid in raising children in Poland. Raising children is among others. encouraging children to participate in various forms of extracurricular activities, organising activities that develop their interests, talents. It is also a participation in sports clubs, in educational trips. Today, families face a problem because they often have to answer the question of what to choose, what to do or what to do. It is simply that the lack of funding often prevents students from attending these classes. I have a question for the Minister: do you foresee any comparative studies on how this situation is going to be and how it will look in time? I'm gonna do some research on my turf. In the city of Ełku up to 6.5 thousand children will be covered by such a form of help in raising children. I could talk more about parenting, but I will limit myself to this fundamental question. The point is for the ministry to lean on this suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u182	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u183	Senator, that's another question that shows how widely this bill will work. Another senator asked how she would improve children's health, and now the senator asks how she would affect the availability of educational services, extracurricular activities. These are our hopes that children's well-being, the quality of life of children will significantly improve in various areas, including areas where parents have not yet been able to finance these activities. Holiday vacation or after-school activities... Unfortunately, after-school activities are often in paid form. [[Yes, Minister, as well as participation in language camps...]] Right. In winters, in various actions... [[It would be good to examine it in time, because the participation will certainly increase, I'm sure of it.]] Thank you for the suggestion. I'm sure we'll be conducting the evaluations. It's written in the law. And we will provide Parliament with information on the implementation of this law. We will review the benefits, wide impact and impact. We'll work here with the Minister of Education, the Minister of Health. We hope, and it is enormous, that this will happen, as the senator says, that it will be in the educational sphere that a qualitative change will be made. This could also help to compensate for educational opportunities in rural environments, small towns, in the province, and to address these environments. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the big cities and agglomerations that will be the biggest beneficiaries of this programme, it will be the smaller environments for which this programme will be an opportunity, for example. to improve access to health services for children, educational services and others.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u184	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Mr. Frost's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u185	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, today we still have to tire ourselves out... I am very impressed that within two months of this government's operation, such a program... I hope that today we will be able to complete work on the bill and this programme will start soon. You must have worked hard for the past few hours. The Minister, they come to my senator's office of various people and disbelievably ask if we're really going to give them the money. Because all the time it's kind of like... Well, a lot of people can't believe it yet, even though it's very loud about it. It is known that the burden of payment of these benefits will rest on local governments. In some cases it will be done by municipal authorities, in some cases Social care centers, well, it's gonna be different for communities to organize. They're free here. Minister, my question is: is the government planning to carry out some kind of information campaign in this area? I think it would be more effective... In consultation with local authorities on the different circumstances... Are local governments obliged to prepare such an information campaign? Because these people are gonna have to... It's gonna be passed today, maybe tomorrow, and these people are gonna start coming in and asking, "Where are we supposed to apply?" Well, there's enormous pressure. Does the government have any idea about information and has it been agreed with local governments? That's my first question. And second question. Minister, at today's committee meeting, there was an example of Germany, where support of 180 is paid... It's 188 euros, if I'm not mistaken. It was also given an example of France, where the second child is paid support. Could you describe how our programme or this law, already passed by the Sejm, and I hope that today it will be passed by the Senate, looks on the basis of solutions in other countries? Can we ask for some examples? I'm sure by building this program, you've been checking how it works in other countries around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u186	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Another question about the information action. This will be an extremely important part of government and self-government work. At the moment, absolutely all voivodeships are waiting to launch an information campaign on websites, through infolining, various actions, meetings, informants, but the final shape can be given to the information campaign only after the adoption of this law. So this will be carried out in cooperation with Minister Błaszczak and with the services of the voivodships at regional level. This will also be implemented at central level. The media's interest is huge, huge. It's because of the family interest and what the senator said some people didn't believe that... And once the proposal is ready, the bill and in a moment you will have to submit applications, it is also an information campaign, where and how, where... The government did not commit the government directly, because it is a task commissioned, but if you want to carry out the payment efficiently, you cannot do it without carrying out an effective information action. 'Cause you have to say where, what hours, when, who's gonna take it, where, what times, like I said. Well, there's no other way to do it. I think, as I said, this will also be a test of the organizational skills of many local governments. I can't imagine it any other way. Of course, many of the family policies applied by European countries have been analysed. These systems are very complex, because this is e.g. aid in the form of housing allowances. The model we refer to is still the French model. We know the amount of benefits in Ireland, in the UK, for example because there are so many Poles there. I can tell you not to go into too much detail, that the amount of our benefit is already becoming competitive in relation to the amount of benefits paid in those countries that conduct family policy. These expenditures result in an increase of more than one percentage point compared to GDP. That's an absolutely jumping increase and we're going over 3%. GDP, which places Poland among countries that have such a family policy, which weighs something that means something to the family. Of course, we're not racing Germans. Family benefits are higher there, but the impact of material support in terms of improving children is completely ineffective. But as I said, Germany is an unsavory exception.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Spokesperson. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u189	Thank you very much. The Minister, 500 PLN for each child, was of course important from the point of view of the hope of many families before the elections, they voted for Law and Justice, but today, after the bill has been passed, many questions arise. I've got families with them, too. I'm going to ask a very specific question, because I have to answer a certain family when they get back, why they're not going to get support. It is a family whose income barely exceeds 800 PLN, is a child with type 1 diabetes at the age of 16. And next to it is a family with similar income, with two children, and she will receive an additional 1 thousand PLN. Is this, from the point of view of social justice, about which we talk so much Next to support for poor families Is it really the right solution? Well, it seems that many families in a similar situation will be very disappointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u190	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Our program is supposed to have a demographic impact. Like I said, those families that have two children. This will not be an income criterion. They will receive support of PLN 500. Law and Justice were clearly talking about their proposal during the election campaign. The voters trusted us, they accepted this program. We are implementing this program today. If the child in the family is 16 years old and the income criterion is met, he will receive a benefit of PLN 500. If the income criterion is exceeded, he will not receive an educational benefit. The benefit is paid until the age of eighteen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u192	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Good morning, Minister. I have four questions. The first question concerns the amount of 500 PLN. What was the basis for calculating this amount? I mean, what was the reason for the decision that this is actually 500 PLN? And here's an additional question. Because 500 PLN is something slightly different in Warsaw or in a big city and something slightly different in small towns, because the purchasing power of this money is completely different, for example. additional classes, because in Warsaw they are very expensive, and in Gryfice, in Gorlice or in Radzyń Podlaski they are simply cheaper. The second question is this. In my opinion, there has been a very dangerous situation of segregation of people on those richer or more wealthy and less wealthy. And it could be completely different here, too. E.g. The person who earns PLN 3,000 in Gryfice in West Pomerania is already considered to be relatively wealthy and there is such pressure: then do not take this money, these 500 PLN, because you are more wealthy than others. In Warsaw or Krakow it will of course be a different amount. The third question, Minister, is this. Well, I'm the father of two daughters. There's been a situation... Are you going to counter it? I mean, it's always said that the amount of 500 PLN is for the second, third child. I have a 13-year-old daughter. She asked me a very simple question: how is it that in the family this help is aimed only at the younger sister and not at her. She would also want to be the person who is under the care of the Polish government. And question four, Minister, last question. You said, just now, referring to the French model... The truth is that if we want to fight for more children to be born, there must be a sense of safety in the family that the child will go to kindergarten, to nursery; that the mother who works will have the opportunity to return to work, to be promoted; that there is help for the mother who raises children, and of course for the father. I have such a question for you, whether the government, apart from the 500+ programme, 500 PLN per child, is planning other additional programs that will safeguard the family and give full security to the mother and father, that if the third child or fourth child is born, this helpful hand of the state will be drawn to them. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u194	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Where did 500 PLN come from? This can be attributed to the overall cost of living, in which the government participates in half or even more, in 60% of the cost. In our data we report that the average monthly cost of living a child in the family, so averaged, is PLN 514. Hence the proposed amount. It was supposed to be a significant amount for the family. Second, differentiation. If we were to go down to the level I don't know if that was such a suggestion. In Warsaw, where 500 PLN means less, there is much more to be earned than in small cities where poverty is greater and people earn less. For them, this 500 PLN represents a greater value and is more expected than in the large urban environments. We do not have a differentiated minimum wage in Poland. I don't know anything about different rates of benefits either. In the case of any benefits of this type of differentiation, we do not apply. I think that would be absolutely unusable. I'm gonna answer that now... Because I'd really like the High House to remember that. Because education is not for Jasi, Kasi, Zosia, younger, older. The benefit is for the family, and the mechanism for calculating this benefit is based on what we are talking about, which is how many children there are. Tell your daughter absolutely that your parents are getting this benefit, and it doesn't matter if she's younger or if she's 18 in a minute and she's out of the system. It doesn't matter. Help is given to the family. In that sense, in this family, it's for every child. If the family receives a parenting service, it will be for the family. As far as the French model and our actions are concerned, of course, the senator knows very well that there are not 100 days as we rule. We are talking about the fact that it takes a long time to build a family policy, but such a comprehensive policy, as set out in the agreement between the resorts. And we will build such a policy, but at the same time we will implement the development of institutional care networks or various forms, e.g. day care provider Because there is also a great need to provide care for children, both pre-school care and other forms. I'm sure it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal, maybe only 30 seconds to complete. The point is for the Minister to understand. I understand that there are more earners in Warsaw, but there are also places in Warsaw where wages are identical to those in small towns. I am just paying more attention to this, so that when building these various programs to help the family, we should pay attention to this aspect. 'Cause, you know, like... in Prague I met with such families who earn very little, and would like to send children to additional English, to swim, to various after-school activities, only that they in Warsaw are just more expensive than in a small village. And the other thing, Minister. And here I would like to be well understood. There have been many questions about information policy here. In the Polish media and in the whole public debate about this program of help to the family there appeared various such information... First of all, a person more wealthy... And this wealth varies from place to place, because in Warsaw, let's assume, it's 10,000 zlotys, I'm shooting now, of course it's not data. In the Gryfice it is 3.5 thousand PLN. And there's pressure here, so when someone like that calls in for that money, it can be very negative. This is, in my opinion, a very dangerous phenomenon. If we want to help our family, influence our sense of security, or even encourage another child, this cannot be the case. And the same is true of this information action, because where there are two, three children, this child is a little older, who understands what's going on, has a sense like I mentioned, and here I set an example of my family... The point is to explain that it's really helping the family so that a father, a mother can help their children or invest in their children.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u197	Thank you. The Minister still wants to refer, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, where people earn less in Warsaw, they will simply catch up and get the benefit of the first child because of the criterion, otherwise it cannot be differentiated. As far as this element of influence and identification is concerned in smaller environments, I can only say yes: it is a right and everyone can submit an application. You really don't have to go and get in line at the social services center, you don't have to stand in the benefit division, you can e.g. request by electronic means, no need to stand at the cashier's window and collect benefits, only this money can affect the account. Well, it's also a matter of decision for these families. But I accept this further remark, and I regret what the senator said. Because the whole discussion identified the granting of the benefit to the child. And it's very important that in families it doesn't happen that one of the children has the belief that it has a greater right to this money. There would be nothing worse than building such a belief that a child who has turned 18 and lost his authority is excluded in some part. This is a total misunderstanding. In this action and in this debate, I will pay particular attention to this issue and I will ask and the management of the Ministry, and the government, and all those who inform, to provide such information that it is a help to the family. Parents decide, it's helping to raise children. Even if the witnessing is for one child, it is a help in raising children, also other than the specific one, because it was only the key to counting the amount of the witness. But that is a very good point, and I regret that this is unfortunately the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u199	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u200	Thank you, Minister, for stressing so clearly that this is a parenting service for the family, because this is very important. I am glad that Polish farmers will also be able to benefit from it, because for many years they have had problems using various benefits. We remember the beatdown, we managed to do something, then there was a problem again. We also have the opportunity to use the so-called. maternity leave. And I want to say one thing: this maternity leave is basically paid out of agricultural contributions, 40% is paid from agricultural contributions, and only 60% is subsidised from the state budget. And therefore, the question. Whether it's a witness or so-called. will maternity leave be included in the income of the farmer? The income of the farmer according to the given figures today amounts to PLN 2 000 6. Will direct payments be added to the farmer who receives direct payments from European funds, or will they not be added to the income? Because if we count one, two, three, that's when... Is it off? I partially understand, but for the sake of clarification, the Minister would like to say which are included, which are not included. For example, a farmer who has 12 ha and has one child will not get a benefit for the first child, because 2,5 thousand on three... Well, that's not gonna happen. Everyone with a farm over 12 ha won't get, but, I understand, those smaller farms that have no other source of income... I would also ask you to explain whether the benefit of maternity leave will be included in the income or not. Will direct and other payments from the European benefit fund be included or not included?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u201	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u202	I'll answer the first question: yes, it's included. Number two: no, it's not counted. As far as the calculation of the income criterion is concerned, this is the case with family benefits. The GUS data is used to calculate... It's about the data for 1 ha of conversion. [[It was about PLN 2,000 506.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u204	At the meeting of the local self-government committee, I have pointed out, as a follow-up to the opinion of the General Data Protection Officer, that the proposed law contains a legally challenged provision introducing the concept: entities considered to be a single data controller. I had the impression that both GIODO, the legislator and the representatives of the Ministry are aware of the incorrectness of this record. Its elimination requires only the removal of Article. 38 procedated law, without any substantive consequences for the entire law. Thus, as Kuba Sienkiewicz sang, we all agree. So you can eliminate this feler. However, the discussion so far shows that we will not do so and that we will adopt a law that is not free from this legal defect. And it will continue as it is. Doesn't the Minister think that the law should be free from the legal defects that have been revealed in the legislative process already at the start?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u205	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, I think that every piece of legislation should be free of flaws. I think that's what every minister is trying to do; it's obvious to me. As for these reservations, it was not a clear opinion. I can say that there is a envisaged review of the Personal Data Protection Act and we will look closely at it. As I say, there were no clear opinions about the dispute on this issue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll ask Senator Andrzej Spider for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. For this program to have the effect of demographic growth in Poland, I think it will have to wait 25 years or more. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Pregnancy lasts 9 months.]] The pregnancy lasts nine months, but for these pregnancies to grow significantly, it's gonna have to wait. The effect of this will only be in the future. And God forbid, because that's what we're talking about. I have a question. Does the Ministry have a programme of this pro-family policy at least for a quarter of a century? As I say, there's a long way to go that requires a lot of projects. Does such a program exist or will it be developed? Minister and Minister, you're only at the beginning of this road. And second question. Is there any chance in this programme that there is a link between the system of helping families with multiple children and the pension system? The children are future ZUS contributions payers. Why someone, e.g. I have eight children. Who raises a lot of future ZUS payers, there is no relief e.g. as a contribution or a higher pension? Why should my children, children of a multi-children's family, work for someone who, let's say, lived his whole life peacefully and comfortably, didn't exert himself while others worked hard? My children or children from other families of many children are to work today for retirement of some SB general, general of the WSI, or police, who is retiring in the amount of 12.15 thousand, while the parents of these children have 1 thousand or 1 thousand 200 PLN of pension. I think it's a great injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, great respect and appreciation, really... [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]] Bravo, yes! Raise eight children without state aid, because probably then there were no programs and no support... [[If Platform had passed this bill eight years earlier, I would've taken advantage of something, now it's not...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[...Senator was a member of the Platform at the time...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Izbo, because in this programme many families will benefit most from helping to raise their children, I think that this is how we express our appreciation for all the families that were most difficult because they had taken up the challenge of upbringing, gave up the more comfortable way of life... Because children are still learning, they still have growing needs, sometimes it is necessary to safeguard the needs of housing and various other... So that today the government certainly says that it appreciates and recognizes these families. Demographic processes are slow, they are really ongoing and will take time, but, as I said, you can do nothing and you can try to do something. Mr. Senator, the family policy program... Today we're finalizing the bill, it's not three months... As the senator said, and what the Supreme Chamber of Control also accused of saying was that previously there were elements of family policy, and there was no coherent concept and coordination of this programme, so that it was clear... It's gonna take time, we're gonna work on it, as soon as we're done working on this bill, we're gonna start with conceptual work. Retirement system. Well, we can't go back. These solutions that have already been in force, the law does not work backwards. We have a review of the pension system this year, and there is also a bill after a public hearing after first reading. Regardless of the version in which he would have been accepted, this return to the age of 60 for women and 65 for men in a sense also restores the protective potential of the family. There are studies that show that women who, for example. can count on the support of parents But parents, mostly it's about mom, grandmother of children. They are four times more likely to decide to expand their family. So that's an increase of 400%. The fact that they can count on help, how children will be sick, or help with care, is important support, so here, too, it's not meaningless that the protective potential of the family, because a 67-year-old woman is certainly less capable of caring, e.g. On a little kid.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. Now... Oh, you're Senator Dobrzyński. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u212	He'll crack that I made it, Mrs. Marshal, thank you. [[Voice from the room: From the march...]] Minister, somehow I still approach this commission, just like Senator Ryszka. You don't think that's the 2%. Is that too much? After all, the municipalities are prepared, have legal counsels, have teams for work, have social assistance departments or family assistance, names are different, have centres, city help centres or city social assistance centres. They often double with office departments. That's a huge amount. I hope that in the future we will be paying around 25 billion a year, 2% out of this amount, it's 0.5 billion. I think this amount is big, I don't see it, and somehow I don't feel that way, Minister, the need to buy some other equipment like computers. After all, it is all in our municipalities, there were various kinds of expenditures for this purpose, there were EU funds, the municipalities are really prepared and this amount, in my opinion, is too big unless it is about some wage increases, which I am, of course, for. I don't see the need to hire thousands of extra workers either. I don't feel it, Minister. I'd like you to comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u213	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the voices are conflicting. Part of the environment says it's not enough, part of it says it's too much. The finance minister probably thinks it's too much, and he offered 30 zlotys for his decision. I am in favour of the task that the local government does. The tasks ordered, i.e. not their own, which the local government must carry out. One of the senators, or not even one or not two, including Senator Szymański, raised concerns about how local governments would implement the program, fears that local governments may not always be, say, a friendly government side, so I will describe it. So I imagine a situation where we would order a task that would be poorly paid, and we would require a high level of service. Today the government is opening up: we pay quite decently for the task, but we also expect decent service, the performance of local governments with this task. However, this is not PLN 0.5 billion. This year's gonna be 2%. , i.e. 340 million, and next year, due to the lower loads, it will be 1.5% I guess it's 345 million. I repeat: in the first year is 2% In the second year it's 1.5%. This is a comfortable situation: we give a task, we pay for this task, and we count on it, we expect it to be well done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to ask specifically, briefly and quite substantively, I hope. During the public debate on the bill, there were doubts about waste. It was served here, for what... As the Deputy Minister explained here at the committee meeting, at the time of the procedure of the law, perhaps at the stage of the public consultation, an article was added. 9. But in the morning, during the commission's work, the question was whether the concept of waste was sharp enough. Well, it's underprecise. And I'd like to say a few words about that. With regard to the discretion and subjective feelings of social assistance officials as regards waste, it would not be appropriate to clarify this Maybe not in the form of a catalog, because it wouldn't be a happy move either. To make this concept more acute? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u217	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! A precise definition, a sharp wording would not give any flexibility. I'll say this recipe, I think, is an emergency exit. This is a recipe that has been in force for almost 12 years, operates in the Family Benefits Act and is used really occasionally. 12 years of validity of the provision is to be applied in exceptional circumstances. It is such a mechanism, just in case, in fact, in school, in kindergarten, there is some negligence in the nursery, e.g. A child without books, a child without clothing, neglected. And only then can a social worker carry out a simplified environmental interview and make a partial switch to services or to in-kind assistance. There's absolutely no danger here. about some broad application of this provision. We'll monitor it. There's nothing to worry about, completely. Like I said, the rule has been in force for 12 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u219	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Elephant's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The Minister, the community of social assistance, also during the consultations that you carried out some time ago, raised the problem that the 500+ programme offers a chance for many families to come out of the social assistance system, which would be undoubtedly beneficial and, I would say, a certain quality for these families. Please tell me what ultimately decided that we did not take up this challenge and do not include 500+ in those income that operate in the social assistance system, and these families will remain in the sphere of social assistance interest by taking up education. Second question. Is the government planning a media campaign about the 500+ programme in the context of the dangers that arise in relation to the wave of fraud that threatens families, beneficiaries of this programme? Because already there are signals about fake intermediaries, fake social workers, telemarketers who are trying to deceive potential beneficiaries of the program. And such an information campaign would also, in my opinion, be used to warn families against attempted fraud and fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u221	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Indeed, the provision of education is not now included in the funds from the Alimitation Fund, family benefits, or social assistance. In the first version, even before the interministerial arrangements, it was. But what would happen then? For example, a person who would receive an education of PLN 500 would lose the benefit of PLN 300, so as if this lowest group of families, the lowest income we are talking about today, would benefit not from the benefit of PLN 500, but the difference between one and the other. In case of a benefit of PLN 725... In the case of the Asylum Fund, where the threshold of access is PLN 725, after the addition of the amount received after the split of PLN 500 per two would be PLN 975. In such a case, the mother would lose the right to benefit from the Asylum Fund, which amounts to almost PLN 400 or on average PLN 380. So she'd gain 500 zlotys, but she'd lose a lot. And we'd have plenty of cases like this. And this change would cause the cost of this programme to be higher, too, but for social reasons, we have talked a lot about social solidarity, in a situation where we do not introduce the upper threshold, the loss of the right to benefits would be unacceptable, it would be regarded as an injustice of the programme. Information and a wave of fraud. Yeah, there's been situations like this before. We've had these signals before. We've been protesting, we've been allergic. The media are also involved in information campaigns. All we can do is follow. There's no possibility, there's no such thing as a free download... It is possible in this area It's just such a quick transmission through the media, not to give people the opportunity to extort money through the various systems that work today, whether it's text messages or contributions or walking... We have concerns about this and, of course, we will keep these matters up to date.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Gentlemen of the Senators, please remain silent. The question is Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u224	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to say that at the end of this Senate meeting and at the end of the process of supporting families the amount of 500 PLN is not just waiting for poor families. I have two granddaughters who have a lot of out-of-school activities, among others. Ballet, there's the delivery of children and the costs involved. So that these changes are also expected by richer families. And it's not true that only poor families will benefit from it. It's not just about childhood, but it's also about the fact that we're going to educate society at a higher level. I have this question to the Minister: did you set up a way of monitoring the use of this money in terms of both reducing and increasing this amount? When will the indicative deadline be known to verify the validity of this amount by the Ministry? Is it six months from now or a year from now? The effects will be known quite quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u225	Thank you, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Act contains an obligation to report annually. The first report will be a bit later, as in 2018. At the same time, we have a duty... We proposed ourselves an overview of all benefits and the impact of the educational benefit on other benefits. This should be known no later than one year after the entry into force of the law. We are very interested in monitoring the program. We're aware of how much it costs. We are curious how all the data on the number of groups will be verified and we will also look at the other elements of the benefit system.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u227	Thank you, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! There's one more thing about this program. I hope that this will be developed and implemented in the future. It's about something like this. If a woman is the mother of four, five or six children, shouldn't the state sign her employment contract? Let's say that this would be about the number of children I was talking about, or there would be some other threshold. After all, the work of this mother, this woman in raising children, is a thousand times more important to society than the work of many of your officials, even at a high level. 'Cause what do we do sometimes with paperwork and reporting? And here's a specific job, a job. Will this ever be appreciated in our country?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u229	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! A family with six children can receive support from the state budget of PLN 3 000. It's almost... We're talking about a net benefit. This is the help that allows you to make informed choices. And about the employment, and about the change. I think it's a very significant support. I don't know any system in which you'd use the solution you were talking about. Even rich Germans do not use such a solution. I think support at the level of PLN 3,000 is felt for the family.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u231	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u232	Minister, welcome very much! Milk's already spilled, Minister. As you promise money for every child... That puzzle you told Senator Napieralski, I really like it. That actually is for every child, but if there are two, it is 250 PLN per child. But that's not what I'm talking about. It is known that this money is needed, but since it has been said for every... This social problem will always exist because people have such expectations and not other expectations. Therefore, the Platform's programme and its amendments to ensure that money is spent on all children. We're all gonna have to deal with this. The program is government, but we're responsible for the state. I have this question: has it all been counted as you have entered the program and started to implement it? I ask, because it is the policy of this format, i.e. of a senator or of a Member, that is, anticipating for a few years ahead. If it turns out that the program is beyond our capabilities... We are about to see further promises, namely a reduction in the retirement age, tax cuts and additional issues related to the French people, which the newspapers are concerned about. Has all this been calculated? You entered the elections with a certain program and a picture of Poland in ruins. Apparently, she's not in such a mess when you can afford to spend it. How does the Minister foresee how this could affect the budget of 2017, for which the governing party will be responsible? Because that is the question that citizens are asking, who are simply interested in the fate of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u233	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, it was so nice. [[What did I say?]] Has it been counted? Of course it's been counted. The senator is so worried about the financials and whether this program can be counted, whether it can be financed in 2017. Then tell me, why didn't the Platform worry about the same thing yesterday, applying for a child benefit to be financed, which resulted in an increase in spending by billions of zlotys, almost once again as much as they are now? You're insanely inconsistent. Because on the one hand, you say that there is no funding for the programme under this proposal that we are making, i.e. with the income criterion for the first child and without the income criterion starting with the second. And in which this funding is calculated on more than 17 billion this year and more than 22 billion next year, and on the other hand, you are worried about whether there will be a tight budget for 2017, and you are proposing that there be a benefit for each child. Well, I'm afraid you have to be able to make up your mind about something. We have this option, that's our proposal. Finance is stable, GDP deficit is 3% We have security, so I think these concerns are unfounded.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u235	Thank you very much. Please... [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Art. 2 in the Act speaks of income, of course, among others. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20 says what's additionally included in the income. My question is this: is there any verification during the year after the application has been submitted, or is it just an application made at the beginning of the year, and now from April 1st, it will count, as it is said, until the following year? Is it an obligation to report current revenue increases, or is it determined on the basis of the previous year what revenue has been generated? 'Cause, you know, like... in the case of agriculture, the amount of the farmer's flat-rate income in 2014. And it's not his income at all, it's his lump sum as calculated, and regardless of the fact that this farmer has almost no income, that lump sum counts for it. But if the farmer gets at that time e.g. sick because it includes sickness benefits, what, he's gonna have to report during a given year, or he's gonna have to report that he got sick benefits? Because it's with KRUS, he's a premium payer, so-called. the contribution fund, and there farmers pay their own contributions and there the amount of sickness benefit is more than PLN 10 per day. Is that gonna count? Will he be required to report or not? Will there be verification, or will the application be submitted once a year and the following year again?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u237	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! There is a duty to report changes in the income situation, i.e. if there is a loss of income if the situation is improved, it is an obligation to report this. [[And if it doesn't fold, then you're subject to the provisions of not making a statement?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I'm asking because it's not clear to me the definition of a child in the bill. There's a glossary, that's the definition in the article. 2. In this connection, I would like to ask: will the child, according to the Act, count from conception or from birth? [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska: From what?]] From conception or from birth?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u241	Minister? [[Because it's unclear to me.]] [[That's not what this bill is about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u242	From birth, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u243	Thank you very much, Minister. Anybody else want to ask you a question? [[No.]] No. Thank you very much, Minister, for your extensive information. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[They ended up with a firecracker. Amen.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator. [[Senator, you've lost something.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u244	This is overtime. I left the overtime. It's for the blind... [[The Senator presents a large board with a table containing the foundation of the program Troska 500+.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today Kurski's television has already announced documents on the basis of which you can apply for 500 PLN. Minister Marczuk in the interview For the TOK FM or RMF FM, I believe he announced that the Senate today after 12 a.m. He's gonna adopt the bill without any amendments. [[Voice from the room: I think it's after 24 o'clock.]] For confirmation by the PIS colleagues, they requested to proceed with the bill without amendment. I state that the seriousness of the High House has been violated. I state that the High House has ceased to be a place for debate, for abomination, and has become a seminary room. If so, in the name of the protest, I join in actually talking to people, not organizers of the seminary hall. High Izbo, this law like a cannon salvo contains many elements. The Minister was the first to mention boldness. I'd add what's confirmed... This bill or this program I still don't see the program, it's just the law says that we're going to focus at least on the family arrangement 2+2. Indeed, this law is a very difficult effort, directed at obtaining funds to secure it. However, this law not only refers to already known arguments, it also contains many, many axiological and legal errors. I've tabled amendments, so I'm not gonna talk about statutory, I'm gonna talk about rules. First, there's a reservation. It's not a bill that gives families something for children, it's a bill that gives money away. The difference is that giving takes place in order to achieve some purpose, purpose and purpose, and the other is a free, unwitting spread of money. In axiology, like I said... Minister Marczuk, as well as his colleagues in these roundabout discussions, emphasize that it is necessary to stop with the state's paternalism and not to determine how the money is to be spent, because the family knows best what to spend money on. A beautiful phrase and under it I would sign, only, dear colleagues, Dear Minister, Dear Prime Minister, this is not family money. This is basically the taxpayer's money, the taxpayer we're taking it from to give it to others without knowing the full effect of it. Therefore, the State has the right to determine for what purpose this money will be used for. And when Minister Marczuk writes in his beautiful article that the family has the right to enjoy and should enjoy the full freedom of these means, she adds, and in the wake of it, Mrs Mazurek: oh no, on children, on new children... So there's a contradiction here, because if we say there's gonna be new kids, it's not what you want. This law contains an element of uncertainty. I agree that he will remove a small but unacceptable margin of poverty. I agree that some people who are at the border between the passionate desire to have a child and the absence of 500 PLN will choose to have a child. I even agree it's gonna be $25,000 a year... But that means that this bill has another mistake. She's giving money to everyone, and that's not enough to make those kids more. This bill, unfortunately, does not create a safety shield for the family. There are three elements that create this shield: work and good pay; housing; the availability of services for children. This bill is called 500+, and I'm saying it's 500-- The downside is that you're gonna have to use these resources. The Minister confirmed this. Return VAT to the fiscal, from 5% to 23%, which means it will no longer be 500 PLN. Goldilocks went down by 8%, which is another 8%. ... System support. consent, I do not call it into question It's either 2% or 1.5%. Depends on what year it is. That's negative. Above all, this law, by stating that you can have any amount, does not impose any obligation, gives you freedom, and at the same time a regime, according to which parents in obvious and fundamental matters, from which you cannot escape, will have to, as they do today, for this extra money... Like your teacher said here, running to tour companies, looking for tutoring... The amounts for all of this are the amounts charged to VAT. Maybe parents can buy more comfortable shoes and stuff. This law of the rich already rich It is not enough that they are rich, it is added to them, I do not know, 2 thousand zlotys. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to overturn this bill. I would just like to take action within this seminar to ensure that this law, if it seems right to us today, has an alternative tomorrow. And that's why I'm proposing an alternative program, which I call Troska 500+, and it's about the state's concern for the family. The program contains 9 elements and 1 general assumption. I take it this is going to be the 17 billion this year and the 23 billion in the following years, and that the limit will be not 18 years, but 24 years. I assume it'll be about 500 zlotys per child. Well, that's 500 zlotys, that's a mistake of this bill, because it can't be the same for a three-year-old, 18-year-old and a student. Don't forget, fellas, you've extended the baby. Staying at school, at a school that should be completed. I don't think anybody's gonna stop studying in high school when they're 18. Thanks to your intervention, the education system will include 19-year-olds, at a tech school or at another school. 22-year-olds and more in college. [[Mr. Senator, time.]] [[Long-term youth.]] I'm offering nine benefits here. Last sentence, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u245	Mr. Senator, no, not now, I won't. At most, you'll sign up for the discussion once more. 'Cause there's a lot of people saved. [[Good. I accept your terms. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, senator. Now, please... [[But take this board. Mrs. Marshal...]] [[I think you guys are gonna be doing stitches.]] Mr. Senator, take that board away. And I invite Senator Marek Borowski. [[Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, the head of the Vice-Marshal, promised me that we would be able to ask questions to the Ombudsman of the rights of the child.]] Mr. Marshal... Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, we're having a discussion right now. Please take the floor of Senator Borowski. You're welcome. Please, Mr. Marshal. [[The voice from the room: I thought it would be possible to ask questions, but...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: In the matter of formal...]] [[Mr. Marshal, it's better to get along with you...]] Excuse me, gentlemen senators, we're having a discussion right now. You're welcome, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm aware of that. And this isn't my first speech on the various laws that the Senate has recently sneaked through. That it is an occurrence of a kind of calling in the wilderness. Every time such laws appeared in the Senate, there was an immediate request to accept them without any amendments, it was an arrogance, but I accept it. In this regard, of course, it is clear that no amendments will be accepted, but it is not possible to remain silent either, because silence would mean some form of consent to the solutions that have been adopted here. First of all, all the statements that people are waiting for them to be worried about coming to offices, etc., etc., etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if the government wants to give 500 zlotys for almost every child, Or maybe half the kids, more specifically, it's known that people are waiting for this. And it doesn't matter what the proposal to give something will be, of course, everyone will be waiting, so let's not use this argument. We're in Parliament so that every proposal that we make is that we give something, we think about whether we can afford it or not. First of all, the objectives we want to achieve; and whether the form we are using will actually enable these objectives to be achieved. First, whether, in general, the idea of directing budget resources to children-oriented families is appropriate. In general, yes. I had the opportunity to write a big article two years ago, published in the Wyborcza Gazeta about Polish social policy. I pointed out in it that Polish social policy is generally not wasteful, contrary to various stories, and in matters of family policy it is even modest. Since then, a number of things have been passed on the plus side, but of course this policy is still modest, so some movement in this direction is certainly deliberate. The proposal to issue PLN 17 billion this year and PLN 22 Next year, it is a very serious proposal. And the questions that have been raised here with regard to how this proposal will be financed next year are entirely valid, ladies and gentlemen. I am directing this question primarily to the Senators of Law and Justice, because this country will be responsible, I think, for four years, for the state's finances and for what we will not be able to spend our money on in the following years. Because in my opinion, the question whether the programme will be financed next year is a false question. He will be financed next year and the next year and the next year and the next year. I don't think anyone's gonna take that money back. The only question is, at what cost he'll be financed. So what are we not spending our money on, where we're not gonna increase our expenses? That's the problem. With regard to the financing of the programme this year, it is the fact that two taxes are being introduced, we know which ones: credit and trade are not yet available, but I assume it will be. The government states that it hopes to obtain PLN 7.5 billion from them. And the second item is to increase the budget deficit. We will discuss the budget next week, there is PLN 55 billion deficit. We had a discussion here, you remember, about the revision of the budget for the previous year. I was standing here, on this platform, and I was asking why this amendment was going on. And, of course, you'll find out in a moment. The deficit is set at 50 billion, and now Minister Shamacha says he's going to be under 47 billion, although he doesn't say exactly what he's going to be. I'm saying he'll be more or less the way he was supposed to be. So we have an increase in the deficit by 9 billion. 9 billion deficits and 7.5 billion taxes are 16.5 billion, so we've got about 500+ funded this year. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in this way it is impossible to act in the longer term, it is impossible to impose new taxes on a permanent basis, to increase deficits, etc. And next year, we're gonna need 23 billion. What about the revision of PIT law, a free amount that costs 20 billion? What about reducing the retirement age, which will gradually cost more and more, at least a few billion beginnings? And what about medicines for pensioners over the age of seventy-five, where the amount is smaller, because it's supposed to be 500 million a year, but that also counts? [[Exactly.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, there is no serious answer to this question. Actually, there's one answer. The answer is, we're sealing the tax system. Not yet this year, because this year has no impact, it comes from the budget, but next year we will already have positive results. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that as the deficit will no longer be increased, the LTE revenues will not be, only the tax of 7.5 billion of these two sources will remain, we will need about 16 billion zlotys to get more than 23 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, within one year, VAT is not sealed so as to obtain PLN 16 billion. It's completely impossible. I don't know if you can seal it at all so you can get 16 billion in some meaningful perspective, but certainly not in a year. That's why I think this program has been... He had an electoral character, no one counted it exactly. Anyway, I don't know what was in the PiS campaign at the time, so to speak, the calculations when it was announced. There's no denying that the Prime Minister was talking about 500 PLN per child. No one's gonna hide it anymore. [[No, Mr. Marshal...]] That's what she said... [[She didn't say that.]] [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] [[She didn't say. You should have read it.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there's evidence in this case, visual evidence, recordings... [[Voice from the room: It's the journalists' fault.]] ...which were presented, so let's not argue. That's what the Prime Minister said. Meanwhile, Minister Rafalska says: but in the program it says that for every other child and every child. I'm so sorry, but 95%. Poles don't read any programs, they listen to what leaders say. And that's what the leader said. After the election, when the power was taken over, it soon became clear that this was unenforceable. So we're walking away from this, we're doing a different option. It's all caused a mess. Now: is this programme social or is this programme demographic? Well, I hear from some that it will work very well socially, from others that it is mainly about demographics. As far as social issues are concerned, please, this programme has, of course, social elements. The introduction of amounts of 800 PLN and 1 thousand 200 PLN is a social element. But no one can explain to me why a single mother with a minimum wage and one child won't get a penny. There's no explanation for that. Of course, a zloty for a zloty would be a solution here. What do we hear? We hear it can't be introduced, because it would cost me some data that was provided by the government. From 1.5 billion to 2 billion. I would like to ask you to obtain these 1,5,2 billions, it would suffice to reduce the amount of PLN 500 to PLN 460,470. Then we'd have 1.5 and a billion zlotys and this problem would disappear, and that's an important problem. So you can see that all this was done by mistake, and those comments that were reported were, so to speak, dismissed, because we are in a hurry, because we need to submit it as soon as possible, because people should know that the Law and Justice are fulfilling their electoral promises. This is a serious mistake. Now it's a high-income case. It's said that at 5,000, almost no one will be turned off. At 3,000 it's already 200 with something of millions. But, ladies and gentlemen, the average income per family member in Poland is PLN 1 thousand 343. Therefore, the threshold could be set at PLN 2 000 per family member and also with the principle of gold for gold, of course, when overstepping... And then it would turn out that it's more money. No, not that it's enough for every kid... [[Mr. Senator, time is running out.]] Yes, sir. But certainly the social element would be here to win and there wouldn't be any discussion why people who make a lot of money get extra money, and a single mother or a single father with a child earning a minimum wage don't get anything. And those calls, which unfortunately our marshal also made. I'm sorry about that. Did Prime Minister Morawiecki not take the rich... But I'm sorry. Who's rich? Why does a man have to determine whether he is rich or not? Either you set a threshold, or you say, everybody gets it. So... [[Senator, you're welcome to leave.]] ...social element... I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. The social element exists here, but unfortunately it is inconsistent and part of the money simply goes to the wrong place. I'm going to talk about the demographic element in the second part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u247	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! Ah, ministers! Excuse me, Mr. Spokesman. It is impossible to disagree with what Marshal Borowski said just now, because the way in which this law is dealt with raises serious concern and opposition. Well, it's really disrespectful. also for us, for the whole House. If you want to bring us to the express voting machine, and if that's the role for the Senators of the PiS, I really congratulate you. But we shouldn't agree to that, in solidarity, all of us. This is a small request for us to have 3 days and in normal mode, in normal time, to proceed, to get acquainted with a 50-page study, which has an even more extensive justification. We should have time for this. Someone's gonna say you should've been interested before. We were interested, but during the work there were so many different changes that it took time to prepare ourselves for our procession. I really believe that this is yet another expression of arrogance, of disregarding the voices of others, as can be seen in treating the voice of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, in treating the voice of the Chief Data Protection Officer and in the absence of any opinion, including the written opinion of the Legislative Office. Ladies and gentlemen, we, as the Civic Platform, are not against this program. It can be said that in this twenty-five years of rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL, I will stress this because this resort was in the hands of the people. It was the best time in family politics. But was it enough? Was he successful? Definitely not. And you had to move on. You're trying to take that step. I welcome the voice of Minister Marczuk and the Minister who appreciate what has been done before. And there was really a lot of that: and with regard to daycare, and with regard to kindergartens, and with regard to annual parental leave, and with regard to tax relief. This could be mentioned even more, for example, the "Milch" programme, the "Salary Care Act," the "Children's Care Act" up to the age of 3. We tried. The effect was small, in demography small. There was an increase, and then it turned out to be a little less. Turns out you need new impulses. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of such a new impulse, but for political reasons we remind you that this impulse in your edition was to be 500 PLN per child. There's videos, there's a candidate's statement for the premiere who swore... I myself met on the streets people with posters of 500 PLN per child. It was part of the campaign. There were flyers and posters. There's nothing to deny. That's what happened. We are talking about this not only because we want to say politically I am checking, although we want to. In politics, honesty and integrity, especially when it comes to playing social affairs, is a priority issue. You'll say you said you couldn't do it because there's no money. Except we're not referring to our program here, we're referring to yours, and you're saying there's money and there's gonna be more and more of them. Your leader even flew so far that he found nearly a trillion zlotys in space for investments. And this is supposed to be an investment. We say we want to help and at the same time we check. We also say 500 PLN for each child, because we believe that the exclusion from this program of half of children and half of families is absolutely unacceptable. The Minister said that the effectiveness of giving money to the first child might be less, but we agree that all such research is largely burdened with various errors. Once scientists show that such activities in the field of increasing childhood, i.e. financial support for families, help, other times show that they do not help. We don't know exactly what's going to happen. The Minister said here that it is a kind of experiment that we will try to use such a word, the word we will try, because we do not know how it will be, we do not know what the effect will be. So let's try to include all the children in the program. Nor can we agree that in two years, between the ages of 16 and 18, the disabled are lightly injured. We cannot agree that if you do not accept the principle that money is granted for all children, the principle of gold for gold cannot be introduced. We want to help, and we want to check, which is why we're making amendments. We hope that they will be well considered. They are the basis of our draft law, which we will soon want to submit so that this program can be improved. Ladies and gentlemen, what are these amendments about? The first group of amendments concerns the inclusion of all children in the programme. However, the second group of amendments raises the issue of settlement of 2% from such amounts, which is a lot. We believe that ZUS, which reaches over 7 million pensioners, will certainly manage to serve the program, especially to the company from KRUS. This would not be a problem, especially if we lifted the income threshold. Then there wouldn't be so much work with all this. Operating costs would fall to 0.2%. There's something to fight for because we know that the ZUS, with all our complaints, is relatively cheap. Of course, we also want to fight to ensure that children in institutional foster care are not affected. I know the argument used here is that they already receive support because they are in institutions, that the state already supports them. It's true. But if I imagine that someone wealthy, with 3,000 zlotys per person in the family, including a child, is going to get 500 zlotys, and a child who is in foster care is not going to get that money... Where is it going to raise money? When often there is no family To sort of set up in life to buy the first apartment, etc.? This absolutely needs to be fixed. As part of our amendments, we would also like to fight for the principle of gold for gold. That's what Marshal Borowski was talking about. There's been a lot of talk about it. It is clear that it would be far more fair if we could not afford to have any child involved. And one more amendment that concerns our House. Minister Marczuk at the committee meeting said that about a year later we would know how this would work. Then why are the Sejm and the Senate to take care of it after two years? Let's do this a year earlier, take a look at it and think together about how to assemble a multi-purpose program... The Minister here promised that we would continue to work on other elements that we are still talking about here. Senator Rooster keeps asking: when are the apartments, what about these apartments, where are the stimulants? This is undoubtedly very important, perhaps even a first-time thing. We will work together, we will help, but for this we need reliable data and we should know them at least a year earlier, and since they will, there is no obstacle to doing so. I also make amendments proposed by the Legislative Office, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that the reliability of our work requires that we release good laws from here. Really, three days here isn't gonna change anything, and we can take each other seriously, we can improve this program. I hope he has a chance... Finally, I would like to say to you... [[Time's up.]] Just one last sentence, recapitulative. [[Good.]] Of course, we shouldn't have any illusions about this program. He's probably gonna do something. I don't know the research that says that a significant increase in financial benefits doesn't work, but all the research shows that not as much as we'd expect, and we've heard that from this lecturer the numbers were: 240 thousand in 10 years, so 24 thousand a year... [[Time, Mr. Senator...]] $24,000 for $23 million... [[Voice from the room: Billions.]] 23 billion. So it's almost a million per person. It's an expensive program. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u249	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u250	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker basically said everything about the amendments, but I'm gonna talk about it later. The Minister answered all our questions very bravely here. She said, among other things, that this bill is groundbreaking, and I think that the breakthrough really took place in 2007. I want to remind you because maybe you don't all remember, and people listen to us... In 2007, when the government took over the Platform and the PSL, there was a major breakthrough. And so, the aid under the scheme is based on the number of children. Another example: a thousand zlotys per child, not until the age of eighteen, but for people working on a civil law contract, students, students or farmers. The platform introduced a paid annual parental leave for 52 weeks of paid leave, which can be divided between both parents. Granting the employment of nannies The government pays ZUS contributions for parents up to the minimum wage level. State support in the uprising of crèches. In 2007 we had 373 crèches, until 2015 1 thousand 789. Tax relief for families of many children, one child s 1 thousand 112 zł, fifthly it is already 9 thousand 624 zł. Big Family Card By 2015, a million two hundred discount cards were issued in 10 thousand places throughout Poland. Free Children's Manuals In 2015/16 alone, almost 2 million children benefited from free textbooks. Kindergartens for Gold From 2013 all classes going beyond a certain period of free teaching cost not more than 1 PLN. State support in the formation of kindergartens In 8 years, the number of preschool children increased from 498 000 to almost 1 million children. And it's true that most of the programs you voted for here in the Senate, along with us. Extension of parental leave, gold for gold Today this is a problem for you, and here is a really very good amendment, which has just been tabled a large family card... They were all for it. Work for young people all in favor. Yeah, but about $1,000 a kid... Let's see who voted. Because there were 28 people against it. Why then did those who are in the Chamber today vote against? Tonight they'll probably vote in favour. Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk voted against. Henryk Cioch, Grzegorz Czelej, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Mieczysław Gil, Stanisław Gogacz, Stanisław Kogut... Well, dear Senator Stanislav... [[Maybe he made a mistake.]] ...the senator was against it? Was the senator against it? ...Etc., etc. Senator Andrzej Spider, Bogdan Pak... [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] What a senior. Of these 28 people, almost everyone is still senators today. And you voted against. I don't know why. I don't know if it's a better option. On which the discussion has been taking place for several years It's not like giving away 500 zlotys to anyone who has two kids... And it's actually 250 zł, because if there's a family and there's two kids, it's not gonna be that one kid gets better and gets e.g. additional English lessons, and the other one won't get. It's gonna be $250 a kid. Is it not better, for example, to abolish or reduce VAT on children's clothes, on all kinds of teaching services? Isn't that the way to encourage young families today to have children? Wouldn't it be better not to give people money because it's clearly... I have a statement here, too. If I have enough time, I'll talk about her. A few professors from well-known universities who claim that this 500 PLN will in no way affect childhood, but on the contrary: people who calculate that they are little short of getting this amount will simply give up their job. Especially those who work for the lowest national. I am surprised and waiting for the first year of this program That GDP... According to estimates, I don't know who was counting, I hope you're not Minister Morawiecki. I know him, and I know he counted well when he was working at the bank, and I think he's gonna count well at the ministry right now. It is estimated that GDP will increase by 0.5%. If that were to be true, why give 500 zlotys? Let's just give us $5,000 for every kid right now. GDP will increase by 5% if we add this to the current 3.2%, it will be over 8% GDP. Poland is at the forefront. We're gonna be a country where no one has to work. Let's just give big money to the kids. It is also a great question to me that there are calculations according to which this programme will improve fertility. How do we explain this in a logical way today? What do you even call it? Can we use such words that for 500 PLN we buy that parents will decide to have a child? I think the better way was what the Minister blocked, so for example, an in vitro method. I think it was a good step for those who are actually trying to have a baby, and they're not forced to do that by, for example, poverty or other factors that condition... And if you want a lot of children to be born, then, Minister, the easiest way to stop it, prohibit the use of contraceptives, prohibit their sale in pharmacies. I think... [[That's not appropriate, Senator.]] ...that this will have a significant impact on... You can turn out the light before... I think then the children will be born really, really, really much... [[Mr. Senator, he's not fit.]] [[Such typical cynicism, typical for Platform cynicism.]] [[A little decency.]] [[Quiet, please, Senator. Get to the point, please.]] I would also like to inform you that today the Civic Platform has sent a letter to President Duda to examine our amendments that have just been tabled, good amendments that do not divide children into first, second, third, fifth, nor do they divide people into those who have less money or more... I think those who have more deserved it too, no one should take it away from them. And if they deserved it by hard work or by more influence on the state budget, they can't be taken away either... [[It's hard work, Mr. Senator, hard-earned money...]] ...the possibility of using programs that are for all citizens, because the constitution gives us equality. You can't lift... Because it's really not pretty, it's the kind of translation that some people translate into and show themselves in the media: if this one takes it, it's gonna get embarrassed, and if this one doesn't take it, it's gonna be OK. And then there'll be black letters... I think we're a little grown up for all this. Time? [[Yeah, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u251	Thank you, Senator. You may speak to Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to begin my speech with the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who spoke in the Sejm on the occasion of the vote on the bill on helping the family raise children. She said it was a very important day for Polish families. Poland joins all those countries who know that a smart pro-family policy is a matter of the state of every nation. The Prime Minister further noted that it was an ambitious programme, which was not yet in Poland. She said: "We don't want to be stuck in a dream that has been maintained for 8 years, we want ambitious programs for Poland. And further: If we do not take up this challenge, if we are not brave enough to introduce such projects, Poland will be dying all the time. We are introducing a program that will give Polish families the opportunity to really live a decent life, said the Prime Minister. In fact, everything in these words is said, especially that this program is intended to improve the fertility of Polish families. That's his priority. Let me remind you that almost 53% of families today are families with one child. Why don't they have any more kids? Or do they not want them? I do not think they decide to enlarge their family for many reasons: not to worsen their already weak financial condition, fear of losing their jobs, because of lack of housing, etc. That's why I'm going to add it right here. In the future, further elements of family policy will have to be adopted, including, for example, change the labour market so that it is more friendly to mothers raising children. And with reference to the present law, I'll tell the media about it already. Its success is the declaration of Poles who want to have more children than they do today. I would like to refer to some of the criticisms of the opposition, which have nothing to do with the purpose of this law. The most important criticism we've heard here, too: "Where's the money from? You're still in debt, instead of thinking about the future. We are thinking about the future, we are thinking about the future, so that in 20 years there will be no more pensioners in Poland than the rest of Poles. Second charge. The fact that this law is important bears witness to a kind of hucpa in the Sejm, which the opposition held, especially the Civic Platform. Anyway, we hear it here and there. First, we were criticized that the state budget could not afford such a programme of helping families, and now we hear that the Platform will fight for the benefit of all children. I personally sign with both hands under such a request, hoping that the money will come from, for example. from the settlement of scandals under the rule of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] The thing that really hurt me most was talking about election fraud and lying. That's what the Sejm used to say. Did this fraud happen? The Poles themselves will judge. So far, the witness promised by the Law and Justice enjoys great social support, which means we already have an answer, confirming that this law is wise, right and necessary. It is a pity that politicians from the former government coalition have not come up with the idea of implementing a similar program for eight years. I do not hide that, as Senator Dowhan said here, the Platform of PSL has its merits for the family, even the introduction of annual maternity leave, as well as other elements calculated here. But at the same time, we could begin to calculate those elements that completely expose a certain programmed lack of power, even if this is a rise in VAT from 7% to 23% on children's clothes. In fact, it was an anti-family scandal to maintain a very low income criterion over the years, which deprived thousands of families of small social benefits. In order not to be literal, I will state that in 2008 3 million 800 000 children received family benefits, a year later 500 000 fewer, another 300,000 children fell out of the system in 2010, with nearly 2 million children lost their social benefits over 8 years of government. That's how the Civic Platform was pro-family. In addition, the Citizen Platform and PSL report of the Supreme Audit Chamber was crushing, in which it was stated that there is no comprehensive and strategic planning for family activities in Poland. So there were just these droplets in the sea of needs that the senator was calculating here, but it all consisted of a lack of forward-looking, forward-looking thinking. I have the impression that the opposition is very painful that the 500+ family programme has already proven to be a great success of the current power and will certainly become a nail in your coffin, to put it so graphically. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear, no...]] This program will last for years, and the opposition, if it starts promising gold mountains at the moment, will not be able to vote it out, in this case 500 PLN per child. Anyway, as the proverb says, it's not about the mountains we stumble, it's about the anthills, that's about the little things. Ladies and gentlemen, the 500+ programme is simple, it really helps families, it is a programme resulting from great calculations, deductions, settlements, it is politically and economically brilliant. This simplicity can be seen in the fact that 500 PLN per child will not be included in the income of the family in determining the right to other benefits, e.g. with social assistance, with the Asylum Fund, family benefits or housing allowances and others. Everything brilliant is basically simple. For the average Polish family, it is not so important whether we are a green island that we are successful in building roads, highways, or eagles. In other words, they are not interested in the flooded asphalt or concrete. For the Polish family, such an average, the most important thing will happen at the moment this stream in the form of money going straight into their pockets. Modern Members have accused the government of mismanagement, the creation of a welfare state, and the Kukiz club of 15 fish distribution instead of offering fishing rods. Let me put it this way: the state should take care in various ways to improve the situation of families, and today it is particularly about increasing children's lives, but above all, the state should participate in the costs of raising children and their parents' education. And that's the cloud of this program. To conclude, I would like to quote the words of Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki from the interview in Polsat News. The day on which law 500+ was adopted is a family celebration. And the question is whether it would be better to spend this money on nursery, kindergarten, relief, on all the elements that Senator Dowhan has calculated here, and not the benefits paid in hand, he replied: "Such votes about tax deduction make me laugh a little, because from a budget point of view there is no big difference whether we deduct from the tax or pay for the child. It insults the basic principle of mathematics. The 500+ programme is an absolutely historic project to break the demographic crisis, said the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy in the Sejm, Elżbieta Rafalska. Addressing the opposition, the Minister said: "For the first time after 1989, we proposed a program that you, the opposition, did not dream of at all. And in response to the allegations made by Sławomir Neumann, who called Prime Minister Beata Szydło a liar, she wrote: "Polish families will not forget this hypocrisy and hypocrisy." I add from myself with hope: this project is only the beginning of a coherent and strategic family policy of Law and Justice. The beginning, as you can see, is very good for the family. Keep up the good work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u253	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak to Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to express my view of this bill, but from a slightly different perspective than the senator. The pre- and post-Christmas period is such a time when a lot of meetings are held, especially in the electoral regions, and the parties that I represent here are the bourgeois region, not sinning with excess wealth, very modest and unfortunately deprived of youth. So many young people have left, some towns are in decline. But to the point. Well, the discussions, the discussions during these meetings showed one thing: that my constituents are in favour of the bill that we are discussing today. And they convinced me to do that, which is why I can declare that, in fulfilling my duty, I will vote in favour of this law. I would like to draw your attention to a few things that are connected with this bill. I'd love to. I'm addressing the Minister here. In order to look at the problem a little wider, because this law is a demographic law in principle, it is intended to support the demographic changes that we would expect. I think that she should be one of the changes that we should pursue, and we should also strive to improve the labour market situation in Poland. Yes, there may be more children, but then, after they've been educated, what we put the money on, we should make sure that there are jobs. And it's extremely important. In order to achieve such a thing, we should expect a series of laws that would lead to it, and this one we are discussing today as a starting point. Next case. I'm a mathematician by profession, and I like it when I have something specific at hand, something closer to the data. Looking at this problem, I asked my employees to prepare me data on the so-called. the function of extinction of the human population, data as far as possible. Turns out that's the data. They are available to Wrocław, which was a special place in the history of insurance statistics. They concern the 17th century. Wrocław was the first place that such data was developed. And here's the interesting thing: births were recorded there as early as two weeks after the fact. Even in England, it wasn't because births were reported there after about three months or even a few years. And there were studies on the extinction of the human population. The most interesting of the studies that I received from my employees said this: the function of density of age distribution of the human population at present, which we have, coincides with, let's say, from the third, fourth to fifty years of age with the same function performed for Wrocław in the year one thousand six hundred seventy to one by actually mathematician, but known as astronomer, Halley. When I was shown such a complete study with statistical parameters, then, I must say, I was terrified because it showed something that is a very unusual phenomenon, and at that time it was associated with the occurrence of diseases such as plague, cholera, etc., when the human population was very quickly reduced at the age of 30. With us right now, we're explaining something. And, of course, that's a fact. The fact that so many young people are leaving. That's about the same effect as those severe diseases that were then sweeping the human population in huge numbers. Hence the conclusion that we really need to do everything, starting with the adoption of this law, so that this population extinction distribution curve at present is a typical curve that shows a healthy economy, a certain health of the economic system. I think it's very serious. This law can be treated by us as a starting point for changes that are necessary. If there are no further laws, then someone will be able to say, well, so you host, that your population is declining as during the great epidemics. In order not to do so, we should take various steps together to improve our situation precisely as regards the age distribution in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I request that the law on State aid in raising children be deleted. 38, introducing a provision concerning entities considered to be a single controller of personal data. Such a concept of data controller in the existing legal system will become inconclusively identifiable. Leaving this article in this form violates the rules for the processing of personal data, introduces for the controller a new, illegal definition, a definition that can often prevent the identification of the person responsible for personal data. I would add that the deletion of this article does not alter the substance of the law and leaves the issue of personal data in a form consistent with their understanding so far. This problem has been reported by the General Data Protection Officer. Unfortunately, the proposal was not taken by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would also add that the representatives of the Ministry do not question the fact that Article. 38 is controversial, but they propose that the solution be left for a later period and use the two-year vacathio legis that the European Union gives to the EU countries to adapt national law to Union law. However, when the article raises such clear reservations and its deletion does not change the shape of the law, I see no reason why this problem should not be resolved immediately and not accept a record which is known to be incompatible with the existing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, it can be said that the programme that we are talking about today is a social programme, a very expensive and poorly addressed programme. Of course, it should be addressed to young people, because they need safety, stability, work and they should decide on the first child, and in my opinion the first child is more important than the next children, because if we do not encourage the first child, it is difficult for the next children to be later. Ladies and gentlemen, what do these young people get in return? Well, the Constitutional Court Act, the Police Act, the D.A.'s office, the media, what we've been doing so far... How young people perceive it, looking at us, looking at the situation of Poland, at investors 'Cause they're watching, watching Poland, watching the country, what it looks like... And how is this about growth, about GDP due to these changes? Ladies and gentlemen, rigid spending is a sham of the budget, and we're adding another stiff expenditure of 17 billion, then 23 billion in the years to come. For example, the revenue of the state budget in 2016, in accordance with the Budget Act... Corporate tax on all companies in Poland collects corporate tax So in CIT we collect 26 billion zlotys. How much do we have to spend on this bill? 23 billion. So all entrepreneurs in Poland will work on this bill. Now the expenses. Ladies and gentlemen, in the voivodeship budget, the remaining activity is 15 billion 355 thousand, and in the special reserve is 1 billion 700 million, which together gives 17 billion with pennies. That's the voivodeship budget. And now this program needs service. I asked the Minister what happened with the staff. We have municipalities, marshals, voivodeships and probably SKOs, because the municipal college of appeals will probably have to make more decisions as well. What is the situation, what is the task of the commune? We have learned today that the municipalities themselves will have to search, search, select, charge, make decisions and take responsibility for this. It falls on the commune a very serious task. I don't know about the 2%, 3%. or 1,5% Because this life will show whether these funds are enough for the municipalities or not. However, we can easily count that one employee is to make 420 decisions, as the Minister said. You can imagine what it's gonna look like in small towns. Example: small community, 10,000. 10% That's a thousand people, times 5,000... If we multiply all of this, we'll see that the job is barely two jobs. But in big cities there will be a problem, because you will need 70, 100 employees to hire, train, prepare. Besides, you'll have to find a seat, etc. And all this is to be done instantly, ready in a month. This is, of course, unrealistic, and we will be discussing this in a moment. I asked the Minister for control. It's a government job and someone has to control it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we know who the voivodship services will control. Take an example of one of the voivodships, my voivodship. The voivodship's budget has been at 2 billion so far, and now it's going to be 3.5 billion, or 1.5 billion more. 75% the budget in the budget of the voivodship covers heading 852 75% voivodship budget It's today, after we added it, social services. So let us remember what this situation is like. And we have this great task of 17 or 20 billion to control. Who's gonna control what kind of money he's gonna get? I know the situation from the other side, and I know what it's like to work in a local government, what it's like to work in a voivodeship, and who's gonna do it. I repeat, it's unmanageable. This is what money, money and, above all, time are needed for. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very simple and clear proposal for you what should be done. In my opinion, the bill should be amended and the bill thrown in the trash. I would offer you a very simple solution. Let's count: 500 zł times 12 months is 6,000, and 6,000 times 18 years is 108 thousand. Some families have two, three children. Let's add this and we'll have e.g. $200,000. I ask you to encourage young people to get married and get married... in the Constitution we have written that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. We all want to make more of these marriages so that more babies can be born. My proposal is very simple: the money I've calculated is enough... We'll encourage young people to do that if we give them 200,000 zlotys to live in shape, I don't know, some kind of bonus or something. Single, 2 rooms or 3 rooms for this money, for this 200 thousand PLN. They're gonna have an apartment at the entrance anyway. What's that gonna encourage them to do? To make... the first condition: marriage, in accordance with the constitution. Second condition: child. There's gonna be a marriage, there's gonna be a baby, there's gonna be money. And they won't have to wait many, many years. Not much, under no circumstances will GDP increase by the 0.5 that we were talking about... This example was very nice. Why 500? Let's give 1 thousand zlotys, then it's not going to increase by 0.5%. That's not true. Nothing like that is going to happen. In this case, we will shoot the economics in construction, because construction materials, VAT, CIT, etc... Let's just give them an apartment. Every young couple that has a baby will get an apartment as a gift from you. It's gonna cost the same, and I'm pretty sure that there's gonna be way more babies than the estimated thousands. And above all, it will be decided. Because the most important thing is the decision about the first child. There's another consequence... Because if I have conditions to raise one kid, I'm gonna choose another. So the first one wasn't an only child, had a sister or a brother, so they could play together, go to kindergarten... I'm offering you what I said. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u259	Thank you, Senator. Senator Mikołajczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u260	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'll start with the VAT issue. Mr. Senator Rulewski, you were talking about VAT, about him coming back. Meanwhile, it has already been recalled here who raised VAT on children's articles from 8 to 23% The PO-PSL government. [[It is a requirement of the European Union.]] Get to the point. One of the most famous philosophers of ancient Greece, Aristotle, pointed to the primacy of the family in relation to the state. The family, combined with other families, forms a rural community or a city, and these only form a country in combination with each other. The family is the first community to appear in human history before the state was established. It is therefore the responsibility of the State to disturb it as little as possible and to support it as much as possible through appropriate pro-family policies. It is sad that there has not been a comprehensive pro-family policy in Poland, that there have been no significant pro-family solutions over the last eight years, and that politicians from other groups criticize this program and have not taken care of such significant family support. I am very pleased that the Law on State Aid to Raising Children will come into force. For several years working in educational institutions I saw problems of Polish families and listened about their difficulties. For the first time after 1989, a comprehensive programme supporting Polish families will be implemented in Poland. The people of my constituency often ask about this project and its details. They are very pleased that Law and Justice will take care of Polish families so much. Ladies and gentlemen, Saint John Paul II at the Jasna Gora roll call on 5 June 1979 said: "We know that the family is the first and basic human community. It is the environment of life and the environment of love. The life of entire societies, nations, countries and the Church depends on whether the family is a real environment of life and an environment of love among them. There is much to do. It doesn't mean much: to do everything you can to create conditions for your family. Working conditions, living conditions, living conditions, caring for the beginning of life, respect for social parenting, joy of children who come into the world, full right to upbringing and at the same time many help in this upbringing. Here's a whole big rich program that depends on the future of man and the future of the nation. Dear Ladies and gentlemen, the fertility rate in Poland is at the moment 1.3 - generation replacement guarantees the level of 2.2 - which puts us on the site of 212 in 224 countries around the world. Unfortunately, we are dying at an alarming rate, as soon as possible in Europe. The consequences of having fewer and fewer children are not only the demographic change of society. There are more and more older people in need of special care. In the long term, we are facing a slowdown in economic growth and a breakdown in the labour market and the pension system. Although the demographic situation in Poland is dramatic, the state has not developed a comprehensive long-term family policy. The activities carried out shall be ad hoc and uncoordinated. It is not even known whether they are effective. Such conclusions were drawn up by the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2015 following the monitoring of family policy coordination. The inspection lasted a year. The House has examined 40 actions by the State and six ministries involved, including: work, finance and education. In 2012 your support for the family was a priority in the Multiannual Financial Plan. However, it stopped being the Year of the Family a year later, even though it was declared the Year of the Family. According to NIK, this was the result of the lack of coordination and comprehensive planning of actions. Is lowering the fertility rate in Poland irreversible? Examples of other countries show that this does not have to be the case. Okay, comprehensive pro-family policy can reverse that. An excellent example here is France boasting the best family policy in Europe. France belongs to an elite, very narrow group of European countries with a fertility rate guaranteeing generation replacement. The payment of a certain amount of money for the second and the next child is quite common in Europe. This is an element of social solidarity with parents who put a lot of effort into raising more children. Society should be solidarity with them, because it is these children who will ensure the continuity of the nation. This type of action is not only undertaken by countries richer than us. In 20 out of the 28 EU countries, child benefits are granted to parents regardless of their income. The Family of 500+. is the beginning of good changes in pro-family policy. It's supposed to be a chance to increase childhood. In Poland it is so likely that Poles want to have more children than they do, but they do not allow them to do so in material terms. The number of Polish children born on the British Isles can also indirectly testify to this. The government doesn't want to stop on the 500+ family programme alone. Other programmes are to be set up in the future. This is to be a comprehensive project of support for Polish families. However, this is not just about financial activities. No less important are changes in mentality, the perception of families of many children. It is also about not stigmatizing mothers who want to stay home with their children for a while, about providing working women with work comfort, for example. flexible working time or the ability to perform certain tasks at home, and above all about eliminating the fear that after the birth of the child you cannot return to your old job. In many environments, the question is whether Poland can afford such a pro-family policy. It is certain that Poland cannot afford not to introduce such a policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll start with a few references to Senator Mikołajczyk's speech. When we joined the Union... the elements of joining the Union were good things and bad things. It is not that when you join a project, you only get good things, which some people dream of. You also take bad things. So we don't just put up our own flag. Sometimes it would be good to put out the flag of the European Union. This is the evil that annoys you. [[Applause]] What I'm saying is that's what happened to VAT. It's not like we picked him up because we don't like kids. VAT has been raised for well-known reasons related to Union law. In a moment, Mr. Senator, we will be adopting the 2016 budget. Nothing prevents you from establishing something you talked about in the election campaign that VAT on clothes and other things will be, for example. zero. That's one thing. Secondly, today we asked about 800,000 starving children. I would like to say that Senator Kleina and I will apply for an increase in the amount of money to feed the children. Well, you just have to be consistent with what you declare. Back to the draft law, I would like to say what was going on in the debate with the Minister. I am pleased that the debate in the Senate has a different dimension, in terms of quality, than in our beloved Sejm. We are arguing on fundamental issues here, but I think we agree that good state policy is also, and perhaps above all, a policy where you spend a lot of money on investment, including investment in your family. And don't make us bid here: you didn't do enough, and you're gonna do the wrong thing. What I'm saying is we've done as much as we can. There's probably more to be done. We did most of all what the state budget could afford. I think you're proposing something, as you say, groundbreaking. It's something that gives you a lot to think about. So maybe it's worth putting the ranks together and saying, "Yes, let's take this big step." I'll just remind you, ladies and gentlemen... When I'm reading data on the size of social policy spending in relation to GDP, because this is a link, I see that we have a lot to do here compared to countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Norway. Let me say this: in 2012 this ratio of the amount allocated to this important sphere of development of the Republic of Poland compared to GDP was 20.4%. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, can I have a little... [[Quiet, please.]] The British spend 23.9% We are still a little short, and this element of the increase you are proposing will bring us closer to the European average. I'm not talking about the countries of the former Eastern Block, because I want to say that we are the leaders here. Let's not be ashamed that we've done some cool things in this field for 25 years. I would like to say that if you do not go through the throat, that also the Civic Platform with PSL participated in this, then say that we did it, we as Poles, we as Polish Parliament. And now what you're proposing. As Senator Mikołajczyk said here, a stable and lasting family this is one of the most durable elements of the state, therefore it is worth investing in it. The effects of this investment do not come as quickly as in the case of road building, but in the long-term it has a significant effect. Ladies and gentlemen, what's important? If today is going to be 17 billion, next year 24 billion, with the problems that Senator Borowski was talking about in terms of budget, we have to ask ourselves whether we are using all the elements relating to the management of such a project. I want to tell you that there is a country called Greece. The Greeks did this thing 15 years ago. Why shouldn't Greek children have 100 euros of funding? They've decided. 100 euro per child, including a mechanism to reduce the retirement age, payment for not being late for work, etc., i.e. they were invested in the family. [[And everyone liked it.]] Yeah, and everybody liked it. But if you look at the statistics on these families today, their sense of financial stability, because it's important too, it turns out that no one dreams of repeating this scenario anymore. That's why it's important what Marshal Borowski was talking about. Let us go on the path of increasing expenditure on GDP, but when it comes to managing such a large project, worth PLN 24 billion, we have to ask ourselves whether we are using all available tools and methods to achieve the greatest possible effect. If the British are talking about childhood... I will point out that they have 100 pounds of benefits, which is the level at which we will have them in our country. What I'm trying to say is that at four - or four and a half times lower incomes we are very generous in this regard. I'd be able to agree with that if someone gave me 100 percent guarantee of results. If we want to allocate these 24 billions, because that's what I'm going to talk about, for social policy as a whole, including family policy, it's a few important elements in managing such a project. These are based on analysis, the answer to the question: what should be done to increase childhood? That's what the fight's about today, so we're not in the gray end. I would like to say to you that there is no country that has increased expenditure in the form of a financial benefit and therefore has increased childhood. I don't know anybody like that. I asked the Minister. Maybe later in the commentary, you'll find that someone knows you. The increase in childhood occurs, as in life, when we build a comprehensive program, the whole project, the whole project. Of course, the financial support element is one of the key elements of decision-making for yes, but we would also need to read the studies of Professor Czapiński, which shows what Polish families are talking about to make a decision on yes. The British also noted that first of all, support for the first child must be supported as much as possible. What are we doing? Let's imagine this situation: 5-person family, income per person is 801 PLN, one of the children is 18 years old, the other 19 years old, is in upper secondary school, and the third is 7 years old and no longer gets support. Is this a fair system? I will no longer talk about those elements that have been raised here, concerning people with disabilities, inequalities. Of course, where there is money, so much money, it's hard to talk about 100 percent justice, always somewhere someone will say: I have been treated a little worse. But you say so. And you're offended by the harsh words you made during the election campaign. I say no, I disagree with that claim. The state hasn't made an electoral lie about every child. You made a lie because half the kids get it, half the kids don't get it. If it's satisfying for you, it's okay. Let's take that assumption. And if we can't afford to give it to everyone right now, because it should be, then let's think about how to make the most of these 24 billions. The Minister said that families and families would receive it. And that's the truth. In fact, wherever you go, you meet families, so to speak, with low income and the question is: when will you finally approve that, because I am already borrowing in my store. It's very important that we make this announcement as soon as possible. But if this is also to be part of social support, it's about social welfare. It's not exactly what we call it, but that's how we're gonna treat it. I mean, these are the methods... There is a method proposed by Mr Janusz Lewandowski. A method that has recently been identified as one of the best methods to propose just strengthening the family and reducing taxes. That is, out of the 3 danins that today pay the poorest, that is 29.5%, let us leave them to pay one 10% tax. Employers will be better, you don't need any additional items like collecting the whole list... I look, there are 7 points that have to be submitted to get these 500 zlotys. And 7,000 officials, etc., etc. So if we want to start by helping those who are most in need, let us consider how to do so. I take these countries 500 PLN as such a great advertising trick, in my opinion. You presented a great product as a thought. And I urge you to reflect on it. Maybe it's too late today because, as I've heard, Mr. President is waiting in the blocks to sign this... [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] Yes? Last two sentences, Mr. Marshal. So he won't perform again. [[There you go.]] I'm done. If the marshal agrees, I would like to say that to the elements concerning support for the most deprived, families who need the most of this support... e.g. The family I was talking about will not receive any gold, and the family that has two small children and an average of 10,000 per person will receive 500 PLN. This country is causing the dissection of Polish society. The poorest ones for 500 zlotys buy stuff. I don't want to talk about 7% of the poorest people anymore and what they'll probably do with them. And the wealthiest will invest in the development of the child. So let's build Multi-layer family support instruments In the form of money which they will receive as little as possible, but also in the form of institutions such as welfare, good school, free food, free kindergarten, etc., etc. Then only within the framework of this money will the management system of the Polish family support project be built. Oh, yeah, we're kind of acting like Greece 15 years ago. Mr. Marshal, I will conclude by quoting Professor Czapliński, who is a man... [[Voice from the Room: Czapinski.]] Chapliński. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from Szymanski's room?]] [[Voice from the room: Who?]] [[Voice from the hall: What professor?]] [[Calm down, please.]] [[Voice from the room: Name?]] Chapliński. [[Voice from the room: Czapiński.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes. He in one of the programs said: 500 PLN this is a very good product, in the sense of election shot in the jackpot. And very logically. He just added a second sentence: when it comes to... I know Stanislaw's friend wouldn't like to hear it, but I'll say it. He said... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry...]] Now, now, Mr. Marshal. [[But really, it's been three minutes.]] He said this: the result of this program is a bullet to the fence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but... [[Thank you. I'll hold you to your word that you won't speak again. Okay?]] (Yes.) Senator Dobrzyński, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u263	Dear Marshal, Minister! I would like to thank you very warmly for this law, which is undoubtedly groundbreaking. High Izbo, the bill will implement the next rule for many, many terms. Regardless of which option will rule, no one will dare in the future to take this money away from Polish families. I would like to refer to those statements that spoke about the electoral lie. Ladies and gentlemen, not long ago, there was an election campaign, and I also took part in it. And from the very beginning we said that this 500 zloty would benefit the second and the next child, because it is not social aid. We haven't treated it like this since the beginning. It is a family help, a family help that will certainly feel safer financially through the implementation of this program. We are going with a broader financial, economic, economic programme; in this area of aid to Poles, Polish citizens is also an assumption, as Marshal Borowski said, concerning the amount of tax-free, as well as the return to the retirement age we mentioned earlier. And I'm convinced that this program will be implemented. The first part of the programme is already actually, practically implemented, because, of course, this law will be adopted. It's really wrong to accuse a lie. Sharing children is indecent. This is the money that parents will have. Ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised to receive the opinion of the Minister, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. He claims that this program should also be extended to persons over the age of eighteen. Eighteen-year-old, Minister, this is a grown man. At the age of 24, I was already out of the army and had to work for my family. So it's your position that's really political. Typical. [[You want me to stop high school?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go. And that's just not how you treat your opinion, because... She's just political. You say what politicians, representatives of the Civic Platform say. All the more reason to be surprised. We have also talked a lot about the position of local governments here. Ladies and gentlemen, local authorities are prepared to implement these programmes. They've got legal counsels, they've got departments, they've got social services. And I don't see the need to make as much money as a 2% commission. direct to local governments. I hope it's done well, and I wouldn't be afraid that the mayor or the mayor will be of one option or another. Let's remember that the mayors, mayors, and city presidents judge voters. And voters will not allow these programmes to be implemented in a burdensome way for them. It is a groundbreaking act, very important, which will bring a great deal in our Polish families. And I ask all the people who are here in the Chamber to accept it, of course, because it is wrong to criticize this program. As I hear Senators of the Civic Platform, I feel like those people who came to the Senate today, like they're making history, forgetting those eight years they didn't do much. It better be less criticism on your part, 'cause it's gonna be more decent. Then, too, there will be no impulse for us to criticize you for doing little for Polish families. The poverty zone, which has continued to grow during your governments, is also the cause of such and not of other governments. Of course, all sectors of our social, political, economic life need to be repaired. Economic development is undoubtedly very important, but money must be found for the implementation of this law. And back to the issue of English institutes and opinions, I would like to say that I recently read the opinion of English scientists who say that 1 thousand PLN in our country And just as they do, they are talking about £200 there, and that would be enough for these families to function freely. And I'm not talking about poor families here, I'm talking about average families, because we know that this is a very significant financial support that is necessary in our case. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u264	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! All people are born equal, and their whole lives later fight against it, is the sentence expressed by Benjamin Franklin, one of the founding fathers of the United States. And we use the word "my" here because we form a senate community that I still believe in. Abstracting from the division between adults, we begin to divide children again into those who qualify for help and those who do not qualify. We'll reconstruct a useful project, but full of unfinished details. For example, in the case of such a normal family having two children, the situation is that when an older child turns 18, the second one becomes the first one and then no longer gets any help. This should be changed. I'll tell you what I learned from everyday practice, from talking to patients. A Polish citizen, but another national, commended me that similar benefits are taken at the same time in the UK, Sweden and Germany and will try to collect them in Poland, because there is no exchange of information on this subject in the European Union and there is no coordination of data to avoid such duplication or duplication. Let me tell you another story. I was shocked by two nurses, my subordinates who came to ask for a reduction in salaries, because then the income threshold would fall to them below 800 PLN and, losing 200 PLN, they would gain many, many hundreds more zlotys. This should also be changed. In this useful project of such absurdities Although I don't want to use the word "nonsense" there is more and we should therefore think about it, starting with its financing. This year from the LTE license, from the NBP reserves money will be found. I share the opinion of Senator Dobrzyński that no next government would dare to put out this program in an important way, because people, once they get something, are reluctant to give up. However, I am concerned about our economy and our economy in the years to come, because this is an extremely abundant programme. The question is, since we're giving children, maybe we need to give them to the seniors. After all, they've worked their whole lives, they've had low pensions, and they'd probably spend 500 zlotys on grandchildren anyway. But this is, of course, a digression. I appeal to us, to the senators, to the ladies and gentlemen, but above all to those who are in charge of the authorities at the moment, to the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, so that we may give more thought to this project, because it really contains a number of repeated times. That's why I don't want to do it for time savings. paragraphs that can be changed and improved for the better. The lack of reflection that we are committed to in the Senate gives rise to blind acceptance, based on faith in the infallibility of the leader. And I have the impression that the leader is not Prime Minister Szydło or Minister Rafalska. A wise man learns more from his adversaries than a fool from friends and flatterers. That's also a sentence with Benjamin Franklin. And I would like you all to seriously consider the amendments at the committee's meeting. In any case, whether reported on the one hand or on the other Which will make the law discussed here better. Because a reckless vote in favour without amendments will result in a situation similar to that of the so-called. criminal law for the presidents of large companies. From this stand we said that the original record hit people who left as part of a voluntary program, etc. The bill was passed only to come back in three weeks and to make an amendment that actually directs the bill to the presidents of large companies. I'm afraid it's the same for us here. The last quote, also from Franklin: Common sense is something everyone needs, hardly anyone has, and no one knows that it is lacking. I wish this House of common sense didn't lack what I wish and wish for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This may be naive, but I would like at least in the verbal sphere not to deepen a certain gap between the two sides of this dispute. Because I'm sure the Platform wants to somehow forget that the green island is also the result of previous decisions by Zyta Gilowska in 2005-2007. And it seems to me that right now we're simplifying the situation a little bit if we say there was no family policy, no social policy in the days of the Platform. I mean, I think that a paid, thousand-dollar maternity leave for a year that worked, the issue of nursery and kindergarten... Okay, to some extent it was forced on local governments, but I'd say it was such a cost and such extortion on local governments that I'm able to accept. Big Family Card program, 1,000 zlotys per kid... I think there's been some mistakes. Or maybe it wasn't mistakes, it was something that didn't work out, that is. The nanny support system didn't work. But there were some political elements. And I would like us to try, both sides, to look at the Polish state in some continuity. The bill discussed here is an interesting idea, because such a little, you can say, impactive and noticeable. It is commented on in Poland and I think I think so, also from the perspective of Wroclaw It's expected. The decision on children is not always a decision based solely on economic factors. There is a cultural element, sometimes some elements and rational, and irrational. And a common discussion about all of this may become a impulse that will make some breakthrough. I like, of course, in this bill, that she assumes trust in her parents. Of course, you can always bring everything to absurdity and consider that there will be extreme cases, that the money in question will only be spent on alcohol. But there's an element of respect and trust in the citizen. I am a little surprised by the Civic Platform, because in the election campaign and immediately after it I heard that this project is absolutely unrealistic financially. And when I listened to the parliamentary debate, it turned out that the proposal proposed by the PiS should be further extended to all children, should last longer than 18 years and so on. I thought it was logical to say: you see, you have to limit certain issues, we are glad that the budget deficit will be smaller. And here's the rehearsal, I'd say, overbiding, which I don't understand. How Mr. Czarnobaj talks about wanting such an expensive project to be 100% sure of its success... Well, I'd say it doesn't work that easily in social policy. I'm just wondering which bill from the last one... the important one we've been working on for a long time is 100%. success. I don't know, the garbage bill was the kind of change that was supposed to be important. It's hard for me to say it's a 100% success. Social policy makes some assumptions. And, of course, within the framework of these assumptions The second child, the amount, etc. It is often possible to abstract some absurd situations. But there are arbitrary decisions that intersect... And of course, you can find examples that will show that it all works badly. I've got this bill, so to speak, two minor unrests and one big one. It is minor that, however, we are dealing with a burden on the local government and that the belief of the Minister in a significant reduction of optional benefits under the social assistance provided by the local government seems excessive to me. [[But she's already pulled out.]] Uh-huh. And this greater concern is, of course, related to the question of budgetary possibilities. Of course, there's been a misunderstanding here. That's how I understand it. That this is such a perpetuum mobile that if we add more money... [[Oh, that's right.]] ...this is going to be a bigger increase in national income. It seems to me that it is simply that there are costs, only in the context of these costs in the bill drawn... that part of the costs will be reduced by an additional circulation of money, by a start-up, etc. Same... I'm sorry, but the idea of giving away apartments for free as an element that drives the economy... If it were that simple, it would be realized. I remember a system like this. He's been portrayed in the series "Alternativation 4". However, I do not read the bill discussed here as a simple maneuver to improve fertility. I read this law more in certain categories of civilization change. I have the impression that, after 1989, we consciously or unconsciously made a choice. I don't know what to call him liberal, that everything is an individual cost. Culture, education, health care have been privatized to some extent. Children's costs were also privatized. And I have the impression that for the past 27 years, however, it has been so that... of course, then there was a policy of correction, so it's not all that simple. The point was that the child, as far as costs are concerned, was only a concern of his parents. And what we are talking about here is a system that gives some opportunity to compensate those who have decided for children who bear the cost of keeping their own children who, in the long run, will work for our pensions. And for this reason too, I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u268	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal!]] Yes? Excuse me, Mr. Senator? [[Could I say two sentences of correction? Because my name came up. And not in the sense that I spoke... if Mr. Marshal would allow...]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u269	Mr. Marshal, I'm addressing Senator Obremski. I want to say again, because maybe I didn't stress it very clearly: I don't speak and I don't say that this program or any other program or project needs to be implemented with 100% efficiency. Such projects are simply difficult to look for not only in Poland, but also in the world. I'm talking about it. And that was my statement, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen. That if we spend 24 billion PLN, we need to look for instruments with the greatest possible efficiency. And that's the fundamental difference. [[I see.]] That's all, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u270	Thank you very much. Senator Kraska, please take the floor right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u271	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! In my previous term, I had the pleasure of being a member of the family committee, working in it, so let me share a few comments. For years we have known that the demographic situation in Poland is very bad. Everyone admits it, every government leans over it, every government tries to do something about it. The actions taken by the previous government were uncoordinated and unfortunately not effective. Demographics cover long-term processes and at the same time affect many aspects of the functioning of the state. The main tool for assessing the country's demographic status is fertility rate. In 2013 15 thousand fewer Poles were born in Poland than they died. Our country's fertility rate was 1.26 this year. In order to ensure simple demographic reproduction, the fertility rate should be 2.1 of the child per woman of procreational age. Let me remind you that in 1990 this ratio was 2.0, in 1978 In 2013, the fertility rate for Poland was third from the end throughout the European Union, and in 2014 we took two hundred and twelveth place in the world. Many scientists say that if nothing changes radically in our demographic policy, Poland will have a process of depopulation throughout the century. It is forecast that in 2050 we will remain, citizens living in Poland, 33 million 951 thousand. At the same time, we are gaining people who will be post-production age, i.e. 65 years and older. It was estimated that in 2080 there could be 60 people aged 65+ for every 100 people of working age. What the previous term proclaimed as a great success, that is, extending maternity leave, will unfortunately not improve the demographic situation. The result was a deterioration of the situation of women in the labour market. And it is women who bear the greatest burden of demographic change. It is they who are required to bring up children, to raise them and at the same time to work, because the number of hands in the labour market is falling, but women are often also required to care for the elderly. Demographic problems of Poland have been going on for many years, which is why the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of June last year, entitled "Coordination of family policy in Poland', is interesting. NIK carried out this inspection in 2012 and 2014. The report does not accuse the government of Platform and PSL that nothing about the demographic issue has done that he did not spend money on it, but that it was spent wrongly and in an unthinkable way. According to the report by NIK, the Polish state's family policy was not fully defined in any document, nor were its objectives defined or the scope of the activities covered. According to the NIK, there are numerous instruments of support for families, for which significant public funds are spent, which are often comparable to national defence expenditure, but which are very fragmented and do not contribute to sustainable children's growth. When we talk about demography, we must also not forget about economic emigration. Between 2004 and 2013, more than 2 million young Poles and Poles went abroad. In 2013 21,000 122 children were born in England and Wales alone, whose mothers were Polish women. If we add 376 thousand children born in Poland this year, it will turn out that in England and Wales 5.3% The children were born by Polish women. Mostly young people leave, dynamic people, and they have the greatest impact on the development of the economy. Opening up the labour market in the European Union was not just a gift for the Polish unemployment who was fighting back then. Polish immigrants have been tried to estimate how much of their GDP is produced in the countries where they work. It turns out that the biggest beneficiaries of the Polish emigration in 2014 and 2020 will be the economies of countries such as the United Kingdom. Approximately EUR 63 billion, Germany EUR 50 billion, Ireland EUR 11.8 billion, Italy EUR 9.7 billion, etc. Of course, these estimates can be discussed, but consideration cannot be given to the losses suffered by the Polish economy in connection with the emigration of 2 million of its citizens. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Poland is in a certain loop of inability. With very low fertility, we push young generations out of the country at the same time. I believe that the programme of the current government, the 500+ programme, is one of the elements to stop this catastrophic demographic collapse. The opposition senators unfortunately forgot that for 8 years they had time to help the Polish family. Today you shed tears and break your hands, but we, gentlemen of the Senators, can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u272	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo. First of all, I would like to thank the High House, all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators who have spoken because I am aware that I am so convinced that this discussion about family policy, about social policy, about our country, about the most important problems is very important, very interesting, and I think that from different sides it is very serious. And regardless of the fact that some of the arguments or some of the proposals are unacceptable to me, I would like to thank you because I think this is a very important discussion that is at a very good level and thank you very much for that. In this brief speech, I will talk about three points that I have chosen and which I would particularly like to draw attention to. Namely, this law, because of what we are all talking about, the commitment of huge resources, will affect in very different directions, ranging from poverty, demography, to health issues and many other issues, because for example it will also affect the labour market. Therefore, regardless of the provisions of this law, which indicates when we will receive the reports and when we will look at how it is implemented and what its effects are, we have as Senate committees In particular, the Committee on Family, Senior Policy and Social Policy, but also other committees, as well as the entire Senate The possibility of obtaining materials and discussing this law, discussing how it is being implemented and, as I have already said, what results it brings, not in 2 years, not in 3 years, not necessarily in a year, but we can do so before. I would like to talk about a few areas that I think should be highlighted in particular. First area. It is important to note how this law, its solutions affect the sphere of social assistance, and whether they allow people to free themselves from social assistance in the sense that they stop being clients of social assistance. I hope that this process will take place to some extent. There were various proposals regarding the construction of this law. There were proposals to force this process by typing... including 500+ into income within the meaning of the Social Services Act. Then it would cause a situation, as if forced, that a large part of the population would be hundreds of thousands of people. It would fall out of social assistance activities and from various forms of assistance in the form of permanent benefits, housing and other subsidies. But perhaps because a number of forms of aid are optional forms of aid, as well as on request, a large number of customers And that's what I'm counting on. It will refrain from working with social assistance through the solutions proposed in this law. I'm talking about it because it's a very important area. This law and those measures that are involved should encourage people to be as independent as possible so that they can cope without these social support supports. We will, I think, as... as I said, I declare that I will also be interested in this. I will not expect an annual or two-year period, but before that I will want to see how this is achieved, whether this objective, precisely that families should be able to cope without the help of social assistance, is achieved by means of this law. That's the first line. The second point concerns Article. 9, this article, which states that in some cases this aid may be paid or transferred in a form other than money. There is therefore a problem here as to how social assistance will do so. There's a lot of work to be done here, and it's not easy, in spite of appearances. Because when we don't pay, we don't transfer the money into an account, a social worker, working with a family that has been taken away for a period of time, sometimes for a period of six months, sometimes for a longer period, has to determine in some way, because it is not going to do so arbitraryly, for which this money should be granted. There's no universal pattern here. It must always be related to a specific family and tailored to the needs of this family. Therefore, we are talking about social work here, and social work is individual work, it requires the involvement of a social worker. Therefore, the question arises as to whether social workers will have time to do so. Will they want to do that? And will they want to pay attention to this when these funds are embezzled? Because one of the possibilities is that I've heard about it from social workers... Well, if there's too many cases of this kind, then we just won't pay attention. That would be fatal, because these funds, which are not earned money, but a certain witness, should be spent and used in accordance with that purpose, which is specified in the law. Therefore, both the government and the High House should pay attention to how these processes are going and whether this is really the case. And the last problem I would like to point out concerns the first child and the income criterion. I would like to draw attention to the fact that income criteria are always used in such a way that if this is beneficial and gives good opportunities to obtain aid, it is somehow manipulated by income. How can income be manipulated? Many such cases have already occurred. They didn't say, and anyway, I didn't hear that you could manipulate your family's income in a very simple way. It's happening and it's happening now. Well, you don't get married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're married, you're not married, you're not married, you're not married, you're married, you're not married, you're married, you're not married, you're not married. husband as a husband's income only, and the wife remains without income, therefore clearly does not exceed the income threshold of 800 PLN. Such effects can also be obtained through separation, divorce. If such a situation were to occur, it would be very bad, because our goal should be to strengthen the family, to strengthen the family's sustainability, not to provoke such a situation, so that the family wonders whether, because of the witnessing, and in this case we have a really high witness, it is worth being in a lasting relationship. It would be fatal from the point of view of the child's welfare, because the primary good of the child is to raise a whole family, it would be very bad. But, as I said, it is worth looking at these processes, it is worth checking the data, how they will look in this area as well. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the context of loneliness, which has been discussed a lot in the Seym and a little bit in the Senate, although less and in a slightly different aspect, and in this context which I am talking about... Well, there are a lot of social policy solutions that push people to raise their children alone. And like I said, from the point of view of children, it's a pity. Note, for example. that young people simply say that they do not have a marriage because it will make it harder for them to have access to a nursery, a place in a nursery or a kindergarten. On the other hand, the possibility of tax settlement, PIT settlement together with the child or with the children has only people raising children alone. Also, high-income people can... And we know that they often use divorce or separation to account for their children. Well, if we want to build the strength of Polish families, then this kind of solutions must be avoided. And it can be done in different ways. One way is that we take the right to account together with the children. And it can be disseminated to everyone, so there will be no incentive to divorce, because people in marriage will have the same right. It is also possible, when it comes to daycare or kindergartens that I mentioned, to go in this direction in order to secure the possibility of getting places in daycares and kindergartens so that there is no priority for people who are alone. So that there are different fields, I point them out, which I think we should pay very systematic attention to, including in this project: how it all works, whether it works well or goes in the right direction. To be prepared for changes that we cannot predict today, we cannot plan. Because in different areas it is extremely difficult. There are areas where we can say with a lot of certainty: it's great and it's gonna work that way. But there are areas we can't be sure of. Finally, here, but especially in the Seym, it was said that we share children. This is such an amazing argument that only appeared in this discussion. And if we were to take seriously the words that we share children, we should say this: for decades Polish children were divided, because family benefits are only for a group of children, those of families with very low incomes. Besides, these family benefits depend on the age of the child, which is how children are divided. In Poland, various forms of aid have been granted according to income criteria for different children for decades. And no one has ever put a case in such a way that Poles or political parties share children. And yet there were and there are such systems, even when hundreds of thousands and millions of children came out of the family benefit system just because they didn't raise the income threshold... And this has happened in the last ten years on a scale of several million. So let's not use that argument because it's completely untrue. The argument that someone here wants to divide children first from others, and that that is the purpose or intention, is quite disappointing. That's completely untrue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u274	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to begin by thanking the government and Minister Rafalska for this bill. And I will use lofty words that this is an extremely important moment for Poland and for Polish families in the economics of family farms, as well as from the point of view of cultural changes in Europe and the world, cultural changes that affect families, including Poland. We remember the teaching of John Paul II about families, Senator Mikołajczyk quoted quotations. We have also heard many exhortations that we do not remember this teaching. You can see the real fruit today. Although there is no reference to this teaching in the justification of this law, we know that it is its strongest subsoil. Of course, this is also the result of many experiences of our nation and state. There are, of course, many aspects, problems, and there is little time, so I will try to talk about the most important ones. I will not refer to the very strange statements of some representatives of the Civic Platform and other opposition groups, especially in the media, but also now in the Senate. I would like to start by perhaps quoting an extremely significant and important provision of our constitution. Art. 18 says: "Marriage as a relationship between women and men, family, motherhood and parenthood are under the protection and care of the Republic of Poland. To those who are more affected by the European argument, I will quote a passage from the European Social Charter, paragraph 16: "Family, as a basic cell of society, has the right to adequate social, legal and economic protection to ensure its full development." Also the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Art. 16 says: "Family is a natural and fundamental cell of society and has the right to protection from society and state. Ladies and gentlemen, this law raises the subjectivity of the family in an extremely clear way, raises the issue of childhood as values, because this is what Prime Minister Szydło has said many times that children are an investment, not a cost. All these elements are extremely important in connection with the construction, with the reconstruction of the social atmosphere around these issues. Because this is often called into question whether this will have a demographic effect. This is an extremely important element not only affecting the imagination of marriages present and future, but the whole atmosphere around these matters. Of course, this is an expression of the auxiliary role of the state. And we know it wasn't always like this. When the Minister of Education slammed her hand at the Sejm, saying that the reform on six-year-olds would be implemented with all determination, and when millions of signatures were thrown out, it was not an expression of the State's subsidiary role. It is included in this Act. Of course, it is worth mentioning the image of the family in the media, which is extremely important. After all, there is a built or rebuilt model of the Polish family. Of course, the tax system is extremely important. We share the testimony of our spouses, but we know that the participation of children in these discounts is not as big, but they cost just as much as their spouses. There is no doubt that support for raising children should not have a social dimension. The Minister said here that these are, like, two currents: social support and subjective support, not social support. And I think that this non-social dimension of this support has an extremely important impact on the subjectivity of the family, on emphasising that childhood is a value, on building a new social atmosphere around the family. Of course, family policy or family policy, because it's called differently, should be reflected in all the laws that we make, because they all concern the family. And I think that many of us are looking at making laws, making laws. This is extremely important. I'll tell you what. Okay, let's get started. Of course, other achievements in this area were referred to here. They're important and valuable, and I don't want to cross them off. This law seems to give new impetus to this. This seems to be one of the most important, very necessary elements. Ladies and gentlemen, I felt very obliged to this statement because many years ago, in 1998, I was a co-author of the report on the situation of Polish families. In one of the chapters on demography it was presented This is what you might call the demographic wedge, which shows where it's going. Then it was said: it is not true; it is impossible. It's been 18 years and we're at the gray end of the world. This is unbelievable. Therefore, these issues, of course, the role of the media, the role of the law, are very important. These are obvious, obvious things, but for those who doubt or like to appeal to recognised authorities, I would just like to recall the Nobel Prize winners in economics: Tinbergen, Schultz, 1976, Stigler, 1982, Modigliani, 1985, Solow, 1987, Lucas, 1995 and probably the most important, Becker, 1992. Well, Becker stated in his work that human capital is the basis for social and economic development, pointing not only to demography, but also to the education of subsequent generations and, which is a special opportunity for our nation and state, to the values that we believe. He said in his work that a society of many, well-educated and well-equipped products produce better and cheaper products. Better, because it's just working well, it feels ethically obliged to do good work, and cheaper, because it doesn't have to be constantly controlled in every interoperative position in industry or elsewhere. It's a long story to talk about. I was watching a presentation about Mr. Becker's legacy just before entering the room, a very, very interesting presentation about how parents decide the amount of money they spend on their children, about their family's children. Let me put it this way: when we were talking about 500+ each, from the second, the child, many people didn't believe, said it was an election program. This is becoming a fact today, although we know that it is burdened with a great deal of financial effort. At the beginning of this week, there were committee meetings on the state budget, and we know that there were such needs that we talked about, that they had to be postponed for next year, because now this programme is very important. We believe that the actions taken will result in real economic growth and that there will be no shortage of other areas, as some of my previous speakers prophesied here, because... What else am I gonna look at? In the fact that a certain social enthusiasm, some acceptance has been awakened, people are simply glad that they have been treated subjectively, that someone has noticed that they are and they are ready to make an effort. But we're not saying that it's a financial effort, that you have to give up or give more tax. No. We need to do more, invest in an innovative economy, because this is the main source of revenue and of households, and of the state budget. Of course, the state can influence the condition of families by fulfilling its role as an auxiliary, so it is written here... I've written down three sentences like that. The foundation of society is the family and its proper functioning depends on the proper functioning of society as a whole. In Poland, as in most European countries, there are significant changes in the situation of the family. They are particularly expressed in the transformations: models of family creation, family size, ways in which families carry out their basic tasks, living conditions of families and the health situation of family members, threats to the proper functioning of families, a sense of social security, and many, many others. We know that for the good functioning of the family they are needed... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, it's been ten minutes.]] That's one sentence, then. They're needed. - Two sentences. - Okay. Apartments, work, good school, of course kindergartens and day care, but let us leave here a choice, and let us not introduce a policy to change customs in this regard. Of course, a holistic approach to family problems is very important: children, social assistance, work. That's why I'm very happy that there's this bill, that there's this big step. We're going to normal, finally, and thank you very much for that. I invite all people of good will to cooperate, to this work of good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking in the motto of the Act 500+. And yet this law has a name, it is the Law on State aid in raising children, so we clearly point out what the role of this Act is. Finally, the state wants to join, clearly this is the result of this law, it wants to help raise children. Many of my previous speakers have already pointed to these elements. The Minister presented this programme very well here, explaining how this law will be implemented. The Prime Minister spoke beautifully about it yesterday in the Seym. She said that all the good solutions that have been put in place so far will continue. She even thanked those who did the right thing. No one here wants to torpedo you, to say that nothing has happened so far, because some things have been done. So let us do this too, since Law and Justice have announced it in their program and wants to implement it. The Prime Minister said yesterday: I heard what people were expecting. This is a program written by people during the election and presidential and parliamentary campaigns. People clearly expected this support, state aid in raising children, as the title of this law says. So we're going in the right direction. That's what the voters expected us to do. We want to implement this quickly and give more time to local governments. What's the rush? The idea is for the local government to be able to prepare as soon as possible to implement this. One of the Senators of the Platform said that information is coming, propaganda is coming to fill in the conclusions. It is good that there is such information, it is good that there is such information, because the earlier people realize, the sooner we educate officials in local governments, the faster the training provided by the Ministry will take place, the greater this will give the chance to successfully implement this project, the state aid law in raising children. Of course, these are the costs. I understand that, and we all understand that the cost of raising children is a big cost. As the Minister said, on average, we want to pass on about 60% of what is needed to raise a child, statistically, because no one can calculate the cost of raising a child for every child. This is actually a big state aid in raising children. Let's give it a chance, let's show that there are possibilities. There are no perfect laws, both in this bill and in the previous ones, there will certainly be some records in the next one that can be improved. I hope if it comes from practice... You will remember that in those terms we most often amended the Road Traffic Act. It was probably the most frequently amended law, the second, every third meeting was the amendment of the Traffic Act, the amendment of regulations, etc., we constantly introduced changes. Is everything okay? A simple example, even in the Road Traffic Act, we couldn't straighten things out because we couldn't. I think that these solutions are chosen at the moment as the best solutions, adapted to the economic capabilities of the state, because we are also aware that there are not so many resources. The fact that there are restrictions on the first child and certain income is not due to the wrong will of the Law and Justice, but to the economic situation, because there is no such possibility at the moment. And the platoon state wants to beat us, show us that you're better, and you want to give more. You can't give any more. That's a little schizophrenic, what you said earlier, and what you're saying right now. Now all of a sudden you want to do everyone right. And saying, "We're checking." Yeah, well, we're just checking to see if you guys are reliable. Yes? Let's stop moving around with those who have better solutions, who have worse solutions. Let us give the Poles this state aid in raising children, which is indeed a tangible aid. And one more thing. Many of my previous speakers have talked about it here, but it rarely rains. Will there be an effect? I say it will be, basically: we will stop the demographic decline. This is going to be a great achievement. If something stops, it means that at least what's there will hold. And there's still a low level. If we hadn't taken any action, it would have been worse. So you have to hope for improvement, for what the government has calculated here. Maybe we can reach the numbers that are being proposed here. It is, as the Minister said, a parenting service for the family. It's not a specific help for a child, and that's what the words were saying here, too. It was supposed to be 250 zlotys or something... This is state aid in raising children, helping the family. I often look at things from an agricultural point of view, because I do farming. And I always say that the basis of the farming system is the family farm. Even in the constitutional record, there is talk of a family farm. We continue to build you also on the family farming economy, on family farms that have evolved for years. And we want to keep it going. However, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the decline in rural births is very large. This isn't what used to be. How can this be countered? Today we can say that we are happy that the Polish village will get these funds, these 500 PLN per child. We're talking about a second and a third child because few farmers will get their first child. I've already asked the Minister's question here. Minister, if the farm has 12 hectares, and there is one child in the family... The income calculated and administered here by the CSO is PLN 2 000 506. And there's no chance... a 12-hectare farm and every next hectare. It does not give a chance to receive a benefit for the first child. This must be made clear to farmers. Just as the workers won't be able to get it, the farmers won't be able to get it. To put it mildly, I feel a little hurt here. Minister Kosiniak is so proud of his solution that he helped farmers, and he did not give this benefit to everyone before. We're talking about maternity leave here, about a thousand zlotys. Only later, after many pressures, there was a change and it was considered that farmers, homeless and students would be able to receive a thousand gold maternity benefits. It wasn't that long ago. This has not been the case until now, and only now will it be introduced. Yes? And I want to point out the fact that for me it was... If someone was unemployed or a student, they got 100%. from the state budget. Farmers had previously received maternity benefits from the KRUS system. There's a fund that keeps itself up. The state budget does not add a zloty to it. Farmers received less than PLN 4,000 as a so-called maternity allowance and this allowance was taken away from them. We've stripped their benefits of the contributions they've been paying themselves. It's the same with sick people. Farmers will determine how much they will get for each sick day. They say it's going to be 10 zlotys. The Board of Farmers shall determine how high it will be. They think 10 zlotys is compensation... Would someone say 10 zlotys? What kind of sickness benefit is this for one day? That's 300 zlotys a month. And note that you don't get that every day, only when you're sick for at least 30 days. So there's a barrier here. It's not like somebody got sick, got cold and got sick right away. No. Plus, you get no more than six months. And the farmers keep it up. I wonder if this provision has been proposed here in a kind of a good way. I asked that question, Minister. Is it really okay... If a farmer receives 300 PLN of sickness benefit, will he have to report it? If he's got a certain number of hectares and got a qualification, he's gonna have to report that he got 300 zlotys? He's about to lose his witness because he'll be at the threshold. I don't know why... If an employee has sickness benefits, he gets 80%. Payback, which means he gets less. And I understand that in that case, an employee who gets less income... His income can only decrease, not increase. I don't know if it was intentional or intentional, but I'd prefer it if the farmer didn't have to report... Not only is he sick, he has a problem with having to hire someone on his farm because someone has to help him, he still has to report that 300 zlotys a month... And if he gets sick for three months, for example. There was an accident or... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Time's up, Senator.]] In this connection, I think it would take some time to think about whether there's anything else... And there's a couple of things you might be wondering about. But I am really grateful to the Prime Minister, the Minister and those who prepared this project for the fact that at last the Polish village will receive just, same support as people living in the city, doing other professions, that we finally treat everyone equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u278	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister Radziwill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u279	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I speak as one of the senators, and I act as one. Like many others who have spoken here, I believe that today is a great celebration of Poland and Polish families. And for personal reasons, please forgive this personal matter. As few people in this room, although not the only one, I can talk about how big families see it, with a large number of children. My wife and I have four sons and four daughters. We have eight grandchildren. And in my opinion, our 37-year experience of marriage and the stories of children, children growing up, children starting their families, give me a unique perspective for this room when it comes to seeing family problems. These years... Of course, I feel happy and I don't want to complain, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's quite obvious and all the statistics confirm that it's just that the family without children is doing well, the family with one child still somehow manages, and then the staircase starts and the financial side is that families that have three children or more that don't live in poverty is very, very little. That's the reality, that's the absolute reality, even if those who don't have this experience don't believe it, it's just that. The government found the money. He found money in the budget, which is a budget with a deficit, so you can say that there is no money. But they're not as good as there isn't for other things. Some are concerned that this money will be spent at the expense of other tasks. Of course I do. That's the only question about priorities. In my opinion, Poland has no priority as a family and as a child. If we don't succeed in this project, we won't be able to do anything anymore, because we're gonna die out, we're just gonna die out. And the rest just won't be worth taking care of. This bill certainly has two goals. One goal is to stimulate childhood and therefore it focuses on young families. And those families that have children growing up or 18 years old and older are disappointed that they won't be covered by the law. But this is precisely because the main purpose of this law is to stimulate children, that is why it focuses on those young families, those who will only have children, not those who already have children. The second objective is justice, fair treatment of all families who have children, and therefore the law also includes those families who already have children. Above all, however, it is to encourage those who think about starting a family, and if so, whether to have children, and if so, whether to have more children. This is the main purpose of this law, and there is no doubt about it. And, of course, how you hear the hustle around this bill... On the one hand, there are complaints, especially among the representatives of the Platform, who say that it is necessary to include other children, and in the same Platform there are doubts whether there is enough money for it; and sometimes even in this Chamber there were people who spoke both, that is to say they wanted to include more children, and at the same time they doubted whether it would work from the financial side. Well, it's just starting to get unbelievable. On the other hand, we hear complaining about another part of the opposition, modern people, people who are satisfied, people who simply have no imagination, who do not know what it's like in families, where there are children. And they don't know what it's like for young people, for whom basic fear and fear are about whether they have enough money for anything and, above all, whether they can handle it if they choose to have children. So this priority is so obvious that you just have to choose it. And there's no other alternative. There's no other alternative. Only after we spend this money on children will you wonder what else. That's how it is. As it happens, aside from being a senator, I'm also a health minister. Of course, some have already whispered to me that it may not be enough for a raise in health care, but I really, as a man and a citizen, see that we need to start somewhere. And that's definitely the priority. And I'm sorry to hear all those who criticize this solution from all sides talk about distribution, while it is simply remembering the responsibility of the state. They're talking about the need to convert this money into in-kind aid, because most of them are going to be embezzled, wasted. However, I would like to point out that North Korea is the best in this in-kind aid or simply in carrying out the tasks of the State towards citizens in the form of in-kind aid. It's all in the form of physical aid, isn't it? There you know that a man needs some bread for a week or a day, 1 pair of shoes per year and 1 bike for 20 years. Well, you can, but you know it's people, it's parents who know best how to spend money for their children. It's sad to hear when we mock someone for 500 zlotys decide to have a baby. I would like to point out that we're talking about 108 grand per child, because that's the total amount of child support. From the birth of a child to the 18th year of age, the state has invested the family with 108 thousand zlotys. That's the kind of money we're talking about. It's huge money, huge help. The fact that people don't have money is certainly not the only reason they don't have children, but it's a very powerful factor, as we know. The statistics of Polish children born abroad were already given here, where people can count on this kind of help. I'm sorry to hear even more, as here in this room, some people seem to just forget the seriousness of this place and talk about some alternatives in the form of lights out and such idiots. It just doesn't fit in a place like this. I think even laughter when someone says something like that here doesn't suit us all either. Of course, families are waiting for this help. There's no doubt about it. Some will not be happy that they didn't get it, but that's just the best we can do. Some say that we need to pursue a comprehensive family-friendly policy. Of course I do. But if, here in this room, we talk about achievements, for example, in the form of a huge number of crèches, then I personally have doubts, because I can say both as a parent, as a tutor and as a doctor, that in some cases this is a necessary evil, but it is certainly not a good place to raise little children. They better have a different option so that their parents at least have a choice and that they can be raised by one of the people, most often by their mother, who will stay at home. I hear here about a year's vacation. Well, it's a very cool solution, but I don't know if you know, but only part of it, a small part of me have are people who get a job, and all the rest of us work on different kinds of trash contracts, contracts, students, etc. Only 1/3 of my mom gets a year's maternity leave. So this is not a good solution from a systemic point of view, because we do not want children to be born in 1/3 of families, but in all. So, of course, other pro-family ideas need to be developed, but certainly the first and fundamental problem of Polish families who have children is poverty, of which there is no doubt. Where there is poverty, all other problems are born, including pathology. And they are so afraid of those who say not to give money, but to decide what these families get. There's nothing more important than family. That's why I have to say that I don't know if you all know 'Cause not everyone here uses electronic media. But I have read that it is already sent or it will be sent by the PO club in a moment, as Mr Sławomir Neumann informed, a letter to the President asking us to veto a bill that we have not yet voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation... When I hear the Senators of the Platform who say that they're in general for that they can change things and so on, I'm starting to misunderstand something. 'Cause where are we? Ladies and gentlemen, we all have one last chance in this Chamber to vote for this law and participate in the great day of Polish families. This is a great historic opportunity. I will certainly cast my vote in favour of this law and urge all those who think alone, also on the side of the opposition, to consider whether it is worthwhile or not to join this great opportunity, this great holiday. Christmas, which families will celebrate after the President has signed this bill today or in the next few days. I appeal to you to join this good side of power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u280	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland ranks number 216 on 224 countries in terms of fertility. The CSO expects us to be less than 34 million in 2050 and to be an ageing society. At the same time, the threat to social life and our economy is not only an ageing society, but also a continuous emigration of Poles. It is therefore difficult for the responsible state to sit back and watch this demographic collapse and its social, political, economic and cultural consequences. If the Polish authorities do not take care of the population situation, we will not catch up with the countries of the European Union economically. It is therefore important to look at children not as a budget burden, but as an investment. We're kind of at a historic moment right now. After 1989, there are two key moments for the country's family policy. The first was in 2007, when the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński carried out a tax relief on children in parliament. For the first time, historically speaking, the state after 1989 saw that the citizen had children and children as an important element in the state tax dimension. It was a historic breakthrough because it started thinking in Poland that children are not a burden on the budget As the neoliberal school says Children are an investment in the future. The family plays a very important role in the economy. After all, it is not only a community of life and love, but also an economic unit. Each member is a creative potential, which is the real wealth of the nation. Modern economy defines this creative potential as human capital. It provides an economic future for society as a whole, and it is based on a natural family that creates this capital, because in it comes the transfer of life, the upbringing of the young generation and the preparation of it for social life. The family is therefore the basis for a healthy society and a healthy economy. Professor Gary Becker, an American scholar from the University of Chicago, a 1992 Nobel Prize Prize winner in economics, particularly emphasized in his work: family rank. He said, "Why is family so important?" What is the economic and social significance of the family? First of all, the family has a first-rate role in raising children. It's obvious. Parents not only give life, but also provide values, teach them. It's what we call human capital in economics. Human capital is the capital that lies in people, in the form of their training, education and other qualities that make them efficient, healthy and desirable. In a modern economy This is Professor Becker. More than 80% all capital lies in people, not machines, not wealth and not money. If in Poland you disregard human capital and take only other forms of capital under consideration, you will disregard the most serious form of capital in modern society. There is no growth without investment in human capital, and the basis of human capital is the family. That's what Professor Gary Becker said. In 1995 in Warsaw. I am glad, and I would like to congratulate the government, that after many discussions, after many different concepts that confused family policy with social policy, after many experiments, after many seemingly obvious statements that children are of no importance, capital, influx of capital, investment and this determines the image of the economy, we begin to see the value of human capital, we begin to see the value of human capital. Because imagine that a taxable person who does business can deduct a carpet when he buys it from his office. And the father of the family and the mother who produce In quotation marks Human capital, i.e. preparing a future citizen, a future employee, the person who will contribute to the development of society with his abilities, is punished by the state VAT system. Because it is well-known that in the family you have to buy food, you have to buy services, you have to buy goods, you have to use electricity, you have to use the media, and all this is covered with VAT or VAT and excise and where there are more people in the family, this is a particularly noticeable burden. Therefore, the State should take into account the taxpayer's family situation in its policy and should encourage this human capital to be No, in quotes Manufactured, i.e. So that families can have and raise their children. And that is why I would like to thank the government once again for this bill. I would also like to emphasise what the media is not saying much about, that this is part of a whole wide family support programme. It's not just one element. This programme consists of a whole range of elements: the relief I mentioned, for example, housing policy, such as the work that will probably start soon, to make the labour market more flexible for women and mothers who want to combine their work with the raising of children. It is about creating a system so that a woman has the right to choose, not being forced on economic grounds to work and give children to the collective care system. So that it is not that it simply is not able to pursue itself professionally at all, because if it raises children, it falls out of the labour market. And this is the modern family policy that the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło is implementing. I don't really understand the part of the opposition that goes against this program. I have the impression that the opposition has become entangled in its own ideas. In August, Prime Minister Kopacz said that the budget could not afford such a programme at the moment, and when we propose a programme, which is a compromise between the possibilities of the state budget and real support for the family Of course you'd like more, but that's the possibility of a budget We hear that the Platform is trying to top this program by offering a witness for every child, which, as experts have calculated, would cost more than 30 billion, or 10%. the state budget. This is unsupportable; public finances would collapse completely. High Izbo, I think that after this debate we are closer to the real and reasonable view of this programme. This program is worth the support. This is a historic moment for family policy in Poland after the 1989 changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u282	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[The Senator presents a large board with a table containing the foundation of the program Troska 500+.]] I'm asking for an extension... I'm gonna have to extend this seminar. I've already had one success. The previous speaker, Senator Jackowski, said that this way of taxing the family means putting a loop on the families. The more children, the more VAT for the state, the less. This is deeply unfair, deeply non-family. Why would a child who doesn't have income pay almost the same amount of tax? What's a grown-up? 500+ is an additional tax approval. But I'm also a failure, sorry. Here I thought I had already convinced the senator or senator of Minister Radziwiłł, but the minister is sending me to Korea, North Korea's notabene... Minister, we will go together because you are the largest Korean in our country because you provide the most services to society. All you have to do is give me a talon in the form of a health book, and I think I'm going to get the biggest benefits that this country is giving me. [[And no VAT.]] [[Mr. Marshal, what are these runways?]] VAT. Minister, this is obviously a joke. The Minister is known for his openness and is not offended. And another word to my friend. I was also a peasant, a goat a shepherd. Senator Chróścikowski. The Lord says that the law on state support in raising children is very good. Please indicate to me at least one word, except for the title, one paragraph of the Act, which contains the educational element. There are many anti-breeding passages here, even though they are divided, even by the fact that you forget about the disabled and, for example, by forgetting people who raise children alone. But I'm moving on to my version of the program to convince the Minister... We have nine benefits here, Minister. I'm starting with what you're already offering, as a witness. I just want there to be more. I'm assuming. I think we'll agree on that. That every parent, whether he gets the money in hand or not, must perform a service for his children. Free medications and medical supplies. If a child gets sick, will a responsible parent refuse to buy a cure? He won't say no. It's just that some people, unfortunately, aren't gonna get it. Free dental and eye treatment. Each child is undergoing dental examination and treatment. For every other child, such intervention is required today. It's best to be taken up in school, not in a company. Sanitas or private, with or without VAT. Such services are already provided, but not everywhere and not all. Especially in the countryside, Mr. Senator Chróścikowski... There's no help, that's where the children have caries and poor eyesight. Free textbooks and educational aids. It's already here. That's what introduced the Platform. This applies to several countries. [[Publishers have already made money.]] The senator, sending me to Korea, wants each parent to run and look for textbooks at better or worse prices. You'd better let the school organize it. Free school communication and for pregnant women, as well as free medicines for pregnant women. Why? Pregnant women's medications are quite cheap or almost free, but in case of pregnancy pathology a woman must spend, unpack out of her own pocket 200.300 zł. I think that answers the PiS. Here's the answer to the baby's question. Free school insurance. Everyone's got to get school insurance. I say that out of these 500 PLN... if the State imposes obligations, it should participate in their fulfilment and act so that the fulfilment of these obligations is possible for everyone. The witnessing... [[Time's up, Senator.]] That's point six. Educational provision of PLN 400 per month. This, Mr. Marshal... [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] [[This is not the time to make a cabaret out of this House.]] Mr. Marshal, this is important. I said this bill has no educational element. Here I propose that there be money in school not only for trips, but also for compensatory and sports classes, co-education and organization. The school's gonna get the resources to be able to provide educational services. [[I mean, you guys are...]] Family benefits in the form of benefits. Here would be the vouchers... [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm gonna take this off. Unless someone wants to take advantage of it... [[No. Mr. Marshal, how much can I get?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Jackie, it's the Platform that's curling up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u284	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not assist me in the proceedings. I'm fine. Mr. Senator, I'd like you to adjourn. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Nutchowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! As I observe the discussion, I conclude that you are champions. Really. [[The delusions!]] You're masters of manipulation. [[Bravo!]] The 500+ program clearly states: 500 PLN per child from the second one and the first one on the corresponding income. Just cut something, comma put not where it needs to be, add either And there's such manipulation that you don't need a better one. You're the champions of the game. If you don't decide the economy, you'll give away everything and everything. Even not in Poland, maybe even outside. You're the champions of making Poles fools. You will not give them 500 PLN now, but you will give them more, later, to all and for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, be serious. Young people expect a bill, young people count on it. I work with them, meet them in my office every day. I know what their financial situation is like. They're really not pathological families, they're not drunks, they're not crooks. These are people who work hard to make ends meet. Show that you are indeed champions, show that you are great, vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u286	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u287	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not a member of the Civic Platform, I didn't make a proposal to double my expenses. I'll tell you more: the proposal seems strange to me, although I understand the intentions... It's just that... [[To top...]] No. The point was to remind you that the original proposal was 500 PLN per child. But I believe that making such proposals formally, in the form of amendments, proposals, etc. it threatens that they will not be properly understood, so I will say gently. And of course I'm not for it. I'm responsible. The thing, ladies and gentlemen, is not that this money will be wasted. I absolutely do not share the views of those who say that people will drink it, and this, and that, etc. Well, there's gonna be people, of course, it's pretty clear. But you can't put it like that. Of course, money will be of great use to families with children, and there is no doubt about it. The problem is that such proposals, solutions that will help different social groups and which are right, well-founded, are a whole lot. Therefore, if we decide on something, then the question is only what extent we can do it today. And I say again... we're not gonna find each other here. Do you believe... You were here, Senator Wind, who said: I believe that we will make this money. That's right, you believe me, and I'm based on hard data, numbers, and the government hasn't come up with a way of financing in the years to come, where he's gonna get the money, that's all. And I therefore believe, although this is an important issue, perhaps even a priority, that it should be spread over time. That's when we're gonna make the money, then we're gonna spend it. Next year Not 17 billion, I'm sure. What is the funding, I have already said: from the deficit and from two additional taxes. Well, I'm very sorry, but that's the kind of success that any government can theoretically achieve. But if he's responsible, he's never gonna get into it, he's not gonna promise people that it's gonna be without consequences. Because the result will be that next year, next year, there will be a lack of resources... There is no shortage at all, but there will be expectations that medical care will improve, there will be more money for equipment, more money for nurses, for investments in this field, in education, in kindergartens, daycare, etc. And all of a sudden, there's no money. And spending on public investment will have to be limited, because the alternative will be to increase deficits or new taxes. That's why I think it was an electoral slogan, it was so arranged, it was supposed to attract voters, and I think to some extent it has achieved this effect. Today it aroused hope, so it must be realized. But, I'm sorry, I didn't put up that slogan, and I don't think it's possible to do it on that scale. I was also talking about the social impact issue. There is a social impact in this programme, but uneven, with shortcomings. I'm sorry, but if you want to socialize... Senator Radziwiłł spoke here about many families. Yes, sir, there you go, set a income threshold for families of one-year-olds, two-children, five-children. And it's clear that when it comes to families of four, - Five. - Six. - Seven. - Eight children, almost every family will be below this income threshold and will benefit from this program. If you don't, then suddenly the money will be given to people who are absolutely not going to make any significant change. I repeat, no significant change. And finally, the last thing I didn't talk about. It's about the second purpose of the program, that is to say, increasing childhood. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I am aware. that in certain groups, especially in low income groups, in groups with very unstable employment an additional 500 PLN or 1 thousand PLN, if there are three children, is important, may even make such a family decide to have another child. But, ladies and gentlemen, for sanity's sake... If there is one child in the family and the average income in this family is 2 thousand PLN per person, or 6 thousand PLN per family, then this additional 500 PLN really will not cause them to decide for another child, absolutely not. There are completely different factors here. Here we talked about international comparisons. There you go. For countries where fertility is high They are countries such as, among others. France, the United Kingdom, Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, please state that this allowance for a child counted in euro cannot be compared with ours, but we must look at the ratio of this allowance to the average wage in this country, whether it is a great stimulus or not. Well, I'm telling you... [[Time's up.]] I would like to inform you that in the UK it is 3%, in Sweden 3%, in the Netherlands 2% , in Denmark, 3%, in Finland, 3%. So it's not this element that causes your fertility rate to be there, it's basically a broadly understood service for the family, as well as the availability of housing. Unfortunately, there are no proposals in these cases at the moment. You say they will, but they will require billions of zlotys, and the 17 billion issue this year, 23 billion in the next year, will absolutely block the possibility of spending funds for other purposes mentioned. That is why the demographic objective will not be achieved by this law. And finally, Mr. Marshal, one more thing. It's said here that 280,000 children... This is a number, let's face it, taken from the ceiling, but, well, I take it that's the forecast, that in 10 years so many children will be born additionally. That's about 8%, ladies and gentlemen. number of births in Poland per year. So that's our fertility rate of 1.3. It's going to be 1.4, from spot 210, we're going to be promoted to place 200. That doesn't add up at all. And something completely in the end. As a result, 800,000 zlotys will cost one birth, 800,000 zlotys, and the in vitro program • here I look at Minister Radziwiłłł, this time Minister It cost 130 million PLN, 3,000 children were born, or about 40,000 children cost one birth. But the Minister said that for this program I may even get it. There's no money fund, and that's what 23 billion are for. Yes? Ladies and gentlemen, for 1 billion zlotys, we have a year... [[Mr. Senator, go ahead.]] Now. Last word. For 1 billion PLN of in vitro funding we have the same annual increase as the one that results from 200 billion spent over 10 years. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We're gonna make a children's factory, right?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u288	You may speak to Senator Wojtyla. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u289	Because Senator Borowski called my name, I have a right to be corrected. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Senator Borowski quoted my alleged statement... [[I didn't say that.]] ...saying that Senator Wind said, quote: "I believe that the government will make this money." Well, that wasn't the word, Mr. Senator. Yes, I was talking about the committee's budget meetings, but those weren't the words. Apparently, Senator Borowski likes to refer to me and to my statements. Whoever was in the courtroom and listened knows that those words didn't come out. I'm not gonna comment on that, nor am I gonna comment on the fact that in the last sentence, Senator Borowski misjudged the cost of birth with the cost of upbringing. Those are a little different concepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u290	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have 5 other people who have signed up for the vote. I predict that the debate will take about an hour. And if the list of speakers does not extend significantly, we expect the vote to take place today. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u291	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senate, I would like to respond to one purpose... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...what the bill we're discussing is for a demographic purpose. It must be said that this objective is now the most important one. Why? In order to analyze demographic phenomena, we need to analyze them over the long term. I will say here that the first demographic summit after the war was in the 1950s. In 1955, nearly 800,000 children were born. The second summit was 1983. And by the end of the 1970's and early 1980's, there was again an increase in births. And now we have a time when the period of entering the reproductive age of those just from the '80s demographic summit ends. And now... There is a discussion here as to whether it makes sense to introduce some impulses that will increase birth. Such an impulse was introduced in the 1980s. Various experts say whether or not it was aware that it was a coincidence. Of course, there were many reasons, but surely the main reason was that in the 1970's he entered the adult age of the 1950's. It was a period... Twenty-two-year-olds were very dynamic and they started socio-political changes in Poland. Sources, experts explain that in order to meet the needs of this young crowd, which entered into the age of activity, first of all professionally, a pronatistic policy was introduced to increase fertility among Poles. And no one is questioning that the demographic effect was achieved at that time. In 1983 there were 740 thousand birthdays and 2.44 children for every woman of childbearing age, i.e. above the simple replacement of generations, i.e. reproduction in a straight line. During the break we talked with Senator Rulewski about the fact that the pro-family policy of other countries cannot be compared to the pro-family policy of Poland. Because countries where the number of children per woman of childbearing age is now approaching 2 or more than 2, are Scandinavian countries, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Iceland and France. In the Seym debate, Germany was often referred to. Ladies and gentlemen, Germany has very inefficient social and family policies. And nowhere in the literature does experts consider this policy to be exemplary. This is a very inefficient pro-family policy that does not have any effect in terms of increasing births. Next, third peak of births... It was expected to fall from 2011 to 2013, as this would result from a large number of births in the 1980s. Of course, this was not the case. In 2009, earlier than expected... At that time, only over 420 thousand births were obtained. The number of births is now falling. And this is the last moment to encourage women to have a second child and others. I would like to remind you that women who were born in 1983 are already 33 years old. In politics, you have to think coolly and calculate. You can't give in to emotions. Therefore, it is right that the second and the next child is financed. Because most women who were born in the 1980s have already had their first child. The research that has been done in Poland shows that 90% of families want to have children. First child, one child would like to have 90% But as far as the next kids are concerned, they'd like to have them, but that's an economic condition. And these solutions that we are discussing today, this effect can bring. There are doubts as to whether financial benefits are effective in terms of the number of births. Of course, those who say that these are short-term effects are right, because granting a financial benefit results in quantum, which is a short-term period of increasing births. This must result in a policy that reduces the age of women's reproduction. And only if the quantum effect results in an acceleration of entering the reproductive age and an increase in the number of children born will this result in an overall effect. I hope that the bill that we are discussing right now is the beginning of the whole pro-family policy. I would like to say that we can not only compare ourselves with the successful Scandinavian countries, but also refer to the 1980s, when the impulses to encourage families to have more children have been introduced and have been effective. Unfortunately, such impulses were not introduced in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and we obtained a demographic effect in the form of half of what we expected, and he was only one year old. At the moment we have demographic depression, which we can only fight through the implementation of this law. It was said here that increasing the fertility rate to 1.6 is small. demographic impact. Ladies and gentlemen... [[To 1.4.]] At the moment, it's 1.29 and 1.4 or 1.6. ...to get a demographic effect in Poland at the moment, when it enters the reproductive age of the nineties... It would have been a big success if we had achieved such a demographic effect for 20 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u292	Thank you very much. Perfect in time. Please take the floor of Senator Silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that, at last, after a period of underappreciation and even discrimination against the family, we are dealing with this law that has been proposed to us. I would like to remind briefly the history of discrimination against the Polish family, which began shortly after 1989, and whose beginning was that the provisions of the law were abolished on parental leave. I remember how astonished I was when this law saw the light of day, as these vacations were a great benefit to families. I myself had two children, and only because this law existed, my wife could suspend her professional activities for a period of six years and devote herself to raising two children. The next steps, ladies and gentlemen, were various absurd tax solutions, which so far exist and whose removal will probably be our goal. I would like to remind you, for example, that there are solutions that discriminate against the family as regards the employment of the closest person by the person carrying out the business, because when such a person, a member of the family hires, he pays higher taxes than in the case of the employment of a foreign person, he pays higher ZUS contributions, and he cannot include in the cost of the economic activity of the salary paid to the person employed solely because he is the closest person, most often the spouse. That is why I believe that the PiS government made great progress in 2005 and was the first government to give something to society after 1989, namely I would like to remind you that during the election campaign that took place last year, first of all, it reduced the rate of income tax, second of all, it practically abolished the inheritance tax and donations, which was an even wicked tax. Let us remind you that at the moment it is practically eliminated, for it is enough that within six months of the death of a loved one, a declaration on the amount of inherited property will be made in the Social Security Office. At that time, this tax is not paid. And finally, thirdly, he introduced pro-family reliefs. This law is part of the continuation of this program of restoring the subjectivity of the society and improving the existence of the Polish family. Of course, it is possible, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss whether it is to be one or another model, or to introduce a system proposed by the States of the Civic Platform, it is about making the amount of this benefit dependent on the level of income. Or put in place a system of deduction of benefits by the amount by which the income per person in the family exceeds... so that at the income of up to 800 PLN this benefit is lost, only to be reduced proportionally... Ladies and gentlemen, these are strictly technical discussions. I'll remind you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] I will remind you that the model that we are adopting here actually has a pattern in the French model, which was in force and still largely in force. There it is assumed that the benefit is only granted from the second child; it is only then that the benefit is received. Many other countries have a similar solution. We went further because we assumed that the benefit of PLN 500 was also payable to the first child, provided that the income does not exceed PLN 800 per person. This is therefore a more progressive solution than that which is in France and in many other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not by chance that, as I say, the starting point is the second child. One child is a minimum that practically every family decides to do, every marriage. I think everyone wants a baby. The unfortunate thing is, because of pure poverty, you have to say so. This is the determining factor, 75%. For this reason, spouses refrain from having children They don't grow, they don't grow, they don't grow children in these families. Hence from the second child the payment of this benefit, which is quite reasonable. I would appeal, I ask you, that you adopt this law, knowing that you would work longer, the more you consider different pros and cons, the more you analyze other models, perhaps more competitive... But it's time. I think it is necessary to adopt a solution that will actually help Polish families. As this law will work in practice, possible additions can be introduced over time. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but right now, I say it a little to relax the atmosphere, the opposition behaves just like the father of the child who was drowning. Someone saved this child, and instead of coming and thanking him, he asked: Okay, sir, but where's the bathing cap? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you are acting as an opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: It's not about the hat.]] ...they still have to learn how to be an opposition. Please take the floor of Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few hours ago, the Minister was standing here explaining herself, actually explaining why she wanted to give people money. Please note the paradox: the Minister did not explain why she wanted to take people's money, impose more taxes, restrict citizens' rights and freedoms, but she was forced to do so, including the Law and Justice. To explain that we want to give people money, and it is for a good cause, because so that these people simply have more children, so that more children are born in the Polish country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way of the debate. We don't have to explain anything. The question is why... [[Applause]] The question is why in this House, unfortunately also in this House, but also in the Seym, this law has created such great passions and so great countermeasures. Well, there are several reasons. Firstly, because it can be effective and likely to be effective. No one can say anything about future and uncertain events, but we can say very likely that it will be effective. Secondly, this bill is simple. She gets to most voters, they understand her, not much of it, they're waiting for her. Therefore, one of the elements of this law is also the date of its implementation: 1 April. Therefore, we proceed quickly, that in public awareness, this law already functions, it already functions as in force from 1 April. People will want to apply from April 1st. We're gonna make it possible for them, and let's not bother them. And thirdly, that's why she's objecting to the fact that she's being raised by the PiS. She didn't report it to the Platform, even though she was a couple of years old. She may have come up with this idea, but she didn't have the courage to make it happen, she didn't want it. And I'm sure what they were doing wasn't working. Dear colleagues from the Platform and Dear colleagues I'm gonna turn around like this. What assurance do we have that your rations from this speaker are true, is correct, since you, in the case of not one idea, have not been able to achieve what you have intended for the last eight years in terms of demographics? Maybe you wanted to introduce some ideas, even introduce them, but they didn't work, they didn't work. So how can we be sure now what is the probability that your next idea will be effective? Minimum. We only have one, that's... Here is a certain handicap: we do for the first time what others have already done, it has been checked in other countries throughout Western Europe. Paradoxically, I have heard very different arguments against this law: and that there was no opinion of the Legislative Office, and that we should quote maybe There's a bad way to process, and there's an expensive program, and it's unreal when it comes to income issues. Yes, many of these arguments have been made, but, ladies and gentlemen, most of these arguments lead to absurdity. Because on the one hand, you are trying to extend this law in the subjective layer so that it requires even more resources, and on the other hand, you argue that it is unrealistic when it comes to implementation. You have to decide something, simply because otherwise you get schizophrenic: in one place you say it, in the other something else and it's just contradictory. And now maybe a few positive things. The first is that this is probably the first law in which the state states that it cares about the children of its citizens, it simply cares about these children. These children are no longer orphans in the sense that they are not only children of their own families, they are also children expected by the state. And the State will assist these families in their upbringing, such is the title of the Act and that is the purpose of the Act. The second objective of "Perhaps" here was not much said about it, as well as the effect, not only the goal, but also the effect which will, I hope, be achieved, be equalizing the differences. Ladies and gentlemen, the 500 zloty that a poor family gets for a child will be very much for this family, and if the same 500 zloty gets a richer family, it will be much less for her, but from the point of view of these families, at least subjectively, there is equal levels. The same is true when it comes to field matters. This 500 zloty in some village, let it be on the east wall The east wall will forgive me. It means much more. [[We forgive.]] ...than in a big city; may it be Warsaw, and Warsaw will also forgive me. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a levelling of differences, and Law and Justice have always gone in this direction towards equalling differences. Not to divide, divide, divide society, but to level the gap. And it is true that our action cannot end on this bill, because the worst thing would be if more children and these children, well educated, were born in Poland, would not find a job here and went after bread to the so-called West. We need to make sure that the children who are born here stay here and find jobs here. I hope that the opposition will help us in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u296	Thank you very much. I don't see Senator Pociej. Senator Chudowska, please take the floor. Senator Comforter is speaking, but I don't see him in the O.R. If he comes back, he'll speak. [[Mr. Marshal, is it possible for a replica to...]] Of course. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u297	Mr. Senator said he's been directing his words to the Civic Platform for the past years, to the PSL, to the previous government. It's the words you didn't manage to stop this negative trend. I would like to inform the senator that for the first time in 2014 more children were born in many years than in the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u298	Sorry, this isn't a discussion. Mr. Senator, you're in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u299	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We've been debating the State Aid Act for raising children for hours now. All the substantive assumptions concerning the bill were presented by Minister Elżbieta Rafalska. The Minister also referred to many doubts and questions of the senators. It would seem that a wise head was quite two words, but during the debate the same accusations were still raised. I will no longer repeat all the good, substantive comments that have been made in the debate and on the one hand and on the other. I've prepared them here, but I don't want to repeat them. My speech will take the form of polemics. The Senators of Law and Justice will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. We are pleased that the Senator of PSL and one independent senator will also vote in favour of the bill. In our debate there have been many untruthful words I would even say: wicked statements, which cannot be silenced. First of all, it's been said that we tricked the voters. That's a perverse lie. Once again, I would like to see all the gentlemen and ladies of the opposition... It's hard for me to do that. I've been in opposition for four years and suddenly I'm not in opposition anymore. I mean, not all of a sudden, but it's hard to get used to. I would like to say to the gentlemen and ladies of the opposition that the 500+. family programme was presented for the first time at the Congress of Law and Justice in Katowice at the beginning of July 2015. We left there with flyers in which the program was described What it will depend on and what its sources of funding will be. It wasn't enough. We had a beautiful duty to introduce him to the election conferences. And it's a lie to say that we talked about every child. From the beginning it was a program, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, for every other child, and the first one depending on income. It's been said here before. Secondly, there were many opinions here that we share children with this bill. And that's... It is even more wicked to talk about the 500+ programme that we share children in this way. Minister Rafalska emphasized that this is not money for little Janek or little Ani, it is not, ladies and gentlemen, pocket money that we give to children. This is the money we give our parents to help them raise their children. I'm really keeping you from telling the public what you're doing in advertising, saying that we share children. It will pass the PiS, it will pass the PO, it will pass the PSL, and the sense of harm in children will remain. I warn against such a false ideology of our work and our project for Poles. Thirdly, it is said here that this program will create disappointment, and I am convinced that it will be the opposite. As I already mentioned in the course of the questioning, the election went to more than 50% eligible, i.e. more than 40% weren't interested in any election programs at all. No good, no bad, no PO, no PiS, no PSL, no Kukiz.15 They just don't go to the election. And I think he's gonna be a pleasant surprise to them now. Maybe they'll even think of it as a smile of fate. That suddenly comes from the commune notification that they can volunteer and get help for their family. There won't be any disappointment here unless you continue lyingly to say that we share society and share children. Fourthly, you question the assumption that this program will affect demographics. There were many statements presenting more or less optimistic hopes that it would, however, affect. But even if it didn't, the child is the most important and best Polish capital. A lot of senators were talking about it. And if this money were only to reduce the poverty of Polish families, which was also said a lot, if it were to help only to make those children who are already better fed, better treated, have better access to education, to sport, to entertainment and grow up hopeful, and not bitter citizens, it will already be a success. Even if this witness was to serve only those children who are already there. Because there's no more important investment than a human being, and I think we can all agree on that. And fifthly, many opposition senators regret that this program is at the expense of the taxpayer. The Senators, and which law we have passed here is not at the expense of the taxpayer? All State costs are taxable costs. And we don't work at the taxpayer's expense? I think we should avoid this kind of hypocrisy. After all, in the name of solidarity of generations, we accept taxes. Let me give you a personal accent: I don't have my own children, but I don't mind my taxes going to other children's education, to other children's treatment, because I'm taking advantage of the work of previous generations. I believe that generational solidarity applies to us. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think... [[Quiet, please.]] I think there is no need for lectures in this Chamber on the importance of solidarity between generations. And finally, our recent debates abound with the kind of golden thoughts of the Senators of the Civic Platform... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please turn off your electronic devices.]] I'll do it again. Recent debates abound with the kind of golden thoughts of the Senators of the Civic Platform. An example of the previous debate: only those who have something to hide work at night. It was said today that PiS children would be born. Another thought: when someone is rich, they clearly worked hard. Mr. Senator Dowhan, I have a patient who lives in a village near Legnica. He gets up every morning at 4:00 a.m., as he says, he's going to work in the Japanese zone, which is under Wroclaw. That's what she says. Those aren't my words. And he's standing up, he's got two 15-minute bathroom breaks and breakfast, and he's standing by the machine. If he's got a good month, he'll make $1,000,600 net. She doesn't work hard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u300	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today's plan is that if the number of votes is not changed, the committee meeting will take place around 9:00 p.m. and the vote will take place at 10:00 p.m. Please take the floor of Senator Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a senator for the first time. This is my first term. Listening to some of my predecessors, I wondered if there was a Stańczyk in this room, a royal jester we know, he would be as puzzled as in Matejka's painting, or some of the speeches would make him laugh. High Izbo, I would like to refer to the statements of some of my predecessors, of course, the opposition senators who accuse the Law and Justice of electoral fraud. Once one of the leaders of the Civic Platform promised Poles that anyone who offered to raise taxes would be removed from the government by him. That is the point, High Izbo, that these promises have not been kept. These were promises of linear tax, 3×15 tax, etc. Meanwhile, VAT, excise duty on fuel, pension contributions, taxation of bank accounts, removal of construction relief, etc., I'm not talking about OFE anymore. High Izbo, Center im. Adam Smith calculated that the maintenance and upbringing of a child up to the age of 20 would require a small amount of PLN 200,000. I think this bill in some part He'll compensate his parents for raising their children. I would also like to say that the European Commission and the OECD have stated that for demographic reasons, Poland after 2030 will be the worst, least developing European country. I think we'd like to stop this trend. All the more so that statistically 76% Poles want to have 2 or 3 children, at the same time 52% Mothers don't want to send their children to nursery. What is the prosperity of our country? Well, it's 49.3%. Poles are not able to cover unexpected expenditure of PLN 1 thousand from household resources. The determinant of poverty, ladies and gentlemen, is the number of children. And so in Poland under conditions below extreme poverty lives 2,7% marriages with 1 child, 4.5% out of 2 children, 11.2% out of 3 children, almost 27% out of 4 children, and almost 69% of Poles live in the sphere of poverty or are people at risk of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I think that the adoption of this law, proposed by the Sejm, will certainly improve the situation of many, many Polish families. And I've got it right here. Also appealing to colleagues from the Platform to... one of my predecessors here said that this bill is our flagship. So get them on that ship and come with us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u302	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine. Second appearance, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u303	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It must certainly be recognised that family financial benefits are very low in Poland. Their uplift is necessary. And we're not, as a Civic Platform, against this program. We're not. However, we have reservations about this programme. Not because we want to tease someone, and not just because we want to remind them of their election promises. We say that we need to construct this program so that it does not discriminate. Wanting or accidentally... I'm sure it wasn't an accident when it came to children, but in fact, families... So that he doesn't differentiate families who bear the burden of caring for children. That's why we've tabled amendments. It's not just to tease someone, it's to be absolutely serious. And we're gonna keep going in that direction. We know the financial conditions. We know what it's like. You can discuss how much this is going to be in the next few years. But I would like to announce that we will not stop at this act. And believe me, as you seek partners among us, so we will seek partners among you to construct this program even better than it is today. We'll make the right proposals. That is why we think it would be better to hold back a little, even for a few months, so that we can discuss all of this in an optimal situation, given the possibilities of the budget. And I just want to say... Of course, we would like to vote in favour if you would agree to some changes concerning people with disabilities and the mechanism of gold for the gold. I'm not talking about putting everyone on the show anymore. But if there were even these two changes, we would definitely vote in favour. And just one more word. Ladies and gentlemen, here are such estimates that the programme in question will bring the economy back to life. The numbers were dropping... Well, you can't disagree with Marshal Borowski that this Keynesov method of activating the economy with budget money only works in the short run and works badly if it's financed with debt. A little praise. The budget that we're about to process doesn't seem to exceed the prudential thresholds. It is clear that you are trying to finance this programme without increasing the budget deficit. If we can keep it going like this, we'll just clap. And let's look for optimal solutions, because the current solution is certainly not optimal yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u304	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dobkowski. [[Five minutes for you. Mr. Marshal, five minutes!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[I can't do this anymore.]] We participate in the procession and adoption of a law which has not yet been in Poland. Not only for the last 26 years, but there has never been a law that would consist in handing over part of the budget appropriations to families with children up to the age of eighteen. This is contemporary solidarity, which means that all adult citizens make up for helping families with children. There are a lot of families waiting for the bill. The bill is criticized because it doesn't include all children. Yeah, it doesn't include all the kids. But it is not true that it only covers children from the second height, because it also includes the first child if the income in the family does not exceed 800 PLN per person. And it includes all families who have a second and a third child. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] I've been thinking about this situation: the family has one child and there's no... [[Adam, say thank you to this gentleman.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't disturb me, Mr. Dobrzyński. The family has one child and has such income that they have no payment from this program. But if she has two children, then it may be that she will receive 1 thousand zlotys, i.e. she will receive one for the first and the second child, because she will decrease her income for one member of the family. If the family now has two children and a payment only to the other child, after the birth of the third child, it can receive a payment even for three children, because then the income on one member of the family will be reduced and 1 thousand 500 PLN will be paid. Most marriages in Poland have one child. The law also includes families, but only those with low income. Since marriage has not yet decided to have one child, it is certain that 500 PLN will not encourage them to have a child. But if anyone already has a child, this bill will encourage him to have a second and another child. That's why it's right for this bill to be in such a form. It is simply that way that it may have a demographic effect. This is the most fair thing at this point. It also means that no child should be hungry and that poverty should be reduced in our beloved homeland. It is said that many parents raising children after receiving financial support will not want to work because they will not be paid. But I wouldn't break a copy because of it, 'cause if my mother's gonna be paying more money to raise her kids, that's good. This place of work that she's gonna leave for maybe an unemployed man to come to. This will reduce unemployment, as well as state support, which will simply reduce unemployment measures. That's what we're gonna get. The Sejm also presented alternative proposals for tax relief, but only those who have a job and pay taxes can benefit from tax relief. Those who don't pay taxes won't get that relief, so they just won't get anything. So this is not a good alternative proposal. The opposition's proposed law on all children would require an additional 20 billion zlotys. And in this situation, the budget can't afford it. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, I believe that the Law on State Aid in Raising Children is a breakthrough. It's the most real thing in the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u306	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Comfort. Can we close the list right now? 'Cause every now and then... [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes, yes.]] Good. I'm closing the list of speakers. [[Thank you.]] [[Finally.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking with an experienced speaker like Senator Dobkowski is not easy. I would very much like to comment on this complex lecture, why 500 PLN for the first child will not encourage but will encourage the second one. But I think much more important, at least for me, is the problem of what I don't see in this bill. I have no doubt that we are dealing with a very important issue here. Each of us, on the left and on the right side of this room, has no doubt that demography in Poland is a huge challenge. There's only one thing missing from this bill. A tax mechanism that would also be returned to the middle class, because 500 PLN per child, as you know... Each of you runs a senator's office. And you know very well that in some parts of the country, 10,000 PLN or 12 thousand PLN for running a senator's office is huge money, because the costs are such and not different. So it's huge money. And since there are also senators from large centres, you also know that the same 12 thousand zlotys, which are intended for an office in Warsaw and for employees in Warsaw, are completely different money. There's no distinction here... I mean, there's no motivation that would be spread out between the poor and the rich. In France, it is probably the only country in which such an action was successful, the idea of increasing the childhood of the country was proven to be related to taxes. And it was then directed both to the poor and to the rich or to the medium - wealthy. Unfortunately, this is the biggest problem for me of this bill. I will always argue that it is her disability that does not distinguish between the people to whom it is addressed, but used in it such a simple picking of 500 PLN. I am very sorry that the government and the authors of this bill did not refer it to people who could write something off from the tax. Firstly, then it could be completely different amounts, and secondly, it could save the state administration the service of a whole bunch of children, because it would be enough to write it off from the tax. It could also be mixed. I think the idea itself is, of course, very good. I'm going back to my first sentence. And we need it, because we need to have stimuli... We have to help many families. I'm all for it. I've got four kids myself. And I welcome this bill very warmly. All I need is for her to be directed at everyone, not just those to whom it will be worthwhile. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u308	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak, but I was moved by the decision of the Civic Platform, which on the one hand here says that this programme is in fact in favour and, on the other hand, asks President Andrzej Duda to veto this law. The Law and Justice Government, when proposing a bill on the support of the family in raising children, showed great responsibility, courage and farsightedness, even visionaryness. The 500+ family programme is not a programme aimed at the distribution of money. The 500+ family programme is part of the policy of the Government of Law and Justice, which wants to fix Poland, starting with something that has been and is the most important for our country, from the Polish family, but in parallel makes efforts It'll be over soon enough. And he struggles to repair the Polish economy so that, among other things, he will. The 500+ bill was intended to cover finance so that finance would be stable, so that in future years, when the programme would be a heavy burden for the state budget, which we admit openly, this burden could be met. If not for approval, we count on understanding our intentions. We are not thinking about the situation of our country only here and now, the 500+ programme is focused on the future of our homeland. We're looking to the future with a pinhole raised, and we don't want to put real problems away from each other. Even if it poses a real threat to the functioning and existence of the State, its biological structure. After all, this will also affect the economic development and stability of the Polish pension system. We want to think about all of this comprehensively. We want to solve these problems comprehensively and hope that we will find at least an approval for our actions. There's a term that works: gardener's dog. It defines a person who doesn't take something on his own, but doesn't let anyone else take it either. What is happening in our parliament, both in the Seym and in the Senate, could be said, by slightly modifying this Polish, not only the Polish saying that there are those who do not give themselves and others do not allow. This discussion ends in the Senate, and maybe it is good, because, when it comes to the issues that this discussion concerns, we agree about it, the less words, the less talking, the better the effects can be. So let the Government of Law and Justice implement law 500+ on 1 April this year and implement it for the sake of Polish families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u310	Thank you very much, Senator. And the last speaker in this debate, Senator Frost. [[There isn't.]] There's no senator. We're finishing the discussion. For the record, the Senators Mamotov, Łuczak and Ryszka have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would also like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by the Senators Augustine, Wczyła and Zając. The discussion is closed. I'm about to announce a recess until 9:30, but first there's an announcement on the case... [[Voice from the room: until 10 p.m.]] Oh, I'm sorry. 22... no, until 9:45. We'll extend it as long as we can.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u311	Message. The joint meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Law on State Aid in Child Education will be held today at 9 p.m. in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u312	I am yet to inform you that, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 46 to 21 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u313	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatski print no. 86 A. I'm sorry, I don't have a card... [[Voice from the room: Please.]] Okay, now I got it. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 85 in favour, two abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: the Law on State aid in raising children. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 87 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present a report on the joint meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which took place at the break of the Senate meeting. Today's committees discussed the proposals made during the debate on 12 February this year on the Law on State Aid to Raising Children and recommend that the High Senate adopt the Act in its basic form, without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u315	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Józef Zając, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Jerzy Wcisła submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 63 were in favour, 1 against, 26 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on State aid to raise children. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 10th Senate meeting has been exhausted. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the order of the next Senate meeting, convened for 17, 18 and 19 February, has already been sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? You're welcome, Senator Antoni Szymanski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your conversation quiet. There will be a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement on behalf of several senators, which is addressed to the Ambassador of Canada in Poland, Stephen de Boera. Dear Ambassador, We would like to share with you our surprise and concern about the publication of the book "Flight and Freedom" in Canada, Stories of Escape to Canada, Ratny Omidvar and Dany Wagner. This book provides information about the alleged ss, although this type of organization never existed. Without a doubt, this information defames and harms the Polish people. We are particularly sensitive to such false publications due to the experience of World War II. The Polish nation suffered unrepentant damage in connection with the German aggression, and in our lands the Germans organized the Holocaust. This type of false information causes pain to Poles who suffered many injuries and suffered many losses during World War II, all the more so because Poles massively opposed German aggression, fighting the invader. In connection with the release of the book "Flight and Freedom " Stories of Escape to Canada, thousands of Poles came to the publishing house which issued it with a demand to stop its distribution, correction and public apology from the publisher, which is fully understandable and expected. We believe that the drama of World War II, the situation of Poland and the worthy and heroic behaviour of Poles is to show according to historical truth. Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, Senator Andrzej Kaminski, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Czesław Ryszka, Senator Artur Warzocha, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and Antoni Szymański signed this letter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-12-senat-10-1.u317	Thank you very much, Senator. No one else signed up? No. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 10th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The tenth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 21 minutes 52]]
