ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Elżbieta Borowska, Mr Marcin Duszka, Mr Krzysztof Kubow and Ms Monica Wielichowska to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Elżbieta Borowska and Krzysztof Kubów. I consider the minutes of the 14th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Izbo! I would like to inform you that following the expiry of the mandate of Mr Jerzy Żyżyński on the basis of the article. I have decided to replace Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski with the electoral code, who has applied for the oath of a Member of Parliament. I ask the Member to approach the president's table. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u2	I promise. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u3	Thank you very much. I state that Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski has taken a vow of marriage. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following item from the agenda: Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law, prints No 219 and 324. The applicants withdrew the draft law amending the Labour Code Act, print No 307. Therefore, the item on the agenda which included the first reading of this draft law has become pointless. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the Public Procurement Law and certain other laws. The project is printing number 366. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Infrastructure Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - to prohibit the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices, - amending the Act on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through that territory, - to suspend the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury and to amend certain laws. The reports shall be in prints 351, 358 and 363 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in a joint discussion in the first readings: - a draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws, - draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on staff policy in companies with the participation of the State Treasury and institutions subordinate to the Council of Ministers, the presentation of which was requested by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal proposals have been made by Members. Mr Marian Zembala, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in a post-Christmas, family, spring atmosphere, to recall the character of the man who connects us all, who passed away prematurely a few days ago - Fr. Jan Kaczkowski. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Known to us, valued, taken as a role model. He was educated in Sopot. He studied philosophy and theology at a seminary in Gdansk and graduated in 2002 with a master's degree in theology. Remember, he was already born with left-handed weakness and a large defect of vision. In 2002 he was ordained a Presbyterate. He was appointed to the Archdiocese of Gdansk. In 2007 at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński in Warsaw on the basis of the distinguished dissertation of a man dying and helping people in the terminal state - he received a PhD in theological sciences. He kept his distance from this dissertation, but he always said: I made it better to understand the hardest ones to better understand the dying. In 2008 he graduated from bioethics at the Pontifical University of John Paul II in Cracow and since then taught students, also medical students, of which we are very proud, university students, but also high school students, he also taught bioethics classes at the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, regardless of his pastoral work and his role as a chaplain at the social assistance home and hospital in Puck. He founded Puckie Hospice House pw. St. Pio's father, he was his principal, his CEO. He was also the organizer of communication and ethics in medicine workshops for medical students and law under the name Areopag Ethical. And what amazes us all and with what I had the pleasure of working with him when I helped him, like many who followed him, was working with difficult young people and convicted persons. In July, October, and in January, he reminded us of how important a good word, empathy, is needed. He was upset, protested, and even embarrassed when he said, "Why do some people say to the patient that he's already out of the question? Why are they taking away his hope? You can't do that. He was like a merciful Samaritan showing us the way. Today, when he is gone - next Friday we will bury him in Sopot - let him become a symbol for us of such a true guardian angel, which is material, such a merciful Samaritan, who is and who is very much needed for all of us. Maybe that's why it's a memory today, which is why this contemporary hero deserves a very long, lasting memory. Thank you, marshal, for the opportunity to touch this great figure. [[Voices from the hall: Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine unto him.]] Give it to him, O Lord, and let the eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u5	Mr Józef Lassota is asking for the floor. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Section 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I would like to ask the Marshal for a moment of interruption. The duration of this interruption and the way it is used, I leave it to the Marshal, because I expect you to carry out the request about which you are about to make. On March 26, the third anniversary of the death of Krzysztof Kozłowski passed. He was an advisor to the Workers' Committee of the Steelworks in Nowa Huta and an expert on Solidarity. He participated in the round table negotiations. In the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki became Minister of Interior. He took the position of Chairman of the Committee for the Verification of Security Officers and later the First Head of the Office for State Protection. He was also a senator. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, forbade his subordinates - the media report - to celebrate the third anniversary of the death of the first non-communist Minister of Home Affairs, Krzysztof Kozłowski through the simple gesture of laying flowers under the bust of a man standing in the Ministry, who created the police and special services of free Poland after 1989. Therefore, present officials of the Ministry could not submit symbolic flowers to remind the first Polish non-communist Minister of Home Affairs. Mr Krzysztof Kozłowski received the Great Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. Mr. Marshal! You represent the Sejm, who has given a vote of confidence to the current government. I believe that it is your duty to take care of the quality of Polish politics. You should not be silent when the Minister of Home Affairs of the government of 38 million countries is acting so wickedly towards one of the great creators of this country, your predecessor, and a dead person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that you will find so much decency and courage to explain, at least ask a young man who is temporarily Minister of Home Affairs, to say that this is a bad way of implementing historical policy, that it is simply wicked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u7	With respect for the sacred memory of the dead, I have not interrupted you, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are acting irregularly. Please address these speeches directly to me either through the club presidents at the Convention meeting or by making statements. At the moment, the formal proposals may only concern the agenda. [[Voice from the hall: But your club has done so many times.]] Mr Zbigniew Ajchler also came forward. Let me remind you, it's just the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! In a moment we will proceed on a very important, very important subject: to suspend the sale of land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and to amend certain laws. I would like to ask you, Mr. Marshal, for your sole decision, to extend your time to present the positions of individual clubs and ask questions. Mr. Marshal, let me say at this point that this is not only my personal application, made to your hands, but many, I would say, thousands of people who are very keenly interested in this subject in the press, in the media, as well as in personal contacts live. Hence I allow myself, Mr. Marshal, to ask you to extend this time of presentation, so important - it is not buying a kilo or a bag of potatoes at the market or any other bill that... All the laws are important, but this one is extremely important. From here, I allow your marshal to ask for an extension of this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u9	There you go. These are, of course, regulatory changes. I understand that you are referring to a change in the way the discussion is conducted under this paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. Only, High Sejm, we just had a meeting of the Bureau, the Senior Convention and earlier here in the Chamber, I asked whether any of your fellow Members had comments or other proposals than five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. No one volunteered. On the other hand, it will depend on the Marshal how long he will propose time to ask questions: whether it will be 1-minute speeches or 2-minute speeches. [[That's what I'm asking you to do.]] I would ask you to turn to the marshal in charge of this case. [[Thank you very much.]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u10	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 11.15, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 11.30, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 11.30, - Infrastructure - hour 11.30, - Legal notice - hour. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 12.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13.30, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 13.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technology together with the Committee on Infrastructure - h.m. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 4:30 p.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 6:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 11, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Kresów, Kresowian and the Heritage of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic - hour. 17. The Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement, Catholic Action and the Association of Catholic Families is honoured to invite the family to the conference by force of Poland at an hour. 13 in the column room of the Polish Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u11	Thank you, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: The taking of an oath by a member of the Monetary Policy Council. The Sejm appointed Mr Jerzy Żyżyński as a member of the Monetary Policy Council. According to Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4th Act on the National Bank of Poland appointed by the Sejm member of the Monetary Policy Council before taking up his duties shall make an oath to the Sejm. I state that a member of the Monetary Policy Council appointed by the Sejm, Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, made an oath. I'm asking Mr. Jerzy Żyżyński to take an oath. Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u12	High Seym! As a member of the Monetary Policy Council, I solemnly swear that I will act with full impartiality, knowledge and experience in monetary policy, in accordance with the objectives of the National Bank of Poland's activities. So help me God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u13	Thank you. I state that Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, appointed by the Sejm as a member of the Monetary Policy Council, made an oath before the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws (prints No 293 and 363). I ask Mr Robert Telus to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure and honour to present the report of the committee as rapporteur, a report on the draft law which is very important and long awaited, especially by farmers, but not only - by all those who are at the heart of the good of Poland, the good of our nation, and all those who want to defend our Polish land and who know that the Polish land is our national good, which must be defended. At its 13th meeting, on 11 March, in accordance with the Rule. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure are addressed to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering this draft law on 17 March, brings and asks the High House to adopt the proposed draft law on the defence of the land. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a lot of debate in the committee - a discussion that also moved to the media, a discussion that causes a lot of confusion and misleads public opinion. Very often the opposition... In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you also observed this at the first reading in the Chamber, where the opposition, misleading the public opinion, spoke of the fact that the law interferes with the so-called. Paternity inheritance. It is clear that such information has aroused a lot of controversy, doubts, questions among farmers. And I would like to tell you that this is a manipulation and a lie. This law, by the way, has no right to interfere in matters of the Constitution, and the matter of succession, above all the inheritance of the so-called. A father-in-law, because that's what all this confusion was all about, is enshrined in the Constitution, and no law has the right to change it as a law, because it is by law a lower order document. Therefore, such information which the opposition Members have put into circulation is information, I think, doing a lot of bad, much bad for Poland. I am surprised that Members who sit in the Seym have high positions in their clubs even use such lying arguments only for political purposes. The second argument in the committee - as rapporteur I would like to say this to you, but also to the public - which were used by the Members of the opposition, is the issue of the Agency's initial purchase. I would also like to correct this information with a lie, because this law does not change this issue. The Agency's first purchase case has been in force since 2003, and we do not change that by law. That is why I would like to reassure the public, first of all farmers, that this information that is running in the public opinion and sending out this information to Members of the opposition is misleading and misleading information. This law has one most important purpose. This is the defence of Polish land. The goal for which Polish farmers had fought for many years - they went out on the streets, protested, protested on the streets, protested in front of the cabinet of the Council of Ministers. The former government, a former coalition for eight years, could not secure our national interest so important. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would not like to mislead the state and the public to an end. Of course, there was a bill made by the former coalition, but it was a bill made in the last month of operation of the coalition, on the knee, with many amendments, ladies and gentlemen, amendments to the amendments. [[There are no corrections now.]] I know, we know that it was a law that did not safeguard our interests, did not safeguard our national interests and did not fully secure the Polish land trade, especially when it comes to the purchase of Polish land by foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, one more thing - and this is also for the public and, above all, for farmers. The entries that are in this Act are largely valid in the countries of the European Union. Here to the Members of the opposition - so often you refer to the European Union... [[And we'll plead.]] ...but these records, and even the following, are valid in France, they are valid in Denmark, they are valid in Spain, they are valid in the Netherlands, dear country, and you are not referring to these countries at this time. At this point, you're saying it's the government of law and justice that's making some kind of bill that's making so much fuss. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again: the purpose of this law, the overriding purpose of this law, is to defend Polish land. [[Applause]] defending Polish land... [[In front of the Poles.]] ...before being bought by foreigners. There is no, ladies and gentlemen, today more important business in agriculture than to defend our Polish land. And who does not understand this, should not be in this House, should not be allowed to sit in this House because it does not work for the good of the national interest, but it does not know what lobby it is for. [[Applause]] We know, ladies and gentlemen, that over the last eight years they have been sold in Poland... This is information... [[Voice from the Chamber: This is what we have in the report.]] I say, ladies and gentlemen, about what was on the committee... [[As a representative of the PiS, not a committee.]] I would like to present to you the atmosphere that existed in the committee, because I think that this should be done by Members and, above all, by the public. For the last 8 years they have been sold in Poland for the so-called. poles about 200,000. Ladies and gentlemen, this land is currently waiting only for May 1st, so that it can be handed over to foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...this bill, although not everyone likes it, secures this business. Those who bought this land for so-called. poles, they won't be able to pass it on to foreigners. [[Applause]] And that's the whole business, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that this noise, which is on the left side of the room, from PSL to the Civic Platform, is exactly what the whole business is, that you don't care about the interests of a Polish farmer, you just care about someone's interests. [[Talks are also punishable, Mr. President.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the committee as rapporteur, and as in the committee it was voted out, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this law for the sake of the Polish interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This was not the rapporteur's speech.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It is my great honor to present the position of the Law and Justice regarding this indeed one of the most important laws that this Sejm is proceding. I am also aware of the responsibility that rests on all of us, because the issue concerns the law that Polish farmers have been waiting for for years, which is also very important for the future of our society, because it concerns the protection of Polish agricultural land, which is the basis for the food security of the nation. The agricultural land around the world, in Poland too, is a good which shrinks at an alarming rate, which is why its protection is particularly important for us. I understand that such an important thing, such an important matter, such an important act as the one that concerns the territory of Poland, arouses great emotions. However, what happened in the last few weeks in the Polish countryside, the amount of lies passed on to farmers at various kinds of meetings exceeded, in my opinion, all the limits allowed in politics. [[Applause]] They were scared of nationalization, because, as in the 1950s, they would probably move the three parties to take the peasant's last cow, rip the borders, grab the rest of the grain out of the attic. Such a message was built for Polish farmers: that it will not be possible to pass the land on to children that they will not... [[That's true.]] ...respectful inalienable property rights, private property, which is also protected by the constitution. Such a message was tried to build for the Polish village. The bill, which we are still making amendments to - we have worked intensively for many, many hours in the agricultural committee, and I will also provide additional explanations in the form of amendments... [[Which means there's a bill written on your knee.]] ...which in an even clearer, clear way will explain our intentions - it is a law that Polish farmers expect. We are introducing solutions that protect Polish agricultural land, similarly as is the case in many Western European countries. In the justification, long and detailed, with which probably many debaters have not been acquainted, we also give examples of more radical, more restrictive forms of land protection in other countries of the European Union than what we propose in Poland. This information may be needed primarily for those for whom the legislation of the countries of the old Union is some mythical model to follow, to create Polish regulations. The Act protects Polish land from uncontrolled buyout by foreigners. Provides the right of farmers to run farms which are the basis of the agricultural system in Poland, the basis enshrined in the Constitution. It protects state land against speculation that has taken place in recent years. It ensures the undisputed right of landowners to freely dispose of it within the framework of family relations, i.e. inheritances, inheritances, donations. Nor does it exclude the possibility of transferring land for non-agricultural purposes - communication infrastructure, as construction sites, industrial sites. It is us, ladies and gentlemen, who give Polish local governments a unique power, the right to decide in which directions each municipality is to develop. We want to counter the urban chaos, this uncontrollable mess that local authorities have raised very strongly, which is often connected with construction in the countryside. This law meets a number of practical, utilitarian objectives, not only directly related to agricultural land. Therefore, I am convinced that it will serve Polish agriculture well, it will serve Polish economy well, it will be an important step, protecting for many years, maybe generations, the Polish land, which is our valuable national good, is good All of us. I would like to present to your marshal the additional solutions on which we will proceed in the Committee on Agriculture, which, as I have already mentioned, show even more logical, transparently the intentions of the applicants, the intentions of the Government of Law and Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] so that no one is surprised that no one has any doubts about how much good this bill is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u17	Thank you very much, sir. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will address Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We've heard here about a great bill. Let me just remind you, Mr. Reporter, that the bill you called, written on your knee and put a lot of amendments into it, maybe it wasn't the greatest, but a little ash on your head, because at the moment you've already made 15 self-corrections and, as far as I know, it's still prepared about 10. So it's not like the bill is preparing and accepting. And here I am facing: that is what we are here in this House to correct the wrong records. It's just an explanation. We are, of course, talking about the report, which is what we have done in the course of the first reading, and what we have done in the course of the first reading. This is where the amendments were actually made. On the other hand, the fundamental question is: have these amendments changed the intention of this law? The intention and purpose of the bill is really to protect the Polish land. A legitimate goal, an ambitious goal, but can any measure be explained by an objective? I don't think there's any means to justify the purpose. The biggest charge: the unconstitutionality that Mr Telus was talking about, that it was not a constitution... The Constitution is indeed a higher law, but we are not talking about the fact that someone is violating the Constitution, but that this law gives the possibility of unconstitutional proceedings. We show you where it is unconstitutional in our opinion, and what is more, not only in our view, because it is also unconstitutional in the opinion of lawyers, ombudsman, people who deal with the law every day. So don't tell us that opinion, the opposition is lying. Is it true that if someone who takes care of a farmer gets an inheritance of a farm and does not become a close family, and this can happen, he will live with him long, but will not be a family, he will be subject to a normal procedure, as if it were not an inheritance? My question was not answered clearly by the Minister during the committee meeting. This is the first case. We still think this bill is wrong despite these amendments. You're trying to make things better, but this is a bad bill. This is a bad bill that absolutely limits private property, absolutely enters into our private things, into our private property. And each one of us, everyone who sits in this room, considers the goal to be right: to protect the Polish land, but not so far as it concerns the private land of Polish farmers. This law really protects the land from farmers. This law will not allow farms to grow. This law, which has the title of protection and which you are referring to, on the constitution, on the article. 23 of the family holding as the basis of the agricultural system does not serve the family holding. And that's very clear. Who, then, does it serve? It's very dangerous. That's what we've been paying attention to. Basic question: Who is the Agricultural Property Agency? Why do we give such huge power to the Agricultural Property Agency? [[The president.]] Why, with the amendments, instead of restricting the opposition's request, and not only because there are farmers' protests, these powers, you give it a statutory competence for absolute control? That is no longer what the Member has said, that the amendment we have tabled in the article. 8, by law, provides the possibility of controlling the agency. The official will enter the farm and see if the host really owns the farm. If you said the agency was already doing it, why put it in the bill? Or is it about the agency being even more competent? Or is it about the agency really being more competent to expropriate under the pretense of control, security, and many others? And it's not a question of scaring the farmers. That's the point. show records, show records that are in this bill. This is a matter by the opposition, and not only by farmers unsupported, and this is a thing, Mr President, through which the protests you have spoken of, farmers who have been waiting for the Land Protection Act... Now they're standing there protesting that this bill... [[But it's not you, it's not the same.]] ...to protect the earth from them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These protests are, these protests are spontaneous and these protests... [[It's PSL today.]] All you have to do is show where there are non-constitutional entries in this act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u19	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u20	On behalf of the Civic Platform, we make amendments and request that the project be rejected. [[Applause]] [[Oh, you've overreacted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel, Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to comment on the comments made by Mrs Niedziela. I would like to say first of all, Madam President, that our solutions do not differ from those that are applied in other countries of the European Union. This law is also based on these solutions. In France, for example, permission to acquire agricultural property is required. When selling agricultural property SAFER, i.e. an institution similar to our Agricultural Property Agency, except that there are several SaFER institutions there, it has the option to exercise the statutory right of first purchase. It is an obligation of 15 years, to carry out the acquired holding personally and to carry out the work on that holding without the right to lease or make use of it. The disposal of the holding outside the transfer of the successor or spouse shall be subject to the approval of SAFER. Germany. A permit is required for the acquisition of agricultural property by an authority equivalent to our district authority. Spain. Preferences in the acquisition of agricultural property have priority holdings, including: family holdings. Denmark. The acquisition of agricultural property by a natural person is possible where: firstly, the purchaser is a citizen of Denmark or an EU or EFTA State and under the rules in force there has the right to acquire property situated in Denmark, the buyer or his spouse or children at the time of acquisition in Denmark are not the owners or co-owners of agricultural property located abroad, the purchaser settled permanently in Denmark within 6 months of the acquisition of the property, the buyer will manage the acquired property himself. The acquisition of real estate by the company is possible when the shares giving the right to a majority of votes and at least 10% of the capital remain the property of the person fulfilling the conditions for acquiring the real estate. Hungary. For the acquisition of real estate, it is necessary to obtain the consent granted by the State authority which holds the right of veto. Earth can be acquired by a person who is currently growing it. [[Maybe.]] The acquiring person must declare that he will personally cultivate the land and will not pass it on to another person. So, Commissioner, do not really mislead the public. Your propaganda for a month or two led together with the CODE and other organizations will really see the daylight that it was a fraud. It is not true that farmers do not support this law. I've had some meetings. There were at least 300, 400 farmers in the Ostróda, 400 in the Ostróda. Everyone, after explaining it, accepted this bill. I even got a round of applause, which rarely happens. On the other hand... [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Minister, you weren't telling the whole truth.]] [[For the first time in my life, I guess.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of this law was presented by the rapporteur. I would also like to add that the governing parties in the previous term: Polish People's Party and Civic Platform, on 5 August adopted a law which in no way defended the Polish land. This bill introduced only part of the solution... [[And the PiS how did he vote?]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] [[Mr. President Duda even signed it.]] Mr Szczecin, we introduced some of the solutions that were justified when it came to the law on the disposal of agricultural property of the Treasury, because some of the solutions were introduced there, which were put forward as postulates during the protests in Szczecin. That is why we supported this law, knowing that we would win the elections and change another law about shaping the agricultural system. [[Applause]] [[But you're hypocritical.]] It's not like we surprised the voters after the election. Let me remind you that this law, i.e. The main principles were reported by Law and Justice in print no. 1629 in the last term, in 2013. At that time, we introduced the main provision in this draft law that an individual farmer could be the buyer of agricultural real estate. In the election campaign we talked about this and after the election campaign we propose this solution. The State did not want to seal the sale of real estate to foreigners by failing to notice certain provisions of the Civil Code or other forms of transfer of property, such as decisions of courts or decisions of bodies. You didn't protect other forms of state at all. We take into account all the cases that we have been able to determine, because the law is that it will probably still have to come to an assessment of this law after some time and some things will continue to be sealed. You didn't do that. Don't pretend. This is what Mr Telus was talking about. After 1 May, you wanted those poles that purchased real estate to have the right to transfer property property to speculators or foreign persons on the basis of the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system. As far as inheritance is concerned, from the very beginning, all those who criticized this law did not understand what inheritance means, that inheritance is divided into statutory and wills. Legal inheritance is excluded from this law for the benefit of loved ones... [[Testaments.]] Instead, the inheritance of the will is for a foreign person, also for a foreigner, and in this way property could be transferred. We introduce the right of pre-emption by the agency, which may concern real estate, whose property can be transferred to undesirable persons in a speculative manner. As regards the Ombudsman, please explain why, given the protests that have been addressed to the Ombudsman since 5 August, the Ombudsman has not dealt with this law. He wrote that he would not do this, although the press stated, in the Rzeczpospolita, and we have on this subject materials that the law which was adopted in August is incompatible with the constitution. The Ombudsman, on the other hand, made an effort in December, when the first draft law was addressed to inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations, and the Ombudsman jumped out over the head that he saw the unconstitutionality of this law. This is hypocrisy, all these constitutional bodies that operate in Poland, do not guard the constitution, do not guard the law, just try to keep an eye on the interest of one option that believes that it should rule in Poland, and it does not have to be. The law does not enter into private property, it applies solutions concerning the protection of Polish property, Polishness and Polish land, and that is why our farmers support this law. As far as the Agricultural Property Agency is concerned, once again, there are similar institutions in almost all countries. In the law that we intend to develop, about shaping the agricultural system, which will concern not only property ownership, property transfer, but also organizational forms, other matters concerning family farms, we will consider the possibility of transferring competences to district old towns or local governments of voivodships, as well as this kind of SAFER, because in France each branch similar to our province has SAFER, but this is ahead of us. We want to develop a comprehensive law on the shaping of the agricultural system within two years, establish new rules on the land of the State Treasury. And please take note of that, Madam Member. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Now on behalf of... [[In corrigendum mode.]] In the procedure of correcting Mrs Niedziela. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I can't not correct it. The Minister is accusing us that we didn't understand the purpose. I understand the targets. There is no one in the opposition who does not understand the purpose, does not understand that these solutions are needed. All those European solutions you cited... I'm glad you brought them up, but you're the only one who's quoting them at random. What's next, in these solutions for other countries, has nothing to do with us, and the devil is in the details. [[Voice from the hall: Like what?]] My question is whether everywhere in the European Union or in most of the countries that you are referring to is a provision concerning an individual farmer, which must be in the CRUs. Is there a record? That's my basic question. Why is a farmer only one who pays KRUS? I don't get it anymore. Why don't you want to back out? Why was 50 ha the upper limit of your ability to withdraw? Please withdraw this part. I know, I'm glad you're listening, but don't tell me we're saying the wrong thing, because that's what the record was. Minister, that's the record. Second thing. Why does a man who gets a will have to be a foreigner? Because it follows from this - I do not know if the state understood it as I did - that anyone who is given in the will is a foreigner and is not allowed to get it. This is some kind of wrong basis for any reasoning. These are essential things. Here's another thing. I have a record, Minister. I'm really sticking to the record very closely. Here's all this stuff. You didn't answer me why in the Art Act. 8 You give the agency the statutory power to enter the area and carry out checks. It aroused the surprise of the lawyers. It was immediately stated that this absolutely goes beyond any right to privacy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u25	Thank you, Member. Now, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I apologise, Mr Bartosz Józwiak will speak at the Poselski Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the government's bill to suspend the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and to amend certain laws. We have said from the beginning that we agree with the necessity to protect Polish land from speculative purchases or possible excessive redemption by foreign entities. We also understand the related problems, also the problems of farmers, problems concerning purchasing power of the Polish farmer in relation to farmers from Western Europe. But, in fact, this project presented in its present form is very difficult for us to accept, not to say that it is not acceptable at all, because it is a project that does not actually solve the most important problems that Polish agriculture is experiencing today, but it generates a whole lot of new problems that will affect the Polish population in general. It's a little something like real socialism, where you first create the unknown. other problems, and then they are heroically overcome, but they are usually defeated completely inefficiently. This project has one major flaw. He's trying to fire a baby with a bath, which is under the so-called. With the protection of the Polish land, he rebuts most of the Polish society with due rights to purchase the land in Poland. In fact, it protects Polish agricultural land from ourselves, from honest taxpayers paying taxes in the country, here living. And that's his, actually, very fundamental element. It's a little bit like trying to shoot an ant from a cannon. I don't think we should go that way. As a result, he will form a new privileged group. In fact, he will also organize such a bizarre, quasi-feudal reality in Poland. In terms of ownership or property rights, he's pulling us back a lot of years. In fact, somewhere there begins to smash this spirit of unfulfilled ideas from the times of the Polish People's Republic, which to me is very, very scary. It will be very difficult to improve this project, while there are a number of amendments tabled, including the Kukiz15, which can at least remake it in some way so that it is at least less harmful or eliminates all the most dangerous consequences. Therefore, acting in the sense of responsibility for the quality of the law, despite the earlier rejection of our amendments that we tabled in committee, we will make them again. One was reported, accepted, one that, when taken out of context, is curial, so I think it might even have been pure malice. Well, anyway, we're repeating these amendments again. We'll put them on your marshal's hands in a moment. The first of these proposed amendments excludes strict conditions for the sale of agricultural property in urban areas where family farms do not operate effectively. Here we have a whole range of reasons for this. The second amendment will in fact relate to the amendment of this provision, according to which, according to the Act, agricultural property can only be acquired by an individual farmer and therefore a person who has been resident for at least 5 years in the municipality in which the property is situated and is linked to the cultivation of a business activity. We think this is the harmful record that needs to be turned off. We propose a slightly different solution which will protect Polish land from speculative buy-out and buy-out by foreign entities. Namely, we want to rely on that the buyer of the land in Poland could actually be a natural person who has lived in Poland for at least 5 years at a permanent address with the intention of permanent residence. This is a provision taken from EU rules and I think that it would completely secure this element and at the same time remove this issue of excluding part of the Polish society from the possibility of purchasing land. The third amendment refers to eliminating negative practices relating to the acquisition of agricultural property by financial institutions in the course of enforcement and insolvency proceedings. I think this is another element that we want to secure these things with. Using the time I have left, I would like to ask one more question, mainly to the Minister. Is there any way to resolve this, to meet with those people who have been harmed by the decrees of PKWN? For a long time they have been sent back by the Ministry from Annas to Caiaphas, and in fact this law will definitely close the possibility of recovering or even the right to buy the property that was stolen from them once. And I'd like to ask you again because I didn't make it at the band meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That the Minister didn't come to. So maybe I can say it here. In conclusion, Kukiz15 expects you to bend over the amendments one more time. We call for this project to be rebuilt because otherwise it will be very difficult to accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u27	Thank you, sir. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska will now speak on behalf of the Members' Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 27 amendments - none accepted. We have submitted some as minority proposals, I suppose most of them will be lost, but we hope for a little more reflection. We understand that the purpose of the law is to protect Polish agricultural land from foreigners, speculators, excessive accumulation of it, excessive concentration. But we still think, unfortunately, that this cannot go too far, that the goal does not justify the means, and this law is going too far. The proposed solutions violate constitutional law. And this is not, Minister, an opinion only and only part of the opposition sitting in this room. Art. 23 of the Constitution does say that the country's agricultural system is based on a family farm, but the basis does not have to mean the only farm operator in the countryside. Not to mention that later in this article it is said that the article. 21 and 22 constitutions should not stand against these solutions. Meanwhile, art. 21 says: The Republic of Poland protects property rights, protects inheritance rights. And these rights, regardless of what the Minister says on this speaker, are severely restricted by this law. Art. 22 of the Constitution also states that the restriction of freedom of economic activity is permissible only because of the important public interest. And although the protection of Polish land is an important public interest, we believe that this law goes far beyond this public interest. As I said, despite various amendments, the law limits the right to inherit, but also the right to donate and settle. This last right will continue to be limited in three years to individual farmers only, and inheritance to loved ones, while we know that in the countryside, neighbors who later inherit often help in farming. Today there will be no such possibility, or at least the agency will be able to limit this possibility. So control control, we understand all this, but the process is crucial here, as well as the final beneficiary and certain limitations that are introduced by this law. The PiS often refers to the fact that in many countries of the European Union, as we have also heard from this speaker today, there are also restrictions on agricultural land trading, but, as I always say, the devil is in the details. According to the European Union - we argued about this at first reading, but there is a definition of a farmer in the European Union, and it cannot be that in some provisions this definition of farmer is different, in others - the farmer is a natural but also a legal person, a group of natural or legal persons, regardless of the legal status of such a group and its members under national law. Meanwhile, in Poland companies and cooperatives that have been free to operate in the countryside, not only will they not be able to further develop their activities, but even worse, the agency will continue, according to this draft law, to have the right of pre-emption in relation to their shares and the purchase of land in any ownership change - even if this change concerns the previously introduced paternity company, also in the event of a change in the participation from father to son, even if the agricultural activity is not the primary source of the activity of the company. In fact, you have forgotten, I have already mentioned this during the committee's deliberations, to add another article which would prohibit Polish women from marrying foreigners, Germans, French, Danes, Dutch, because this is also a way to circumvent the law. Then I suggest you add one more article. The law for 5 years, as has already been mentioned many times, halts the rotation of the land, introducing too much discretion and placing too many rights in one hand - in the hands of the Minister. A similar authority is given to the president of the agency. Such a vision of manual control of the rotation of Polish land in Poland is completely unacceptable to us, especially since it does not avoid agricultural lands located within the administrative borders of cities, as we have asked, it does not omit the fourth and fifth classes of land, which could also be slightly freed and introduced less regulation. This approach, in our opinion, will simply lead to investment paralysis in Poland. Today, many people are wondering what is the second bottom of this bill. I don't know, maybe control of investments also in cities, because also areas not covered by the spatial planning plan [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's going to be about that. In view of the above, the Modern Club is still unable to support this law in connection with the amendments that we have tabled and which have been rejected. But yet, on behalf of the club, I'm still putting on the hands of your marshal a few amendments to be considered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u29	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u30	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will partially repeat the arguments I made at first reading about the shortcomings of this law, but I will start with consensus. I think that everyone in this room, regardless of those accusations that fall, that the previous law was intended to buy the land, that those who have a different opinion are traitors, we all have one goal: we want to protect the Polish land from getting into the wrong hands so that it does not get into the hands of the non-Polish hosts. And this is a common idea, which we are very often dealing with in this Chamber, and which we should obviously be dealing with in this case. But we differ in other fundamental matters which are included in this law, defining it as a legal basis or even simply stating that it is a law in many places harmful to Polish agriculture and the Polish countryside. I will start with one fundamental issue and this will be the subject of an amendment which the Polish People's Party is proposing. We have a clear provision in the Constitution, which says that the basis of the agricultural system in Poland is a family farm, an individual farm run by the Polish family. You're calling for it, too. Only where in this law are we talking about making it easier for this farm to acquire land? Because in almost all points where restrictions are introduced, it is said that it will be the individual farmer who will have the harder to buy this land, and from the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury at all. And here's the difference in the model, because you think the model right is the model of state control. In other laws, you talk about controlling other state institutions of public life, but also about business. Here you are clearly talking about this, referring to this 1.5 million ha of land, which is now a state land, that the basis should be the state economy on this ground, and we believe otherwise. We believe that the basis is that this land is owned by Polish farmers, Poles and Polish farmers. This land should be placed in Polish hands in the form of ownership, not only in the form of leases. [[Applause]] Because, as you say, often using the phrase "arean," I will ask what we will call those who are not honest tenants today, and many of them are called farmers from Marszałkowska, who today use thousands of hectares of agricultural land in Poland, as not landowners. For at least five years, you guarantee that the country will continue to operate in this formula, that it will continue to benefit from area subsidies, which are also charged to the national budget, and that you do not allow farmers who often have a plot next to their farm to have 1 ha, 2, 3, 5 ha of land in order to have a larger feed base for dairy cows on their farm to buy this land for at least 5 years. And what would happen if they enlarged their farms so that they would be competitive, so that they would win competition in Poland and outside, in the European Union and in the world. This is what you create transformations in Polish agriculture and this is a fundamental issue in this law, with which we absolutely disagree. And the others... Here's what I'm gonna say. Maybe I shouldn't be a member of the opposition, but I will say this: I am pleased that you, under the cover of the clarification changes, are eliminating those errors that you have made both in the original project, which has not yet entered the Sejm, and in this project that has entered the Sejm. These amendments of yours are also fundamental changes as regards the right of inheritance and the right of Polish farmers to acquire land. Let's not be afraid to say it. I know it's awkward for you guys, so we're saying it for you. These amendments are going in the right direction and go on like this or support our amendments, which we will report at second reading as opposition clubs. Today I am undoubtedly satisfied that all that we have said in this Chamber and outside of this Chamber about this project in its original form, which is on the side of the Ministry of Agriculture, and about this project that is still functioning today, I am satisfied that by acting in various ways here in Parliament... I am talking about the Polish People's Party, which spoke loudly about this, here I am talking about other clubs that spoke loudly about it, as well as about farmers who came and came to our parliamentary offices, who set themselves up under notarial law firms, so that sometimes someone would not take their property at the time of their transfer to the children. They trampled on changes in this bill. And lucky for you. It's also a clue that you need to be pushed because you're not infallible in your understanding. [[Applause]] I sincerely hope that many of these amendments that we are proposing will be taken into account, because we cannot harm Polish farmers by this law, we cannot harm this law. By the way, you should think about it. I'm talking about the 200,000. ha supposedly bought by foreigners today, but whether it's 200,000 or 5,000, as official information says, you've induced phobia, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which you needed for your political needs. Today, under this phobia, you've prepared a flawed bill and you're going through with this mistake. Because it's a phobia. There is no international document, no European Commission has made an official statement on this issue, and it has not reached a source that would say 200,000. ha...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u31	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u32	...in Poland is in the hands of foreign capital. You invented this for your particular political interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I'm reporting an amendment on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u33	Thank you very much. You're still the Minister. You have the floor of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not speak for too long, because in committees we are really discussing, but I will refer to these constant lies repeated by the Polish People's Party. It is a document of the European Economic and Social Committee which talks about these irregularities in purchasing land in Europe. [[An opinion.]] It is an opinion, it is a document. The opinion is also a document, Madame. [[Voice from the room: And the Venice Commission is not an opinion?]] On the other hand, Mr PSL Members, the fact that you were threatening farmers and for a time there was chaos in Poland... Let me remind you that in the 1930s, a broadcast was recorded in the United States about a threat, some kind of invasion, and the entire American nation was scared then. I don't know if you remember that story. Everyone thought it was gonna happen. You wanted to do it in the Polish countryside. Unfortunately, you failed because our explanations and our information were accepted with understanding, and this law, I dare say, is supported by Polish farmers, because it actually defends Polish land. Gentlemen, tap your chest. This act of yours on 5 August on shaping the agricultural system does not contain any record that protects against the flow of Polish land into foreign hands. Analyze it, ask the lawyers. There is no record in the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system that would prevent the poles that were created under your governments from operating. The land was to be passed on to farmers, and it was passed on to speculators. The president of the agency had to be canceled because there were so many complaints. He's been driving around in person in the last few days to sign notarial acts so that only the poles can acquire land. When it comes to cementing transformations in agriculture, your policy has led to the fact that these transformations do not take place as they should be. The decisions you have made over the last eight years have led us to have crises on the agricultural markets that will be difficult to resolve. We make changes in the law, these changes are not strategic, but unlike you, to PSL, we talk to people, listen to, accept amendments. These amendments, which were tabled today, are the result of recent meetings, are the result of recent comments that have been made to us. As for the case of the presence of a modern representative, it is a steak that is not true. Art. 23 - one in the village. As every individual farmer can set up a company, she can contribute to the cooperative, she can set up a civil company. This is not prohibited, but the acquisition itself may be for the benefit of an individual farmer, because that is the principle we have adopted. The right to inherit is not limited. Today, the agency also has the right of first purchase in the matter of will inheritance. Nothing here, honourable Member, is wrong. As regards the presentation of the Kukiz Club representative, this is a number of comments which I find difficult to accept. There are no land purchase bans for most of the population, it is order, ladies and gentlemen, of the state's spatial policy. It can't be like it is now that the landscape is destroyed, that we're going through our beautiful towns... [[I'm gonna let Bialowieza go, for example, and they're gonna cut her out.]] ...and where we had a view, there are developed buildings or windmills that spoil this landscape. I think we will take your amendments fairly seriously. If they're right, we don't say we won't accept them. Thank you at this stage for your attention. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal application.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u35	Thank you very much. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Formal application, if possible.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to announce a break by your marshal, and during this break I would ask the Minister to reflect on the words he has just said, because unfortunately there is very much wrong in them. First of all, it is possible to learn about the lie from you, how you lied about the Polish forests and their privatisation. [[Applause]] Really 2.5 million signatures collected under a lie. We won't forget that. That's another line. You change this bill, and very well, you only change it under the influence of protest, under the pressure of the protesters who came under the Sejm, under the pressure of the protests of those who come to your offices who come to our offices, under the pressure of the opposition here in Parliament. That's why this bill has been amended. You're clarifying the succession because it wasn't clear and questionable, and very good, but don't tell me everything was great when you sent this bill to consult, because it wasn't. [[What kind of consultation?]] Yeah, that's what consulting is for, that's exactly what it is. Only you from the beginning, even at first reading, said that this bill did not require any changes. Now you're saying ours was hopeless. Then why did you vote for her? I mean, again, do you still have to insult the President? He wouldn't have signed a hopeless bill. I don't think you believe that he's gonna sign a terrible bill, really. [[I do.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this case is extremely serious. This is a matter of food security of Poland, but also of our history, culture and tradition, our national identity. Poles cannot be misled all the time. And it's a good thing the Minister's meeting now and consulting this bill. We've been consulting her for the last three months. The result of these consultations is the amendments we are proposing. Some of them you accept, and very well, because this pressure of society, the pressure that has been put on you, also the opposition in Parliament has brought effect. I hope he brings an even bigger one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u37	Thank you very much. It wasn't a formal motion, and even if it was, there's no way to vote it because there's no quorum. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: How about in the voting block?]] Member of the Commission, on the basis of the corrigendum. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u38	Minister, since the law, as you suggest here, does not change anything, I wonder why so many new provisions concerning the right of inheritance, property rights, companies and cooperatives. But I would also like to point out that, in principle, it is probably more frequent to fund capital in various rural operators, from which the purchase, purchase of new land is financed, but the company's own profits than the contribution made by individual farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u39	Thank you very much. Now Minister Zbigniew Babalski on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One very brief statement must come from this pulpit. Minister, at first reading, I presented this bill. Do not mislead Members sitting in the Chamber or, if so, those who are listening to today's debate. We can go back to the transcript. What did I end with? [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz: Open Value.]] Openness, conversation. I encouraged further discussion. And today you said that even at first reading you said that this law does not require any changes. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Of course it is very good.]] Just don't mislead the audience of this debate today, that's all I'm asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Now the rapporteur for the committee, Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u42	Mr. Marshal, I'll take the opposite, because... [[The Member wants to talk about how the vote was.]] I, on the contrary, have tabled the proposals that you have just tabled. [[That's good. That's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u43	The motion was informal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u44	I believe, Mr. Marshal, that no interruption should be announced, because this pack of lies, which continues to proclaim the PSL, is causing great confusion among the public. First of all, it is about - one time in turn - the privatisation of forests. Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for Law and Justice, if it weren't for the five votes that prevailed in that night vote you introduced, the forests would be privatized today. [[What are you saying?]] It was you who led to the privatisation of the forests. [[Applause]] And, ladies and gentlemen, history will not forget this. [[A lie, a lie.]] Only Law and Justice saved forests, that they are state forests. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's one thing. Second situation. I thought we were gonna have a substantive discussion today, because what PSL is accusing us of is that we're changing the bill, you're out of your mind, because you've never followed such rules. We're listening. We listen to people, we listen to farmers, we listen to the opposition. [[Applause]] And if there are any good suggestions... [[You say you're listening.]] ...if there are good proposals, we introduce these proposals. [[Just yours.]] It's out of your mind because you guys have had completely different rules over the last eight years. You were just imposing. [[What are you guys doing?]] One more thing. Gentlemen from the Polish People's Party should have the least say in this matter. Why? Because Mr Ardanowski reminded us of the 1950s, in 1952, when the Polish farmer was taken away the land. And very often Polish People's Party [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's referring to history. Your fathers, your grandparents, but you've often been part of the ZSL...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u46	...to the party that took the land from Polish farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Are you crazy?]] [[Voice from the hall: Did they not belong to you?]] [[Voice from the room: You even have PZPR.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u47	Thank you very much. The questions were written down by 30... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] No, because this isn't a corrigendum, you're having a discussion. There was time for discussion elsewhere. Now's your chance to ask a question. 32 Members joined the questions. [[Messenger and Members.]] I'm closing the list. There may yet be a member of the House who now wanted to correct himself. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Polish People's Party is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! And I have a question about the referendum on state forests. This question has been repeated at every session of the Sejm for the last few years. [[That they're safe, that they're safe.]] Where are the millions of signatures? When will there be a referendum on the privatisation of state forests? [[The woods are safe.]] What has changed, and what has happened that the referendum is unnecessary? [[Voice from the hall: The referendum was supposed to defend against you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to this today's laudation about the land, and I also recall this blessing for Polish farmers, which was mentioned at the first reading. It was even more pathetic and lofty, what a blessing it would be under this law. [[What blessing?]] And I ask you, what made you suddenly have to withdraw from many records when it was so good at first reading - did the farmers come to the Sejm and protest? Then you didn't listen to anyone in the O.R. very good, [[♪ The bell ♪]] was not subject to any changes. That's why I have a question on behalf of the Podkarpackie farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u49	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u50	What good - Mr. Marshal, farmers ask me - will Polish farmers have under this law? Because the truth is, it doesn't protect the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir, for extending your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u52	...isn't against foreigners, it's against farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u53	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler from the Civic Platform is now speaking. [[Happy birthday.]] [[Thank you very much.]] [[Happy birthday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Why was this draft law written in such a way that does not reflect the actual existing state of landowners at the present time, except for the one individual farmer for whom the draft law on the acquisition of real estate is exclusive - as is known, development - does not take into account other economic operators or the diversity of production cooperatives which in Europe are captured or the diversity of companies? This is a violation of five articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. I'll quote the article. 32: No one can be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. The country's agricultural system is based on a family farm. You can't say that this base is 100%. It could be most, it might be more important, but it's not exclusive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question about inheritance. I listen carefully to what the Minister says in various interviews. There are families who don't have kids, they have land...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u56	...and have the care of strangers. They can't imagine that their will cannot be done. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński from the Civic Platform is now asking a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Constructively: If you were concerned about the claimed concern for farmers' peace, would you be kind to mention enumeratively the cases of land sales - I stress the cases of land sales - which the Agricultural Property Agency will not be interested in? Second line. The acquisition of agricultural property by a person who wants to set up an agricultural holding attaches this person to the property for 10 years. Only after proving the necessity of a random relationship can the court resolve this. Is this not a drastic exaggeration in view of the turbulent surroundings of agriculture and farming? That's another line. Why should having 50 ha be a border defining an individual farmer as insured in KRUS? What I'm saying is that on a farm with a plant profile of 100 ha, it takes a thousand hours to work, which is a part-time job. Minister, this record you've proposed in the light of modern times is anachronistic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last thing. How long will PiS maintain the custom of listing draft agricultural laws by Mr Ardanowski, as was the case with the draft law on hunting law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Artur Dunin of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I will return to the rapporteur's statement. Mr President, you were a representative of Law and Justice, not a rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and I am very sorry for that, because that is how I treated you - in fact, as the person who represents the committee and not just one group. I am very sorry, sir. This is about your speech, which was not a committee report, but a political statement by a man from Law and Justice. But to the point: Minister, I understand you're making further changes to this great bill that didn't require any changes. I am very glad that you leaned on all the comments that we - also as a Civic Platform Club - made. I very much regret that you did not accept these amendments in the committee that was sitting. I think you're making similar adjustments right now. Unfortunately, Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski did not focus on these amendments, but spoke about the fact that in your time they would not pass threes like in communist times. Now they're not gonna go through threes, now they're gonna go through threes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One president himself will decide whether to take the land or not. I have a question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u61	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u62	A very important question, if Mr. Marshal would allow, is one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u63	You're out of time, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u64	If a son or daughter are not farmers today, for parents have said: listen, son, listen, daughter, go, learn, and as a lawyer, a doctor...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u66	...will he be able to, or will this child be able to get... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u67	Now the question is asked by Mrs Bernadet Krynick of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Where's the applause?]] [[Applause]] [[You had to make demands.]] [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to quote the words of Hippolite Cegielski, who was a Polish philologist, industrialist, social activist, journalist and politician and lived in 1813 and 1868. His words: The material basis of the nation is land, industry and trade. Whoever gives the land, industry, and commerce to foreigners, he sells his nationality, he betrays his people. [[Applause]] The next quote, please: The Polish State practically does not exist - a quote from the conversation between Sienkiewicz and Belka. [[Yours, please, yours.]] The government of the Civic Platform and PSL sold Polish industry to foreigners for half-free, destroyed Polish industry, e.g. A great, modern... [[But Polish farmers have their land. They're patriots.]] ...the sugar factory in the Graves, the only sulphur mine in Tarnobrzeg. You ruined it. Now the railroad is... [[The mine is not sold.]] ...yeah - you wanted to sell the land to Polish foreigners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ma'am, during the war, the land was captured by tanks, and now you want to give it back for the euro. [[But the mine isn't sold.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] What did PO and PSL do to protect Poland and Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u69	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u70	What did you do? Thank you. [[Voice from the hall: But who sells?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u71	Thank you very much, Member. [[We've made a bill.]] The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[You're wrong.]] Members, I ask you to exercise some restraint. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But the Member makes faces instead of smiling at us.]] But you're interfering with the proceedings. I'm asking you to calm down. [[The Member does not believe us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u72	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have some questions. Will it be possible to sell or buy agricultural land in suburban areas, e.g. V, VI class, which is attractive for housing - land not for farmers? If not, will this not slow down the development of these areas? Question two: Will it be possible to divide the agricultural parcel and give it to the non-farmer's own child? Question three: Is this a limitation of ownership? This is what some politicians and the media describe. Question four: In the event of a tender for the sale of an agricultural parcel of more than 1 ha carried out at the end of April, will it be possible to conclude a contract, to draw up a notarial act already under the new law, in May? And last question: Under the new law, will it be possible for a local government unit to dispose of the land on a swap basis? Will the municipality be able to switch land of equivalent value with an entity which in principle [[♪ The bell ♪]] won't he be entitled to buy land? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to ask the Minister not to submit to opposition requests, because all lies, all requests are made only to settle their interests after 30 April - the ones that were planned. I have another question, Minister, because there are questions from the voters. If there is no zoning plan and the conditions for housing are issued, I would like the Minister to confirm that nothing changes in this area after 30 April. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u75	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the opposition. This is how you attack, take care of the Polish farmer, and listen: Polish farmers in Warmia and Mazury will now not be able to grow sugar beet, because first you destroyed the sugar factory in Ketrzyn, and then you sold the German sugar owner in Glinojeck, and now he will give up beet growing in Warmia and Mazur. And what did you do? You cared so much about this Polish farmer. [[That was for Lepper.]] Minister, I have a question for you. Do farmers, young farmers also have to have a 5-year traineeship to acquire land? Because the farmers asked me that question, and to be sure, answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u77	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Wilk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question on behalf of young farmers, especially from the municipalities Wikrowo and Płoskinia, that is Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship, Elbląskie and Brewery districts. The point is that young farmers took over these farms from their parents a few years ago. They often live in a different place than where the arable land is. They pay taxes, they want to develop their farms, while the requirements of this bill include a five-year report in the municipality where the farm is located. They live in another municipality, but pay taxes and grow their land after their parents in the municipality where the agricultural land is located. And now as if because they didn't live there, they didn't have a report, they wouldn't be able to apply for an extension of these farms, and that's the intention of the bill, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want these young farmers to have a chance. Can this amendment still be made in the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Now you are asking Leszek Galemba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister is right about abuses in his last term of office. In view of this turbulent subject, I would like to present to you the examples of the abuses that have occurred over the last years and to argue why the law proposed by law and justice is so important. I'll quote part of the article from the local newspaper, the Kolski Review. Head of the largest farm in the district of Kolskiego, from the Polish People's Party: I have heard about farmers' temptations regarding the purchase of land, but I do not know whether to afford farmers for agency land. And an example of what the Minister was talking about, the day before the law on the prohibition of the sale of land announced by the Minister of Agriculture entered into force, is sold 500 ha of entrepreneurs from Warsaw. Perhaps land located [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the eternal book by the heir they will also go to entrepreneurs from Warsaw. The second example...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u82	The investment fund sells the entrepreneur's Barciana farm, 6 thousand. ha. These are the examples that the Minister was talking about. [[Where's the 200,000.?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u84	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u85	The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u86	Thank you very much. Minister! You spoke today, for example, in French. Let me remind you that the French farmer has never heard of collectiveisation, never heard of nationalisation, never had to defend his property against the Communists. Effectively defend. Tonight, I'm sorry to say, she has to protect her from you. You're gonna go down in history as the minister who tried to stop the land. It's really epochal. During the discussion of the Committee on Agriculture, there were arguments: who saw the farm 300 ha that it was a compromise of some kind. There were voices saying that it should be 100 ha in the end. I'm afraid that's what you said to one of the newspapers today. I'll show you a farmer like that. He's in Szczecin, his name is Edward Kosmal, and he was the leader of your protests. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] According to his statement, he owns 216 hectares of land. If Mr. Cosmal has children and he has children who also have land, and they have, and if they have more than 300 hectares together, will he be able to give them the land according to this project? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! This is a key problem for many farmers in western Poland. My question. Will the farmers who have farms of similar size be able to pass on the land to their loved ones if the loved ones, children, cousins, siblings, long-term relatives will already be earthly owners and in total their area will be greater than 300 hectares?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u88	Why doesn't this law distinguish between this, doesn't it take into account this regional specificity, and you, a farmer from Podlasie, don't understand what a farm of more than 300 hectares means? [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u89	The question is now asked by Mrs Magdalena Kochan from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u90	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! The outskirts of the cities, areas after former farms or areas after former gardening, class IVa land, not defunct to this day, without a zoning plan in this area. The owner of a few acres of land I'm talking about is a non-host, a man who's already sold some of these parcels for construction. They're attractive, they're divided by geodesically. They're willing to buy those parcels. Will he be able to sell this land for construction purposes after the law has entered into force? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u91	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is a truism to say that the land must be defended. We all know that, the first legal acts of defending Polish land date back almost 100 years, from 1920. The question arises as to whether this law is going in this direction to really protect the Polish land. I do not deal with issues related to restricting the purchase of land owned by the State Treasury, because it is obvious that such a decision can always be taken by the State. The problem is if the law interferes with the trading of private property. And the question arises, saying that under no circumstances does this violate the Constitution's provisions. I think that if you were to refer to the article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which explicitly commands the protection of property and inheritance, these doubts could arise. For we are talking about limiting the circle of buyers of private land, because this is the only one I want to talk about. Secondly, please note that we are introducing here a rule on the possibility of repurchase - where it is possible to sell, after the decision of the real estate agency which makes the buy-back - that we are implementing the so-called. the right of the first-buy. This law does not provide for a right [[♪ The bell ♪]] the original purchase, only the right of redemption, because, please note, the property price itself can be determined in accordance with the principles set out in this Act, in the Real Estate Management Act. Please also note the fact that within...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u93	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u94	...10 years we'll be able to judge whether the farm is running or not. There's one more thing. Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u96	...I'm glad you think this bill will reduce the risk... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Don't interrupt, Marshal.]] [[The voice from the hall: Professor...]] [[Professor Professor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u97	Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club Law and... Civic Platform, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u98	I haven't passed yet, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, for the good morning, I must commend you for driving, trying to consult, but I ask the question: Why do you drive so little? The longer you drive, the more comments you would have heard about the changes in this bill, and all this would have to be changed, and indeed this bill coming out would have a very good ending, the final one. I have a question for you because, of course, we can argue politically here, and what does that mean? Our offices, your offices are being visited by specific people with a specific question and a specific problem. I wanted to ask you. A farmer comes to me, he and his wife manage on several hectares, in the old age, and he tells me this: Mr., my wife and I have these several hectares, we are trying to manage in some way, to ensure our existence, but we are no longer able to. The marriage of non-farmers helps us. We want this one for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ground is rewritten so that they can continue to support and support us. Can we do that in the light of this bill? Will they receive this land, or will this land be taken over by the agricultural agency of the Treasury? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u99	Thank you very much, sir. Now you are asking Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if Law and Justice would bend over some of the amendments that the opposition had tabled. We have tabled many amendments. I wanted to bring up one thing, namely we wanted to restore the record about the primacy of the purchase of land by former owners and heirs. I mean a group of landowners who were treated very badly by history, first by the Nazis, then by the Communists. They didn't get the reprivatization bill, so it would be good to restore the law that was in force in the previous laws, where they could exercise the right of priority. I have limited this right of priority to 50 ha by proposing this amendment so as not to raise suspicion that it is some sort of speculation. The point is, however, that very often the landowners regained their manor houses and, in order to maintain them, it would be good for them, as it was historically, to have an area around them that they could use. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, Minister, a heartfelt request to lean on this amendment. It was placed in the hands of the marshal today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u101	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think all the questions have already been asked, but I have such a fundamental question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 2nd Act states that the Minister responsible for Rural Development, at the request of the President of the Agency, may authorise the sale of real estate. So you're assuming that there's a complete ban on sales, but the minister can issue a permit to sell this land from the resources of the Treasury agency if important socio-economic considerations are taken into account. It reminds me of the provision of the law that you cited as something that could have harmed the forests, that is, the record where we gave the possibility in a law other than a ban on sales. And here's the exact same record, which means you can't sell the land, but the minister can recommend that you can. And my question is, if so, why does this record serve, and who does the Minister want to sell this land to? Because the record of socially important considerations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's an economic bypass. Question: "Who is behind the purchase of land with the permission of the Minister?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u103	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My two questions will concern agricultural parcels which are not in the spatial planning of investment or construction sites. I would like to ask: Is a farmer who at this point has agricultural land divided into land which is 1000 and 1500 m with housing conditions, and these parcels are not yet sold, after 1 May he will be able to sell these parcels? And a similar question: Will a farmer who has an agricultural plot of up to 1 ha at this point in time grown agriculturalally be able to divide the plot into construction parcels after 1 May and sell it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u105	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: But he will come again.]] Excuse me, sir. There's no envoy. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions I've already asked on the committee, but I haven't received any answers, so I'm asking them again. These are specific cases of Polish farmers, farmers working in the field. The farmer has 300 hectares of his own and 200 hectares of leases from the agency. I understand that this lease agreement will be terminated. Question: When? Or immediately after the entry into force of the Act? And then what about the subsidies and possible investment that the farmer made on this 200 ha? The father and son are 300 ha each, they're farmers. What about the right to inherit in this case? Will the son, having his 300 ha, be able to take over the farm after his father? I don't think so. Children have an agricultural education, but do not live in the countryside and do not run a farm. Can they inherit from their father and then freely possess this land? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The land is owned by people without agricultural education and who do not live in the municipality where the farm is located. What will happen to their land after the law comes into force? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. [[Well, there was no applause.]] [[Applause]] Now you are asking the question of Marek Sawicki, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all agree that agricultural land is a special good and should be protected from buying by both foreigners and speculators. The Minister is graciously saying that the Act of 5 August does not safeguard the interests of this protection and that it opens the gate for purchase by the so-called. Donors from the poles. It's worth a look at the article. 9 and Article 9 10 of this law, there exactly the agency buyback is described in such cases. Not much, the agency had 1/3 of its revenue secured for the execution of this buy-back. However, I would like to ask: is it not worth considering in the framework of this amendment the possibility of exempting from the buy-back agency parcels below 5 ha in private trade and releasing sales so-called. Popeefzetowskie plots also up to 5 ha? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because, in most cases, these are individual parcels, separate parcels that are used by individual farmers out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This discussion of the law raises a fundamental question: Is this law supposed to protect the agricultural land from speculation, from being taken over by foreigners, or does the Minister have a second bottom, to protect the interests of the great tenants in whose hands there are powerful years of foundation? Because in some regions of Poland, powerful years of funding are in the hands of tenants. Such a synonym for this is the person of Minister Balazs. Aren't you protecting the interests of these tenants? Five-year record, for today, maybe five more years, ten years, 20 years, no sale of land - isn't that protecting the interests of these tenants? Because today when you talk to the farmers, it's them on the one hand, of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They show concern for the earth, but on the other hand they want to acquire the land from the Treasury. You're making this impossible for them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u111	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Jan Duda of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! In the ongoing public debate, the arguments are raised that, following the adoption of a proceded draft law, the price of land will be significantly reduced, that farmers will start to bankrupt, that banks will start demanding higher collateral for loans that have been taken up for purchase of land, that this situation in general threatens one major economic crash (the yesterday's article from the Legal Newspaper). My question is, aren't these arguments raised primarily by the banks just proof that agricultural land is primarily used for speculation and capital but not for agricultural production? On the other hand, as for the protests, we protested four months for this bill to arise, [[Applause]] And no one listened to us, and I've been at the protest for four hours lately, and I've been listening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] those arguments that were there - 4 hours compared to 4 months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u113	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. You don't have an MP? Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.16. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[15.]] [[Voice from the room: One has arrived.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the purchase of land by the Agricultural Property Agency. As we know, the agency has five years to buy back the land if there's been a violation of the law on the sale of this land. I asked three times from this pulpit whether there would be a will for such a redemption. Because, as we well know, various abuses were committed - the land sold on the so-called. poles, land sold for some small money in relation to the market price, because it sold for $3,000. Or $10,000. per hectare when the market price was several times higher. Tell me, will it be the will of the last five years where there has just been a violation of the law... Will it be the agency's will to buy back that kind of land? And what will the future security look like? Because imagine that today we're buying back the land, and, I don't know, in 15 years' time, the government will be selling it again. So we're gonna spend tonight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The money to buy it, and somebody's gonna be selling it again in a minute. How will this be secured? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u115	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The size of farms in our country varies greatly. In the north and west we have large, large-area farms. South and eastern Poland are small farms, often 3-, 5-hectares. Now farmers living in Lublin, in Świętokrzyskie, in Małopolska, in Mazowieckie would like to remain farmers on these small farms, but to manage in areas ten times their current size. They don't have the ability to buy land in their local districts, in their neighborhood, they'd like to go north, for example. or to the west, where there is a possibility of buying land, where this land is much more, and buy there. Unfortunately, the bill forbids them to do so. Should it not be possible, even to give preference, so that these people can go and buy land there? Why don't we support, [[♪ The bell ♪]] do we not increase the dynamics, the development of our agriculture by these farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u117	The question is asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! I've got a request to keep going, to keep going. Minister, who is this bill supposed to serve? Is it true that foreigners were sold less than 1% Land? Another question. Why do farmers protest, in Podkarpacie too? I think it's a bad bill. Problems that are to be solved: 14.5 million hectares of agricultural land of private owners, 1.5 million in agency resources, 1 million tenants. It's a problem to solve and in these cases These are the most important things. Another issue is the change in the structure of farms. In Podkarpacie, the average size of the farm is 3.5 ha. This law in this form prevents a change in the structure of the holding. Another issue is the Act on Real Estate Management of the State Treasury, land belonging to the Agency's resources. There's a way to pass it on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the benefit of JST or the Industrial Development Agency. Such a possibility is only for local government units in case of transfer for investment purposes, such as flood-related investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u119	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u120	Do you foresee the possibility of selling to independent special economic zones and will it be possible to buy recreational parcels?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u121	... Parliamentary Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u122	And one more question. 650...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u123	... The Civic Platform. You're welcome. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u124	Mr. Marshal, this is the Krakow market for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u125	But you've already exceeded 1.5 minutes. [[Mr. Marshal, you're from Cracow and you're acting like one?]] Because we have to stick to the discipline of time. Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u126	Mr. Marshal, one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u127	For the time being, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u128	Mr. Marshal, five seconds, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u129	Madame, you are occupying the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u130	Because you ruled me out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u131	Because you've crossed time twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u132	Because if I have so many problems... Five seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u133	Five seconds. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u134	A question for the Minister. In 2016, 650 million were planned for the sales budget. If you block, where will the money be for the 2017 budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u135	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Act equips the President of the Agricultural Property Agency with very high decision-making powers regarding the marketing of agricultural land, among others. concerning the determination of the mode of sale of the land, the choice of the buyer, the right of pre-emption, the unilateral fixing of the price, the interference with the right of inheritance, the consent to the establishment of the mortgage and a number of others. At the same time, there are no provisions in the law allowing transparency in decision-making, public scrutiny of these activities. This is very close to abuse, corruption and pathology. Isn't the Minister afraid of irregularities in the operation of the Agricultural Property Agency? Why did the Minister resign from introducing security and control mechanisms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u137	Thank you very much. [[I saved time for a friend.]] Now the question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the huge powers that the Act gives the Agricultural Property Agency. So I ask the applicants: In your opinion, does not the authority given to the agency by this law threaten to pathize that the earth will only be for its own? In other words, do you not see the enormous corruption threat in this bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u139	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Farmers clearly say that they were expecting a law of this kind that would protect the land from being redeemed by foreigners, but at the same time they were asking about some of the things that have been asked about here in part. After the entry into force of the law, will the farmer be able to extract small pieces from his farm to sell the construction plot to his neighbour? If so, how large can such a building or recreational plot be? And the second element, which was repeated in previous questions, and I'd like to do it a little differently... The President of the Agricultural Property Agency will issue decisions on the sale of land for non-agricultural purposes. Will there be any additional provisions that will be detailed, in which cases the President will be able to make a positive decision and in which case a negative one? Will there be a regulation that will show which way the President can go, how he can act in these matters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u141	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition here, from this speaker today claims that this bill is harmful to Polish farmers. So logically, the situation, when Polish agricultural land can be bought out by foreigners, can be an investment in capital, is beneficial for Polish farmers, right? [[For the opposition.]] That's what the opposition thinks. In other words, the Polish farmer should be at the owner's place of the German, the Danish - in your opinion it is beneficial for the Polish farmer. Really hit your head, think a little bit, go to the country and talk to farmers, real Polish farmers, whether they want to be owners of agricultural land, their work garage, or they want to be locals with strangers. If you really want an answer, go to the first better Polish village and you will get an answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u143	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u144	Dear Marshal, Minister! I'll start by quoting the article. Article 2b (2) (b) 1 Act: The Purchaser of agricultural real estate is obliged to maintain the holding in which the acquired agricultural property entered into, for a period of at least 10 years from the date on which he acquired the property and, in the case of a natural person, to carry out the holding in person. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 of that Article provides that the provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply. 1 and 2 shall not be used, inter alia. to the case referred to in Article. Article 2a (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Points 2 and 3 and therefore to be disposed of to the benefit of a loved one. In view of these provisions of the Act, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that PSL politicians are lying and that citizens' Platform politicians do not know - because Mr Dunin asked here just now - that there are no restrictions on the disposal of agricultural property for the benefit of loved ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u145	The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u146	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, My question concerns the amendment of the ninth article. 6 Act on the shaping of the agricultural system concerning the identification of an individual farmer. Minister, wouldn't the identification of an individual farmer limit the right of farmers who have property in a neighbouring municipality near the border? Will they have the same rights? Because in this term it is that it concerns only a farmer in that municipality. By the way, I wanted to explain to the doubters about the privatisation of the State Forests. I would like to remind you that the worst year for the State Forests was 2010, when the government of the Civic Platform with the great participation of the Polish People's Party wanted to privatise the State Forests by circular means, by introducing in the financial plan the State Forests to public finances, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which would inevitably lead to privatisation of State Forests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Jurgel will now answer the questions of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What I have written down, I will answer, if anyone is unhappy, we can answer the request in writing to make it clear. Mr Kasprzak's questions are that we have withdrawn from the rules. We did not withdraw from any regulations, we detailed the rules as we discussed the law. Let me remind you that we had practically a month to prepare the project. [[You've had your designs prepared, Minister.]] The coalition that lost power on October 25 was 8 years old, and as I remember the work on the bill, every week the amendments changed, every week the rules changed, and finally on August 5, a product came out, as it is, which was challenged by a number of institutions - we have proof of that, letters - as a legal basis. Mr Aichler then said that inheritance was at risk. This is not true, it is not threatened, because, as I said, the legal and testament inheritance is subject to the right to purchase, and therefore the will for the guardian can also be drawn up. As far as cooperatives and companies are concerned, here we do not violate this system, all organisational forms that function will be able to function. Each individual farmer will be able to contribute either shares or shares to individual companies. One Member asked about the KRUS case. Here we are introducing an amendment, we are deleting this clause, although I personally believe that it could be stopped. This 50 ha concerns less than 5% farmers. If we're talking about defocusing the earth or not concentrating, then there could be a record. If most people feel that way, and in Parliament we shall make such an amendment, perhaps it will change the wording, it will change its meaning. Will the son and daughter who are not farmers inherit? Of course, they are loved ones, there are no restrictions here. Mr Chmielowiec asked a number of specific questions and, in answer to these questions in general, I must say that they should be answered positively, i.e. there is no objection in the forms that you have asked. There are certain requirements that need to be met, and this will be possible. Besides, as in the 2003 Act, where it is stated that after a year an evaluation of the functioning of the Act was to be carried out, I believe that within six months we should examine any observations made to the Act and make an amendment if all reasonable comments which, as we know, may subsequently arise with such a rapid legislative process, are not taken into account. As far as Mr Bartosik is concerned, we are also introducing an amendment that the final decisions that exist for agricultural areas will be sanctioned after the entry into force of the law. If the High House accepts such an amendment, in transitional provisions we sanction these areas as investment, for which there is a final decision on the conditions of construction and development. As far as young farmers are concerned, there is no need for a 5-year traineeship for up to 40 years. Mr Nitras, on the other hand, said that I was a minister who would keep the land. Not me, Minister. The Sejm decides, farmers want it, Poles want it. I'm sure the speculators don't want that. As far as transmission is concerned, this 300 ha standard does not apply, it may be exceeded. [[For your cousins?]] Please? [[And if the farmer gets 600, then what?]] Well, it's off-limits so you don't break the rule you want to make sure you can rewrite property for the benefit of your loved ones, for the benefit of your children. That's what we put in the record. [[Voice from the room: See, Dorota?]] [[I know, but what's it gonna be like for a farmer who's gonna have 600 ha?]] [[Voice from the room: It can pass on to the child.]] As far as interference in private property is concerned, we do not hide that the introduction of rules for the protection of Polish land certainly limits certain freedoms, but even in the principles of the European Union's rules on the freedom of movement of capital are provisions which state that in cases justified - and this is the case - restrictions can be applied. Mr. Gadowski, to the offices... The farmer and his wife have a few acres. I wish they could grow this land as long as possible, and I don't know... [[Joy in the Chamber]] It helps marriage. Marriage, of course, will be possible to rewrite, if the marriage works on the farm together, will help, will acquire agricultural rights, because there is a 5-year period of internship. [[Thank you on behalf of Mr Gadowski.]] [[Voice from the room: and his patents.]] So that here you can rewrite without any trouble, if they see to it. As for the former owners, it was abolished by the coalition that gave up the government, and now demands that it be brought back. The government didn't talk about that. This is possibly the responsibility of Parliament. We just didn't analyze it. As for the special case, she asked about such a Mrs Sunday. There are cases where, for social reasons, property can be transferred so as to eliminate the impossibility of transferring this property. Parliament is from the government's evaluation. From the judge's evaluation... If these actions are unjustified and this is done with an open court, the government can always be criticised and possibly even cancelled if it does not comply with certain rules. Agricultural parcels that are not under construction conditions... If we have, as I said, construction conditions, final decisions, these plots, property can be transferred. As far as Mrs Rutkowska's question is concerned, the situation that the farmer has 300 hectares and leases 200, nothing is happening, he will still be able to rent this land on the same terms as everyone else. As for Mr Sawicki's question, these five ha, the government has made such a decision that... I mean, I'm sorry, the committee has made an amendment that land with a surface of up to 2 ha can be disposed of. If the Sejm decides otherwise, we'll take that into account. Is the bill supposed to protect against speculation? Of course, the purpose of this law is among others. To protect by speculation. This is Mr. Kukiz15 talking about redemption. We are talking here rather about the right to buy and then the right to acquire. In certain cases there is a right of first purchase, it is most often used in purchase-sales contracts, while the right of acquisition - in other forms of transfer of ownership, for example in the inheritance of the will. Mr. Sachaiko was worried about whether you could buy land in other parts of the country. Yes, an individual farmer will be able to buy land in any part of Poland. [[And with permission?]] Mrs. Skowronska sees farmers protesting. I'm walking around Poland somehow, and I can't see them. [[You can't see from the limo windows.]] [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I can't see. [[They're in Warsaw.]] Change in the structure of farms. It is this law that allows this structure to change, but we are not talking about it today. However, I would like to say that we are achieving normality in this country, because land development plans will be the basis for land development. I told you earlier that when it comes to the landscape, all these decisions are made when making a plan. It is the town councillors who decide what should be built in a given village, so that this town is attractive for tourists who want to admire the landscapes, because unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer of these landscapes in Poland. Mrs Skowrońska also asks, she is worried about the income of the Agricultural Property Agency, but, Mrs Skowrońska, as if we were selling, as you did in a chaotic way, 2 billion a year, it would just be 10 years from now, there would be no revenue at all. And so for the next 50 years, we're gonna have lease income. I would like to say that in many countries, in most European countries, lease is a basic form of management: in France - 85% the land, in other countries, is 30%. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It doesn't matter whether it's state or not, but it's lease, sir. This is the scale of the lease, which is one of the important forms of management. There are no provisions allowing public scrutiny of actions. This is where we introduce an article on monitoring the implementation of commitments. Some Members questioned this power, but we believe that these agreements, if they are to be implemented, must be controlled. Isn't the power given to ANR in danger of pathology? If the PiS rules, there won't be any pathology. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I doubt if the previous coalition would come back. [[Applause]] [[We'll wait six months, some of them are coming out.]] Will it be possible to divide into construction plots? As I said, in those cases where there is a final decision on the conditions of construction, it will be sanctioned, while we return to normal planning. Spatial development plans should be prepared. Moreover, the Ministry of Infrastructure has started to amend or change the rules of spatial planning. I'll remind you that there used to be another rule, it was better. They were so-called. general spatial planning plans for municipalities. These were local plans, which constituted local law in which the land was intended. Then it changed into a study of spatial planning conditions, and from that began chaos in Poland, because the decision on construction and development conditions is unfortunately made not on the basis of substantive planning decisions, but on the basis of often unclear motives. [[2003]] Mr Buda. As regards the acquisition of real estate for the benefit of loved ones, there are no restrictions here. Mr Gosievski says that there is no problem, it can be purchased. An individual farmer can acquire real estate in many municipalities. I would still like to refer to Mr Maliszewski's statement and inform you that according to the last version of the Act, the Agricultural Property Agency will be able to sell land with an area of up to 2 hectares. Such cases, which relate to land with an area of up to 2 ha, we have in Poland about 142 thousand. according to the agency's information, so that they will be parcels which will serve to improve the development. Thank you for this discussion. There'll be work on the committee, we'll bend over to the amendments. I would like this law to serve Poland above all, but also Polish farmers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. [[There was a name.]] Mr President, the Minister answered questions by exchanging questions. [[Me, please.]] If everyone wanted to straighten out the questions they asked before, then... [[We've already extended it by over an hour.]] [[I understand your request is an appeal to withdraw.]] Yes. And the Member? [[I just asked for a formal question.]] A formal conclusion, please, but there's no way we can do it right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Minister, based on the answer to my question, I don't think you understand me. I'd like to do it again...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u151	But you're not making a formal application, you're just trying to straighten out the answer. [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u152	Formal conclusion. Minister, I would like you to carry out your statement from the exposé that the delays will be treated dignifiedly... [[Late? Is the bill late?]] ...the way they're treated in other countries. And I believe that, but the records prevent us from developing and operating. I am pleased to hear you say that our opposition amendments will be taken into account in the committee. My point is that if there is a new hand now, you have power, you will be a better law than the one that was, we want this better law to constitute and enable members of the cooperative to acquire land that is within the cooperative. These cooperatives are changing, as we want them to be, into capital cooperatives, they are not cooperatives 50 years ago, and as of today this law prohibits us even from having land at our disposal 40 years old, forbids us to buy out without intervention by the agency. We have to make a preliminary notarial act first, and then we have to... It's about clear, clear regulations, better than they've been so far, which I believe, Minister. I repeat once again: I think that we will be a better law together with the committee than we have ever been, because that is the idea of every parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u153	Mr President, you have abused trust because it was not a formal proposal. [[Thank you very much, Marshal, and I'm sorry.]] The Member shall be corrected. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u154	Minister! You misunderstood my question and my intentions. The key to my speech was the lack of records in the law that differentiate voivodships, regions, parts of Poland depending on the types of agricultural holdings. What else is a large farm with you in Podlasie, and what else is it with me in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. On the example of one farmer who is close to you, I have proved that 200.300 ha is not a big farm, this is a typical farm. Not much, they should be bigger to be able to compete with, for example. with German and Danish. [[That's right.]] My question was this: Will you take into account the diversity... [[Regionalization.]] ...regionalization and this record? I see this record and this exclusion, but if you create a law, I, a resident of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, am afraid that if you have written in the bill that 300 ha is a family farm, and the farmer will pass it to his son and he will already have 400 ha, it will not be a family farm, because you have written it in this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This record today sounds like this, and tomorrow someone will interpret it differently. Let me remind you that when it was collective, it was also said that the farmer could take the land from the cooperative at any time. That's what I'm afraid of. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u155	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund (prints No 190 and 325). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, to report to the High House on the Government's draft amendment to the Public Roads Act and the Highway Motorways Act and the National Road Fund. This project is included in Sejm No. 190. I would like to point out here at the outset that the purpose of this legislative solution is to implement the provisions of European Commission Decision 2009/750/EC of 6 October 2009 on the definition of a European electronic toll service and its technical elements enabling the electronic toll service to function properly, namely the European Electronic Toll Service. This service is commonly called EETS. Unfortunately, this deadline for implementation was already over in 2012. Consequently, the European Commission has initiated proceedings concerning the reasons for not implementing the Commission's decision. The project was therefore examined as an urgent project. It contains only such regulations as are linked to the implementation of the European Commission's decision on vehicles with a maximum permissible weight of 3.5 t. What are the basic assumptions of the EETS service that are included in this draft law? Firstly, it is one contract which the user concludes with one service provider in such a way as to enable it to travel on all road networks within the European Community. Secondly, we have one principle which is that the EETS user receives a single settlement from the supplier for any fees charged to him throughout the Community of the European Union during a given period. Thirdly, we also have one rule in this draft law that there is a single interoperable on-board device that allows tolls to be charged when travelling on all road networks within the European Union. This is a device provided by the provider of this electronic toll service. Providers will be able to operate an EETS service if they comply with the requirements set out in that Act and are entered in the register of service providers in the Member State in which they are established. On the other hand, they will be able to charge users, i.e. drivers, for the provision of EETS, and possibly chargers, if they consider this justified. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the subject who will charge fees after the entry into force of these provisions will be, in the Polish context, the general director of national roads and motorways. On the other hand, if a decision is taken to collect fees electronically, such entities will also be able to be road special purpose companies - there is an appropriate law in this regard - or companies that have concluded a contract for the construction and operation of motorway sections operating exclusively in our country. The user of the electronic toll service will be able to stay by concluding a contract with the provider of such a service, which should be registered in the Republic of Poland or in another Member State of the Union. So that you will be able to choose for yourself whether you want to use the services provided by EETS providers and if so, which of them will then be able to enter into an appropriate contract. The same road user may also decide not to use EETS. In such a situation, he will be required to register as a user of the National Pay Collection System if he is travelling on the roads on which the relevant fees are levied in this respect. The responsibility of the Minister responsible for Transport will be to keep two registers: the first one to which EETS suppliers are included and the second one to be represented, among others. data on charging technology, EETS providers with contracts with charging entities operating in the Member State concerned, information on the area of operation of the service prepared by the charging entity. These registers shall be made public and shall be placed in the Public Information Bulletin on the side of the office serving the minister responsible for transport. The law also covers ways of resolving disputes. In this respect, the legislator proposes to set up a conciliation body in the event of disputes between toll collectors and electronic toll service providers. This will be the role of the committee appointed by the Minister of Transport at the request of the parties to the dispute. Such a committee will be able to issue opinions not only on contractual relations but also on the negotiations under way, and thus also in the event that the agreement between the charging entity and the EETS supplier has not yet been concluded. Initiation of a procedure before a committee is not a necessary condition for those entities to benefit from the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure. The Conciliation Body in the Act shall in particular be authorised to verify that the contractual terms imposed on different EETS suppliers by the charging entity are not discriminatory and that they reflect the costs and risks borne by the party. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the law does not regulate the creation of a new charging system. Secondly, the project which the Government has addressed to the High House does not introduce a new toll for travelling on the roads of our country. And thirdly, this bill does not change, and I would also like to stress clearly, the amount of the applicable toll for travelling on the roads in our country in relation to those entities which are authorised under the law to collect tolls, i.e. we have in this respect an authorisation for the general director of national roads and motorways or companies which have concluded an agreement with you for the construction and operation of motorways. Finally, I would like to add that, after the entry into force of these provisions of the Act, users will be able to benefit from it, who will be able to conclude a new type of agreement facilitating their electronic toll settlement. In accordance with European law, as quoted at the beginning of my speech by the relevant decision of the European Commission, this EETS service is to operate in all European Union countries. Poland therefore, by introducing this model into its own legal system, joins the EU countries where the EETS regulations have already been implemented, as some countries have already done so. This is, as I mentioned several times in my speech, a model introduced into Polish legislation to say, a target model addressed to road users. The reality we have in Poland, which is faced by the government in the context of this law, is a challenge, above all, to make up for these delays, which are associated with significant difficulties in moving across corridors, especially in highways of toll, but this is obviously not regulated matter. this bill. This is a practice that the new management of the Ministry of Transport will have to face in the next year. So much for me when it comes to basic information, which is related to this project, to the report. In addition to a few editorial amendments, the committee has so far not made any major systemic changes to the government's submission. I would therefore also like to stress that the report on this draft law has been adopted by all parliamentary clubs represented unanimously in the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Paul, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak in the debate. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the draft law amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund, Parliamentary Printing No 190. The need to amend this law is due to the need to adapt Polish law to the requirements laid down in Decision 2009/750/EC of the European Commission of 6 October 2009 on the definition of a European electronic toll service and its technical elements. The main objective of the proposed amendments is to create and implement procedures for the proper functioning of the above-mentioned service. Let us recall that electronic charging was regulated by the Law of 28 July 2005 amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. However, it lacks provisions defining the European electronic toll service, in short EETS, and technical solutions related to the provision of this service. Hence, there is a need to introduce provisions in the Polish legal order in this matter. The revision of the Public Road Act will enable cooperation in the provision of services at procedural and technical level through the use of devices and software for communication between electronic toll collection systems in Poland and with all systems used in other Member States of the European Union. This means that thanks to one device installed on the vehicle, it will be possible to pay fees not only in Poland but also in other countries of the European Union. System users will account for one entity. Thus, it will be facilitated and shortened to pay road tolls throughout the Union. The Act contains a number of provisions laying down the obligations of entities involved in the provision of EETS services to ensure that financial flows between system providers and charging entities are secured. The fee will be charged in the amount indicated in the applicable legislation. The manner in which it is determined, amended and collected, as well as the categories of vehicles to be charged, and the manner in which these charges are announced are laid down in the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. The EETS system connects road managers with road charging companies in European Union countries. If companies that have concluded a contract for the construction and operation of the motorway decide to introduce toll collection electronically, they will cooperate with the EETS provider on the same terms and conditions as other toll-payers or introducing this system on their roads. The Act requires charging entities both to offer equipment and to ensure that it is compatible with any technology specified in the Commission Directive. The European electronic toll service will be able to be provided by a supplier who has received an entry in the register kept by the Minister responsible for transport and then has concluded a contract for the provision of the service with the charger. According to Art. Article 16f (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. 6 of the amended law, the entity applying for entry in the register of suppliers should accompany the application with a statement that it is aware of the conditions under which the service activities set out in the act are carried out. Improving road safety will be expected to result in a positive start-up of the European electronic toll service. Due to the fact that the electronic toll is charged and collected without the need to stop, it also allows for better travel efficiency, lower fuel consumption and reduced exhaust emissions. In conclusion, this law aims to simplify the procedure for payment of tolls by an electronic toll system on the roads of the European Union, so that it should have a positive impact on the functioning of businesses and all citizens of the European Community. Law and Justice sees the need to introduce this system, as well as other legal acts relating to this issue, in order to facilitate travel for all drivers in Poland and other countries of the European Union. Members of the Parliamentary Club, therefore, will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u159	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present my position on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure, print No 325, on the government draft law amending the Public Roads Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund, seymous printing No 190. The aim of the amendment is to comply with the requirements for the alignment of national law with Union law as regards the uniform system of electronic road tolls within the European Community. Those rules are laid down in Commission Decision 2009/750/EC of 6 October 2009 based on Article. 4 Directive 2004/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 The EETS system, the European Electronic Toll Service, is complementary to the national electronic toll service. The use of appropriate devices and software ensures communication between electronic toll collection systems applied in Poland and with all systems used throughout the European Union. Currently, electronic toll collection systems are applied by Germany, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and of course Poland. The new supplementary rules govern the rights and obligations of EETS providers, toll collectors and EETS users, as well as the exchange of information between Member States, toll collectors, EETS suppliers, road users and the European Commission. In the current system in Poland, the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways collects all charges from users using the national public road network subject to toll collection in the electronic system, i.e. viaTOLL system. On the other hand, in EETS, the road user will account through the EETS provider for fees charged by toll-payers on an electronic system across the European Union. The EETS provider guarantees toll-payers in the electronic system to pay all fees for their customers, i.e. users of such toll roads. Thanks to the implementation of EETS, one interoperable on-board vehicle device provided by the EETS provider will allow charging when travelling on all European Union road networks where the toll is charged in the electronic system. It is important that this device can be used in vehicles running on roads managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, as it will interact with the viaTOLL system, as the rapporteur explained very thoroughly. This is very important. Therefore, there will be no need to change the technology used in Poland to collect electronic tolls. Mr. Marshal! The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the amendment of the Act, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u161	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the government's draft law on amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. As we have already heard here in a thorough discussion by the rapporteur, this is the implementation of the EU directives which we are now introducing into Polish law in order to bring them into line with EU requirements and to correct any shortcomings that have been made before. The main assumption of this project is the implementation of EU law on the implementation of EETS enabling road use in the Member States of the European Union for which tolls are charged using the electronic toll collection system. Its aim is to introduce a single payment system for roads across the European Union, which will be a huge facilitation, especially for transport and tourism companies. At the time of the changes, road tolls will be able to be paid by EETS and the service can be provided by a supplier established in the territory of the Republic of Poland entered in the register of EETS suppliers or by a supplier established in another country of the European Union entered in the register kept by the country in which it is established. It also requires the creation of safeguards by EETS providers that will enable an unconditional, immediate and full collection of the due fee together with interest in case of delay in the transfer of the amounts due: deposit, bank guarantee or secure guarantee. According to the new entries, the supplier's remuneration EETS is the amount corresponding to the savings generated by the charging entity or commissions specified in the contract. The Toll Charger may also provide an EETS service, but in such a case it must sign a contract with another Toll Charger. In general, the whole implementation will make it easier to actually collect fees, it will be friendly to all entrepreneurs and it can be said with a clear conscience, which is not often the case in the case of EU implementation, that it is a provision which also changes Polish legislation for good or in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u163	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to add to the words of my previous speaker that such solutions, electronic systems already operate in Germany, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary or Austria. So? What is EETS? Basic assumptions are one contract, one settlement, one on-board device. A device that will be compatible with other systems operating within the European Union, which will charge such road charges. Now it should be noted that this new solution will not directly interfere with the current national toll collection system viaTOLL, giving the possibility to operate many toll collection service providers. In this sense, it also shows the weakness of the current viaTOLL system, which forces us to use one device. We should have adopted this law, this solution a long time ago. We have a little more time now, although we have heard here that the European Union has already lit a yellow light here, so that we must adopt this implementation quite quickly. Many of my previous speakers explained, i.e. Minister Jerzy Polakzek explained very well the assumptions of the EETS solution. I think he gave us a very good presentation, very profoundly. I personally and my colleagues agree with its interpretation. Well, this must also be emphasised, because there are voices that this can bring new costs for drivers, for companies that operate in our country or operate in the European Union. This has been underlined that the fee to be charged will not increase. It is indicated exactly in the laws, in the detailed rules and it will not change. I, too, as a realist, have always stressed the bad solutions that come from Brussels, but I must stress here - for the first time, I think, from this speaker - that, in favour of this implementation, I myself will vote in favour of these solutions and we as Kukiz.15. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u165	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u166	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund, print No 190, after the report of the committee included in print No 325. The need for this amendment is due to the need to implement in national law the provisions of Commission Decision 2009/750/EC of 6 October 2009 on the definition of a European electronic toll service and its technical elements which have been issued pursuant to Article. 4 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the interoperability of electronic road toll systems in the Community. The adoption of the project will result - as my previous speakers have also widely said - in obtaining technical and procedural interoperability between electronic toll collection systems in Poland and with all the systems used in the territory of the other Member States of the European Union, of course those countries which will introduce electronic toll collection systems. In conclusion, through the adoption of the provisions contained in the draft, firstly, operators operating in countries which use electronic tolling systems in line with the requirements of the Directive will be able to conclude only one contract which will cover the entire road network in the territory of the Member States of the European Union, which will have the appropriate systems for this electronic toll collection. Unfortunately, except for our highways, but I'm gonna say two more words about this in a minute. Secondly, these entrepreneurs or, specifically, these vehicles will only be able to have one on-board charger instead of a whole range of devices for each national system separately. Third, entrepreneurs will be able to regulate road traffic charges in the European Union on the basis of only one invoice to be issued by this EETS provider. This is generally a very good solution that meets the expectations of the transport industry. This system will improve the toll collection process and will also reduce red tape, which is why the Modern Posel Club will support this project. However, at the same time, we need to talk about what is not in this project, also considering why it is such a form of the project and at such a rate it is being processed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, although we live in the 21st century, the toll collection system used on Polish motorways resembles the method of toll collection in customs chambers in the Middle Ages. This isn't a joke. It is not necessary to be a careful observer to see that from year to year vehicles are arriving, traffic is increasing significantly and this requires, of course, the adaptation of roads to these new requirements, but not only roads, road infrastructure, but also accompanying infrastructure, including toll collection systems. We talked about this a little bit during the committee session. However, even though we have these beautiful motorways, as well as other beautiful roads, although we implement this law into our legal system the pan-European electronic toll collection system, the government has not decided to end this kind of State infirmity and introduce an obligation to apply EETS compatible systems on all Polish motorways, not just on roads managed by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. Meanwhile, I think the drivers will agree with me that it would be a big deal for us: to be able to drive from south to north. Or from the west to the east, without stopping at those medieval chambers where tolls are levied on motorways. Therefore, I would also like to conclude with this expectation. The Modern Posel Club expects the government to take decisive action that will end with this medieval toll collection on our roads, which, as we all know, are from the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u167	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today I have the honour, representing the club of the Polish People's Party, to present a position and to say a few sentences in relation to the government draft law on amending the Public Roads Act, prints no. 190 and 325. It is good that in this bill we are clearly taking a very significant step forward. My previous speakers have already spoken here about this harmonisation of mechanisms, principles and ways of action that will help users of our roads and vehicles to fulfil this obligation. It is important that we align our systems and thus involve ourselves in a firm, unambiguous way in all these mechanisms, these good mechanisms, as we say here, which will be our economies, our communication infrastructure, our actions combined with actions carried out in the countries of the European Union. The rapporteur gave the mood and all the effects of the committee's work very profoundly, fairly, in substance in his speech. I would like to stress that the project envisages unambiguous harmonisation of the system, simplification of the whole preparation process, organisation and later functioning of the mechanism. Hence, the club of the Polish People's Party will vote in favour of this bill. I hope that in the future we will also be able to talk about these activities, so that on our Polish high-speed roads, motorways this system can be applied as a uniform and operational system on all roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u169	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that four parliamentarians have joined the task of questioning. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. If there are no more calls, I'm closing the list. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The harmonisation of the toll collection system is a great facilitation for transport companies. In Poland we are building more kilometres of motorways, but why are we using a toll gate system that slows down traffic and makes it more difficult, and also increases costs? In the framework of the codification, can we start work on getting the motorway gates removed, which will make it much easier for cars to move? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u171	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Machalek. [[Michael.]] Michael. Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the implementation of the Public Roads Act and the toll motorways Act and the National Road Fund I wanted to ask: Can the Minister declare that the capacity for drivers on motorways on which tolls are levied will be improved? In recent years, the National Road Fund has lost more than PLN 50 million from the so-called. raising the gates, which has been compensated by the transfer of funds from the general reserve. What is the government going to do, especially before the summer season, on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u173	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mr Tomasz Kostusia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u174	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Is the designer's intention to conduct an economic activity in the field of EETS service to be qualified as a regulated activity within the meaning of the Freedom of Business Act? Has the Ministry developed the form and mode of transmission by the Minister of Information on entities keeping relevant EETS registers in other than the Republic of Poland Member States of the European Union? Finally, whether the Ministry assumes that the Polish Motor Association as an organization having the right to sell vignettes for toll roads in Poland under international agreements, among others. in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria, Slovenia, Hungary or Switzerland, participated in this as an entity seeking EETS service provider status? It should be noted that the cooperation of European motor clubs in this area has a long tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u175	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In relation to my previous speaker, I wanted to ask: Is the Ministry prepared to prepare for the introduction of EETS? Are there already consultations with social stakeholders or with companies that want to operate in our country? I also wanted to ask: What will the end of cooperation with viaTOLL look like, how it will run, will they want to enter into this system or there could be some kind of a glitch? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all of you very warmly, both the subcommittee and the Committee on Infrastructure of the Sejm, for such a very efficient and thorough work on the draft law. And here special thanks to President Jerzy Polak, but also to all Members who worked for this law. According to the statements of both the club and the questions, the bill was recognised by the High House and all the clubs declared their support in the vote which will be on Friday. I am very pleased that this is a tool, I stress, a tool that can improve and help to operate mainly transport companies in Poland, but also throughout Europe, which is also... Maybe I'll just get to the real answer to the questions. There was a question about picking up the gates. Indeed, such cases have occurred. This is mostly about the section of the A1 motorway on which during the summer, in fact only in the summer, congestion and problems arise. We're in the middle of talking to the administrator right now, with the concessionaire of this section of the highway. He has proposed some solutions to prevent gate blocking. We are not quite satisfied with these solutions, but hopefully, as a result of the conversation and persuasion, as well as the proposed new solutions, we will be able to find such facilitations during the greatest amount of traffic. Here I will also say a few words about the toll collection system in Poland, the one that arouses, and very rightly, that arouses, one can say dissatisfaction, and that is a good word. It's a manual toll collection system, which means direct payment on the gate, just like the toll went down here. This is a toll, actually, it's just a toll that needs to be paid. Anyway, either in one form or another, it's a toll for using the road, but the way it's downloaded is actually very cumbersome. Ladies and gentlemen, it must also be said that this method of charging is based on concession contracts. On the other hand, when it comes to concession contracts, we are wondering, as a government, as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, we are reviewing these contracts, reading them and wondering what can be changed in them so that they correspond more to the reality and interests of both the Polish state and the interests of drivers, motorway users. Let me say so, here we have the situation that on this mentioned motorway A1 Gdańsk - Toruń, where the concessionaire is Gdańsk Transport Company SA, the concessionaire is rewarded in the so-called system. Accessibility charges. The remuneration includes a six-month availability fee and guaranteed revenue from the fees. At present, the concessionaire was entitled to PLN 2.8 billion for accessibility charges and PLN 0.5 billion for guaranteed revenue from charges. A total of PLN 3.3 billion. During this time, the revenue from the charges amounted to PLN 800 million. The difference between the remuneration for the concessionaire and the revenue from the charges is PLN 2.5 billion and constitutes a regular burden on the National Road Fund. According to the current financial model, the concession holder is to obtain during the duration of the contract, i.e. By 2039 - this is how these contracts were written - a sum total amount of EUR 5.4 billion, or about PLN 23 billion. The revenue from the charges is a risk to the public. Unfortunately, the contracts were signed like this. There are different contracts, with different concession holders, but unfortunately they are usually such that risks, commercial, financial, are borne by the public. This is certainly unacceptable, while changing these agreements is very difficult. These were agreements signed by previous governments and they are ongoing, they have power for today, but, I stress, we are considering a way of talking to concessionaires that could solve at least the biggest problems. The question is whether a particular company has been named: The Polish Motor Association can participate here as an EETS system operator. Ladies and gentlemen, here there is no distinction between one or another. There are only conditions to be met by the entity: formal conditions, legal conditions. It must be a legal entity, of course, and it must also meet a number of conditions that are related to its potential, its ability to operate across Europe or in many European countries, where electronic toll collection systems apply. They've got to do it. so there are companies that have significant potential that can simply function on this large European market and ensure good, effective, but also secure toll collection and then account with individual road owners in individual countries. So this is a serious venture, and there's nothing to hide that companies that don't work on this market can do it, and they just want to learn it. Especially since - even though this possibility has been for several years - in fact only two companies in the Federal Republic of Germany have come forward as potential EETS operators. This system is not yet functioning in Europe. The procedure is that after registering in a particular country, let's say, in this parent company you still need to register within 24 months in individual countries where there is a collection of electronic fees, and only then can you start acting as an operator. It is therefore complicated and - there is nothing to hide - it is not a market that will easily enter one or another company regardless of its previous involvement in such or other business ventures. As far as the system is concerned, the changes, and here the question has been asked about changing the system or if the operation of the viaTOLL system has ended, that is to say: please, the viaTOLL toll collection system is a system which is on the roads which are supervised by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. At the moment, Kapsch is the operator of this system. The agreement with Kapsch covers until November 2018, but given the different legal procedures, their duration and tendering procedures, the procedures for issuing tenders, the settlement of appeals, we really need to make a strategic decision this year regarding the system in which fees will be charged in Poland after November 2018. We don't rule out any decision today, no solution. We're exploring different options, and the technique in this area is incredibly moving forward. On the other hand, we need to make a decision within a few months to know what we want as a government, to propose one or another system that will operate on this basis, and then we will start procedures to identify a specific provider of this service. Whether it be one or another company, we are not deciding this absolutely today, it is an open matter and for such declarations just not the time yet, not the time. This is a decision that we have yet to make. I think that we will still be discussing this issue in the High House many times, because it is a very important thing that affects millions of drivers, and it is also intended to provide billions of contributions to the National Road Fund, i.e. this basic source of financing for the construction and modernisation of roads in Poland. Are there any other questions I've forgotten, High Izbo? If not, thank you again for working on this bill. I hope that we will be able to really put it into practice, because after the entry into force of this system, if this system starts to function, it will be a great facilitation, especially for those who travel a lot, especially for transport companies which play such an important role in the Polish economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u179	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Jerzy Polak. There's no envoy, is there? The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices (prints No 302 and 351). I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u180	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate bill on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, facilities and public utility facilities. The bill includes, among others, the following solutions: prohibition of giving names to buildings, buildings and public utility devices, including roads, streets, bridges and squares, which would commemorate persons, organizations, events or dates symbolising communism or other totalitarian system. In the event of such a name being given by the voivode's local government, after consulting the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National, it states that such a resolution has been annulled. Two amendments were tabled at the joint committee meeting on 16 March 2016 at first reading. The first amendment was to reduce the time allowed by the local government unit to change existing names promoting communism or other totalitarian system from 2 years to 12 months. This amendment was accepted and accepted. The second amendment tabled proposed an amendment to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 words 12 months for 5 years. This amendment was rejected by the committees and was tabled as a minority request. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy recommend the adoption of this draft law by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u181	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u182	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the Senate draft law prohibiting the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. I have no doubt that this is a historic and groundbreaking project that will contribute to the fact that we will finally be able to say: there has been a symbolic end to communism. The vote in favour of the bill will restore the principle that street patrons deserve our honor and glory. There will be no permission to commemorate people and events glorifying criminal totalitarian systems. Unfortunately, despite the passage of 26 years since the end of the Polish People's Republic and the beginning of changes in urban naming, we can still find communist street patrons. A clear example of the need to make changes in this matter is the municipality of Bogatynia in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, where we will find the streets of the Red Army, Karol Świerczewski, Marcel Nowotka or Georgi Dimitrov, prime minister of communist Bulgaria from the years of Stalinism. But this is not an isolated case. It is estimated that there are still about 1300 names throughout the country that glorify the communist system - 11 Red Army streets, more than 90 names associated with the anniversaries of the Polish People's Republic, 10, 20- and even 40 years of the Polish People's Republic. In Gliwice we still have Władysława Gomłka Street, in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskiego Street - Wanda Wasilewska Street, and in Wójcin in Łódź Voivodeship - the street not only Karol Świerczewskiego Street, but even Feliks Dzierżyńskiego Street. These are examples of neglect or sin of omission by some local governments, who for many years tolerated names promoting communism. This state of affairs causes the streets of real heroes to cross with the streets of their communist oppressors and executioners. Of course, decommunization in naming should take place at the beginning of the 1990s, but today we are making this change in our sense of duty for raising future generations of Poles in a country which should be free from the relics of communism. In our view, the High House cannot agree to any name promoting communism or any other totalitarian system. We are a nation whose history of the struggle for freedom knows many examples of heroic attitudes of steadfast resistance to criminal systems. It is worth recalling the person of Witold Pilecki, who as a volunteer went to the German Auschwitz concentration camp, and then after a bravado escape and fight in the Warsaw Uprising he was tortured and sentenced to death by the communist regime. This bill is treated as a restoration of dignity to heroes and another step towards restoring historical truth and strengthening the sense of the national community. The heroes of our history are bravely fighting for the freedom and independence of Poland people of solidarity, steadfast soldiers cursed, Warsaw insurgents, soldiers of the Polish Underground State. That is why today we must give a clear signal: for communism and other totalitarian systems there can be no place in the naming of streets, squares, squares and public buildings. The proposal takes into account the request made during the public consultation. The exchange of documents for residents will be free of charge and the change of name made under the Act will also not affect the validity of documents containing the current name. We have confidence in local governments, so we assume that within 12 months of the entry into force of the law most local governments will change the names that have so far promoted communism or other totalitarian systems. If no such change occurs, then the voivode will issue a replacement order within 3 months of the date on which the 12-month period expired after consulting the Institute of National Remembrance. At the same time, we see the need to remove from the public space such obelisks, plaques and monuments as so-called. a monument of gratitude to soldiers of the Soviet Army in Warsaw in Skaryszewski Park. In this case, all you need to remove this monument is goodwill from the capital of the Civic Platform and President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz. I encourage such communist relics of the past, whose main purpose was to forge history, not to mislead future generations. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Senate bill and will vote in favour of it. At the same time, I would like to thank the senators who have prepared and tabled this legislative initiative. It is high time to say directly: the symbolic end of communism in Poland has come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u183	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Wojciech King, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Senate draft law prohibiting the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The Civic Platform Club shares the view that it is not possible to commemorate or otherwise promote persons, organisations, events or dates symbolising communism or another totalitarian system. This applies to the name given by local government units to buildings, buildings and public utility facilities, including roads, streets, bridges and squares. The project clarifies that it refers to names referring to persons, organisations and events or dates symbolizing repressive, authoritarian and non-sovereign system of authorities in Poland in the years 1944 and 1989. The draft also contains procedural rules which relate to the implementation of the prohibition contained therein, including: gives the voivodship the power to issue a decision to annul a resolution giving the name of a building, object or utility. Before such a decision enters into force, he is to be required to consult the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, and may also consult the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom. As the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, we see the need to implement the regulations contained in the basic provisions of this law, especially as we have participated in the process of creating it ourselves. We believe that the process of decommunization of public space started after 1989 in Poland, in which politicians of the Civic Platform also actively participated, must be completed, and there is no doubt about the validity of this law. We will also find entries on this subject in the Constitution in the article. 13, as well as in the Penal Code in Article. 256. Ladies and gentlemen, changes should only apply to obvious patrons and cannot go too far. They cannot be an opportunity to write an individual story, they cannot be an opportunity for individual assessment, as well as for guesses. We believe that there should be close cooperation with the Institute of National Remembrance. Finally, the only question we have with this law is to reduce the time that local governments will have to implement these changes, especially in view of the costs they will have to bear. The Senate has proposed two years, and this is after consulting the local authorities, but now, as a result of the work of the committee, in line with the amendment introduced by the Law and Justice, this time is to be only 12 months. [[Only? Plus three months.]] We read in the explanatory memorandum that the entry into force of the Act will entail costs for the state budget, but these costs will not be missed - perhaps above all - by local governments, also entrepreneurs, and will be associated with the exchange of documents, changing tables with street names, signposts, stamps, business cards. Therefore, given above all the well-being of local authorities, but also entrepreneurs, we believe that the implementation time of the provisions of the law should be just 2 years, as it was originally in the project. To conclude, the Civic Platform Club supports the senate project. We'll vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Jaskola.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u186	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today I will not start with the socialists of believers and non-believers, although I must thank the Senate very much that it came up with such a proposal and that finally after 1989 we are trying to close symbolically the period of communism in Poland, although I have doubts whether it still does not exist in many areas. There are significant resumes. Communism in Poland was introduced by thugs, criminals - do not be afraid to use this phrase - especially from the People's Guard, but not only. They were people who fell. Grandpa was moving in, dad was already in the ministry, then dad and grandson were often at the Fulbright Foundation. Those Communists pretended to, in fact, to the PZPR gangsters, the services somehow tasted weird in the West. 26 years ago, the commune fell on its feet. Today, one of the parliamentarians called for sleep. Professor Kozłowski. I even respect you, Professor Kozłowski, but a slight remark, Professor Kozłowski allowed to enter into the archives of the Security Service a committee of a well-known editor, who manages the Gazeta Wyborcza, where for almost two months the most secret documents were taken and viewed. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] So, a little bit of truth. You must also be referred to as Deputy Minister Kozłowski. [[All of it.]] This House is intended to exchange views and truth. Zbigniew Herbert said we have this problem, it's a semantic disorder. We don't call the truth a fraud, we have a semantic problem. Anything that works only works when we can start by changing the name. We are to restore the Aristotelian standard, i.e. the so-called. principle of the measure excluded: either you are or you are not. Please pay attention to the perfidity of communism, to the perfidity of those gangsters who ruled Poland and who very often because they fell on four feet, today have children on the great boards of banks, the highest institutions. There are 200 secret security co-workers at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have nearly 1800 people who have revealed their agential past in the election office, everywhere. They're still here. That's where you need iron. These people need to be politically excluded from their activities. They harm the Polish state. They can be blackmailed. We cannot allow people who have been educated in Moscow... Suddenly it turns out that today they have calculated that they can serve the Polish state. No, they will never serve the Polish state, because it will always be an odium of the problem - that they can be blackmailed. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, about the project itself, we totally agree. It's just a problem. Of course, this problem, for us at least, is the cost. The state has to take on the cost of change, but that's just what you have to do. I'll tell you personally that on January 17th I fought with a board that for 70 years at the Częstochowa University of Technology hung and misled people. And now please pay attention: the city authorities are reportedly liberating by the Red Army. Ladies and gentlemen, I am shocked that you can be either so stupid or so messed up. There was no liberation. The Red Army did not liberate Poland. These are the same soldiers who cut the Polish state with Ribbentrope in 1939. They're not other people. I don't care that it wasn't Sasha, and it was Grisha. They were people of criminal organizations. No symbols, no Nazism, no communism, no fascism must be supported. Ladies and gentlemen! When I tried to cover it up on January 17th, Sojczynski... He's such a Częstochowa hero. He is not to be spoken of in Czestochowa, I do not know if you know, because he was chased personally by Mr Moczar and young Major Smiersz, who later became, as it is said, a great Pole. I'm talking about Mr. Jaruzelski. I never say he's a general. He wasn't a Polish general. So it is forbidden to talk about this in Częstochowa, because he chased Sojczyński after Częstochowa after Lisińc. It took us 10 years to build the Obelisk of Sojczyński, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ten years of fighting in Czestochowa. Why? Because in local governments we have a deep commune and people from PZPR. You all need to be cut off. From the PZPR and maybe from the green clover. Maybe it'll get a little better. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u187	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today's Senate project is about banning the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system by calling objects, structures and public utility devices, i.e. changing existing names referring to the origin of the communist system. The project should therefore be called decommunization of public space. The first subparagraph of the statement of reasons states that the Senate has stated that the legislator cannot allow the promotion of communist symbolism, as it would be depraving for society. Okay. However, it is worth taking into account the fact that according to Article. 13 of the Constitution the promotion of any totalitarian system, including communist, is prohibited. I propose to clarify the rules, because I will remind you that after the May bombing in 1926 there was also an authoritarian system, derived from totalitarianism, about which political doctrine specialists know very well. As a result of this provision, the proposed project does not bring anything new, because the popularization of totalitarianism since 1997 under the basic law is regulated. Further consideration should be given to the meaning of the word "promoting." We would conclude that there is no such thing at present. The objects, buildings and devices of general interest, at least since the constitution was established, according to the letter of law, were not called in a manner referring to totalitarianism, and therefore do not promote them intentionally, contrary to the applicable law. In addition, let us clarify that the main intention of the senators and the applicant is to eliminate the names that exist in the public space referring exclusively to communism. The Modern Club agrees with the idea of eliminating, removing such names and places from public space. However, please bear in mind that existing names referring to totalitarian systems are only remnants after more than 40 years of the presence of influence of the Soviet Union in our country. We agree with the intention, but the resolution and draft law impose on local governments the obligation to carry out many administrative changes which will follow as a result of the entry into force of the law. In addition, the Act complements the Constitution's provision to prohibit the broadcasting of names relating to persons, organisations, events or dates symbolising communism to buildings, objects and devices of general interest. This is an important description of the nature of the dissemination of communism. However, I recommend that we consider and define this precisely by creating a catalogue of these names, which will leave no doubt to local authorities in the future, which names can be taken into account and which we should never use. It would be too complicated to verify the name proposed by the IPN or the Council for the Protection of Combat and Martyrdom Memory, which, as amended by the Act on IPN, could soon become part of the Institute. Besides, such a catalog would make it impossible to be paranoid, e.g. when choosing patrons for public facilities. We have to remember that. Julian Tuwim or Jan Brzechwa are mostly Polish writers despite their express sympathy for the communist apparatus. So will the names of the streets bearing their names disappear from the cities? Moreover, their dubious merits for the People's Poland and system per analogy can be compared to the benefits of the Polish society as a result of the entry into force of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, only local authorities are able to reliably determine how many places of public interest in Poland refer to the communist system with their names. On this basis, it would be appropriate to decide which of them explicitly and undoubtedly agree with the planned provisions governing this issue. According to the proposed regulations, local governments will have one year to change the prohibited street names by law. We have called for this provision to be revised and the local authorities to be able to reform in time for up to five years. The amendment is gone. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens will bear the costs of exchange of documents, the costs of photography, the exchange of tables indicating property, business cards, signposts, travel expenses, exchange of company paper. Doing so at the appointed time, within a year, will cause great dissatisfaction and citizens will oppose these rules. Instead of doing so quickly and in a hurry, a gradual change would have a better effect, which would allow society to properly prepare for this process. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose an amendment to the creation of a catalogue of prohibited names. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u189	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u190	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! At the initiative of the Senate of the Republic of Poland today we proceed to the proceedings on the report of the joint committees about, generally speaking, the removal of the remnants of the past period, and in particular about the prohibition to promote totalitarianism. Although the report submitted does not contain much detail, it is already very meaningful because of the intention of the Senator's Chamber. The Republic of Poland is a free country. Our nation has many reasons for boasting and pride not only of great tidings, but also maybe today some forgotten patriots, people of hard work and those who have made a great contribution to the development of our homeland over the decades. It became almost a tradition of vacuuming history, and with it rediscovering even among the generations of modern righteous people, whose well-being of our homeland has always been at heart. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The legislator gives a special role to the voivodeship and the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes Against the Polish Nationals, as well as to the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom as depositaries and guardians, as regards the assessment of the designation of objects or the object of questioning the validity of the names of objects already existing. It's a good and correct direction, but here I'm counting on moderation and reasonableness. Each totalitarian system not only enslaves the nation and corrupts its citizens, but also - which is worth noting - creates a foundation for the growing resistance movement. So that at this point I would like to ask for restraint in the application of the new law, so as not to create, not to stand on the altars of random characters and not to divide society. The local community, or local governments, has a huge role to play. Here, too, they bow down, as I appeal, to reason and balanced decisions. In view of the limited time possibilities, I will not refer to organisational and technical solutions, as has already been mentioned in this Chamber. They are obvious and result from simple logic and necessity. Our doubts are only raised by the fact that the costs of implementing the law will largely be borne by local governments and that they will have to do so in such a short time. High Seym! The Polish People's Party, faithful to the Christian roots and traditions and to the many sufferings of its activists, will support the adoption of the standards contained in the report of the joint committees, print No 351. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u191	Thank you, sir. 15 parliamentarians signed up for the questions. If there's no more... You're still on board. It's time for the question to be asked for two minutes. I'm closing the list of speakers. The first question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Wilk, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here, one of the Members spoke about costs and that we should be careful not to violate the dignity of people whose names appear on different buildings. I think we're 25 years too late. [[Applause]] [[Definitely.]] That's the problem. Many things would have been easier if the Sejm had adopted such a law in 1989, we would have been far ahead. However, I, as a self-government officer, note here that in art. 1 In addition to the names of the buildings, I believe that symbols should also be mentioned. We respect the cemeteries, we respect the graves of the soldiers, and the communist symbols that appear on the monuments often preceding these cemeteries promote communism, which is the ideology that we oppose. Therefore, the term "symbols' should also be included in this law in Article. 1, and later, when we exchange roads, streets, bridges, squares and other buildings, it seems to me that the monuments should be saved, because, ladies and gentlemen, we hear about it ourselves... I was President of Elbląg and I had a problem because before one of the schools there was a monument - for me a traitor, for others perhaps someone more worthy - Janek Krasicki. He reported students, professors in 1940 in Lviv, and they were sent to Siberia. And he was a hero, an example of imitating schoolchildren. I had to use the fort to remove that statue from school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The mayor of Money has a problem with General Czerniachowsky. That is why I would ask you to include these monuments here, because it will make things easier for local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u193	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going straight to the questions I'm going to be explaining. The first point is why the law should not be entitled: to prohibit the promotion of communism and another totalitarian system and to cover the consequences of this? The essence of the ban should be to refrain from any form of dissemination of communism and totalitarian system - including through publications, advertising and other media of information. The principle is that if something is not prohibited, it is allowed. It should be considered that the same reasons for changing the names of streets and squares should also apply to other objects and objects. Unfortunately, in this form, the law offers the possibility to promote totalitarian systems, including communism, by individuals. Let me give you a concrete example: the Highlander in Poronin thought that for commercial reasons Lenin should be mentioned and, therefore, he built a monument to Lenin in his plot. Is this public space or private space? Luckily, the object was destroyed by the enemy. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha!]] Why is the proposed law incompatible with the contested law amending the IPN Act, even in so far as it relates to what entity the voivode would ask for an opinion if there was doubt about whether the object was a commemoration of communism? After all, the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom disappears and the Office for the Protection of National Remembrance appears. After all, it would suffice to mention that such an opinion is issued by the IPN - without the posting of a specific entity to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u195	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The entry into force of this law will entail costs for the State budget. It goes on for example. about expenses related to exchange of documents, change of tables with names of streets or squares. I therefore ask the question: Are applicants able to give the cost of the above mentioned actions to be charged to the State Treasury? How many - estimated - streets, bridges, squares on a national scale will this bill include? To what extent will the number of official posts necessary to implement the provisions of this law increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u197	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Starzycki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a very good thing that today, after all these years, we're going through this bill. This law was awaited by the veterans' community, the patriotic environment, but also by local authorities who delayed the resolution of this issue themselves, mainly due to the costs associated with the exchange of documents by the inhabitants. I will remind you that after the adoption of this law, which we are talking about, the inhabitants of these costs will not bear. On the other hand, in order to ensure that this law is implemented as efficiently as possible, minor issues need to be clarified. Among other things, there is a doubt about changes in the names of internal roads, as has been pointed out, among others. The Polish County Union. Well, according to the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a The law on public roads adopted by the municipal council a resolution on the designation of an internal road requires the written consent of the owners of the areas on which it is located. I therefore ask the rapporteur, "Will the municipality council be obliged to agree on a new road name with its owner in order to rename the internal road, or will it be free to do so? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u199	Please take the floor of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we've waited 20 years for this bill. She should come along with the moment when the democratically elected authorities in Poland began to be elected. Unfortunately, this did not happen and the result is a situation in which in many places in Poland, also in the Podlasie voivodeship from which I come, there are still names referring mainly to the communist system. As it turned out, believing that local governments will solve all problems of Poles and will also hold the right, patriotic attitude, such as the Pole should represent, does not always work. There are local governments that, for political reasons, try to further glorify former communist activists, and without the obligation to change these names legally, unfortunately, this problem cannot be solved. Referring to the provisions of the bill itself, it is worth raising what one of my previous speakers was talking about - this duality of appealing the voivode to two authorities to consult whether the given name is appropriate under the law or not. It is enough to leave the Institute of National Remembrance itself, especially since it will soon absorb the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom and prevent such duality of the procedure. So I think that at this stage of the work it is worth noticing this element and correcting the bill. There was also a mention of the costs that will be incurred in the implementation of this law. It is worth noting that it will cost very much spread over time, because the change of name itself will not force Polish citizens to exchange documents, because the law clearly states that the documents will remain valid. Although we may have doubts here, because in view of this patriotic attitude we may have doubts, but this will not mean an exchange of identity cards. So it's going to be the most massive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cost and the biggest. The law thus formulated virtually eliminates these costs. They will remain only in legal circulation where necessary in economic activities. It is good that this law finally appeared in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u201	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should have said goodbye long ago. It is a system that destroyed our nation, and hence - its representatives should not have monuments or their streets in Poland. I wonder why we waited 25 years for this bill and why it was so reluctant. I myself am 27 years old and feel like we moved a little over time, because we are in 2016, and we are really dealing with decommunization of Poland. I hope that these issues will now be resolved. Is this the beginning of total and true decounization of Poland? I mean not only the names of the streets, but also the economy and politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u203	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Bogusław Sonik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! After 1989, Poland went through such a spontaneous, civic wave of decommunization, expressing the overthrow of monuments, removing signs, changing street names or workplaces, rejecting all communist symbols. Gradually, the enthusiasm faded. Every day's life has taken its toll. For years, we've been listening to stories about how complicated it is to change a name, how much it costs, and why? Every day has taken over, and that's not the way it's supposed to be. Therefore, this law is indeed an opportunity to fix this and decisively to rid itself of all these scraps of the previous regime. To those who are raising costs today, administrative problems, I would like to say that they do not. Look at the graves of those who gave their lives for Poland to be a free Commonwealth, [[Applause]] on the graves of those who often do not have graves, symbolic graves, pits from which we dig those who defended Poland, defended their independence. I think it's worth going over these costs, these administrative problems, even this dissatisfaction. Let this be a significant signal, also educational, also for those dissatisfied, a signal that today in Poland there is a different time and today those people cannot be a symbol, patrons of any public objects or streets. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u205	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Luke Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As it seems, simple matters should not be complicated. Constitution in Article. 13 and the Penal Code in Article. 256 prohibit the public promotion of fascist, communist or other totalitarian state. The case of this law arouses emotions, because it affects almost all major towns in the country. As Councilman of Bydgoszcz, I was also involved in this matter. The answer was negative. The argument has always been a nuisance for the inhabitants. However, the case is not marginal. In my city, it concerns the names of 12 streets, squares and squares, and people such as Tadeusz Durach, connected with the residents of the Soviet Intelligence in the Second Polish Republic, Zygmunt Berling, who accepted Soviet citizenship, cooperated with the NKVD and was deliberately sentenced to death by the Polish field court, Oskar Lange - President of the Polish PZPR Poselski Club in the years 1948-1952, i.e. in times of major repression, terror, Zbigniew Zaluski, who specialized in writing books deceiving the meaning of the fight and achievements of the Polish Underground State, the military activities of the National Army. There is also a street that praises the 6-year plan, which ruined the Polish economy, or the street of the People's Army. Only a legal solution can restore historical justice. I'm glad to be able to vote for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u207	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Porzuck.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My constituency, which is northern and western Wielkopolska, is an area where there are many names glorifying communism. Heroes of Stalingrad or Marian Buczek - it is they who patronize the streets in the center of northern Wielkopolska, in the center of Piła. The entire districts in Sieraków in the district of Międzychodzki are communist names: Janek Krasicki, Świerczewski gen. or the 25th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic. However, my question directly addressed to the rapporteur relates to another point: Is it possible to change the street patron without changing its name? This is about cases where the name of the communist activist was also worn by a noble person who was well recorded in history, even local ones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u209	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! I am very pleased that my colleagues from the Senate have prepared a bill prohibiting the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system. It is a pity that the project concerns only the names of buildings or objects of general interest. It is a pity that it does not apply to symbols and monuments, but maybe there is time for a parliamentary initiative. Finally, it's time to shake off Russian propaganda and executioners to call executioners and heroes - heroes. [[Applause]] Whose name bears a public building is not insignificant. It is a matter of ordering our values and our history. The question is: Waiting time - 12 months. Mr. Reporter, what took you so long? Why not six months? We've been waiting 26 years anyway. Proposals, amendments made by Members of the Modern Committee at the meeting are some anti-Polish action. Actually, that's what I might call colleagues: you're anti-Polish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u211	I ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Michalek. Excuse me, miss. Mr Gosievski is still here. [[Yeah, yeah, okay.]] Excuse me, miss.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u212	If necessary, you are welcome, Member. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the very beginning, the question I would like to ask: Would it be worth considering in the article. 1 paragraph 1 after the words "of general interest" fill in the entry for words including monuments? [[Voice from the room: In corrigendum mode, Marshal.]] Would you mind not disturbing me? Thank you very much. In the city of Ryn in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodeship in the city centre at the present police station, before the Civic Militia, stands a monument to the People's Authority's Defenders. As a result of my private investigations, I found that the old plaque, which was dedicated to the captain, the defender of Polish families in these lands, was broken in 1985 and commemorated the defenders of the people's power. When I asked the mayor and the current authorities, they said to me: Mr President, we will not hold games. And then the games were done. As I am a member of the Family of the Cursed Soldiers, I simply take it with my heart that wherever there are still monuments of the defenders of the people's authority. And my question, Minister, is that, by listing the squares and roads, it is necessary to supplement the entry about [[♪ The bell ♪]] monuments so that there is no doubt. In the 21st century the monuments of those who tormented us should not be criminals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u213	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski submitted a corrigendum. Only, sir, you haven't spoken yet. You're just gonna take the floor. So there's nothing to straighten out because... [[Yeah, but the thing is, there's still our formation...]] Mr President, you are written up for the vote, and I ask you very carefully, as part of the question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Senate bill on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices is not only extremely important due to our history, but is also a natural consequence of taking over power by the force which promised to fight communism. Thus, we are starting to follow the path of other European countries that have long settled with the previous system. For this I particularly want to thank the authors of this law. The project addresses the issue of streets, buildings and public space. In most cases it is enough to simply change the name, indeed, but there are also cases which in my opinion have not been included in the law. I'm talking about the monuments. In their case it is not always enough to change the name, it is simply impossible, because by their appearance they can call - and call - appropriate associations. Does the bill provide for any solutions to this problem? Are we going to go back to this topic separately? If so, when? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u215	Thank you, Member. Mr. Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, came forward as a corrigendum. I'm assigning one minute to corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u216	Mr President, this is for a Member who called my anti-Polish group - you seem to have gone very far. We're in the Polish Parliament, we're calling for an amendment. [[Anti-Polish.]] If we could, sir, that's how we react to everything you do. That word never came out of our mouths. It's good for the ethics committee, and we'll think about it. You should think ten times, especially since not so long ago, two days ago, President Kaczyński said something completely different - to avoid such a language. Aren't you just ashamed of it? My throat wouldn't cross my mind to call you anti-Polish. Just give me a second to think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u217	Mr Bogusław Sonik also corrected. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u218	Mr President, it is a shame to use such words in this House. You have no right to decide who is Polish and who is not Polish. We are all Poles, and it is Poles who are chosen in this House. You're insulting this House. And I feel the same way that my previous speaker said: how does this appeal work? Tomorrow at hours. 12 are to be discussed with the heads of all groups about simply to tone down the language of hatred, which also prevails in this Chamber, and this is an example of this. You don't have, again, a monopoly to decide who's Polish and who's not Polish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u219	And let's get back to the questions. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to express my huge thanks to the designers, to the senators, because the changes proposed in the bill have historical significance and were really long awaited. There is no shortage of places in our country where time seemed to have stopped in 1944 and 1989, at least in street names, objects, squares. It is a testimony of not a clear and clear change which followed the fall of communism in Poland. Thanks to the senate project, we undertake to carry out, after a quarter of a century, omissions and disregard also the constitution's provisions, the obvious one, it would seem, procedures. I have a question for the rapporteur: Do we know how large the scale of the problem, how many buildings, public buildings in the country will be affected by the amendment proposed in the bill? But my vote too, ladies and gentlemen, will be included in the need to eliminate monuments and symbols that we do not find in the provision proposed by the Act. The rapporteur said that this would be the good will of local governments for the time being. However, how can we see the goodwill of at least some local authorities who have maintained such an existing status? This is reprehensible. Therefore, I ask, the provisions of the bill for the present time will protect enough from the temptations of local governments, so that objects such as monuments, e.g. Monuments of the Red Army, or plaques to be seen as a testimony to history, because we have often heard such a translation that they are not communist symbols, and these are objects that testify to history? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is a huge need to actually undertake such a change and monuments, also plaques to be removed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u221	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski came forward this time as a correction, but I have such a huge request, because both Mr Furga's speech and Mr Ostrowski's... [[Voice from the room: Sonika.]] ... Sonika, I'm sorry, it wasn't a de facto correction. But this time I address Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski. Indeed, we are at a point where, regardless of the colours, the party banners that we come from, we should speak with one voice, because we owe this to the victims we are all asking for here, so I would ask that this correction be a correction rather than heating up other unnecessary emotions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u222	Dear Marshal, Honourable Members! I'll try not to heat up my emotions. However, I wanted to comment on what my colleagues said about calling Members of Modern Anti-Polish Members. Ladies and gentlemen! What should I call you, if the Polish society waited for 26 years for this law, when it was impossible to name the truth by name. We now have a situation where this historic bill, actually I think, will be voted out by majority votes or all clubs, and you are proposing to postpone the date of entry into force of this law for 5 years. After all, this is anti-Polish, anti-national action. I have the right to think so, this is my personal view, and I think this House has come to a time when things can be called by name. I do not know whether cultivating political correctness serves well the interests of the country and the interests of Poles. I have a deep doubt. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal! Briefly and on the subject.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u223	Thank you, sir. [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] I'm sorry. Both your previous statement and this time Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski were not a correction. Gentlemen, you're abusing the rules. What do you want to straighten out, sir? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Then go to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure and apply a completely different paragraph. And now I'm asking another person to speak. Mrs Marta Golbik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u225	I call on your fellow Members to order.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u226	I'll take it back...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u227	Please turn this discussion into colloquials and allow the honourable Member to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u228	Thank you. I will refer to the words of Mr Ostrowski, because the charge is enormous. Modern at no time, at no point did she deny this law. We want to support her, but... [[These five years are an amendment tabled by Mr Suchon.]] ...we want to make the law responsible. And if we're creating a law that's responsible, then we have to check the full conditions. Have the Members or at all Members who are commenting on how to implement it as soon as possible checked what the cost is? Sometimes changing the name of the street group or the whole estate is over PLN 1 million. Will there be compensation for local government units? Yes, I am still speaking to the Member, Mr Ostrowski! I am speaking to you because you very irresponsiblely call us an anti-Polish group, while all social research proves that local governments have very high social support in contrast to the extremely politicized power we are. So, please... [[Voice from the room: Modern.]] No, I'm talking about the entire legislative authority. So it's important to bear in mind that somebody's gonna have to do this bill. And we want to introduce it, and an extension of this period is supposed to make it possible and finance it. So that the creation of law in this way is irresponsible, and that is the only reason why we are making such amendments, which of course do not enjoy your interest. It is best now, immediately, under the public, to quickly introduce everything without considering the consequences for local governments. And your words are simply extremely irresponsible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask questions, but I'm not gonna make it. I'm so sorry. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Welcome to the roundabouts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u229	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! As an anti-Polish man whose Uncle Jan Kołakowski fought at Monte Cassino, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your words are not irresponsible, they are embarrassing. They are unworthy of a Member of the Republic of Poland. Take this deep into your heart. Because your formation does not know the moderation, as evidenced by the laws restricting Polish democracy, I fear all your movements in the symbolic space of our country. You can see the black and white world, which is proof of today's discussion. Let us leave this space to scientists, historians, people of culture, artists, all of this, and thus to society. Let us not force totalitarian symbolic coercion. I'd like to ask you about that. Answer me the question: What do you mean by other totalitarian systems, because I am very afraid of this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u231	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 20 years since Poland regained its sovereignty, there are still elements of communism in public space and are persecuting us. We must remember that the crimes committed by the communist regime took about 170 million lives in the world in the 20th century. I'll remind you, among other things. hunger in Ukraine, which has consumed more than 5 million victims. It is also difficult to determine the number of Poles. In 1995 Prof. Ryszard Legutko wrote in one of the column: PRL has something from a vampire. He's been buried dozens of times. And he's still alive and letting on. Everything points to the fact that an aspen stake that could vanquish him has not yet been wiped out. Those words, unfortunately, are still valid. Didn't the time just come for a properly finished and effective aspen stake, which once and for all will destroy the elements of communism in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u233	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Sebastian Chwałk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law provides for a ban on the granting by units of local government to buildings, buildings, public utility facilities, including roads, streets, bridges and squares, names which commemorate or promote persons, organizations, events or dates symbolising communism or other totalitarian system. The aim of the proposed law is also to eliminate existing names promoting symbols of totalitarian systems. In the course of parliamentary work, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Local Government and Regional Policy have tabled amendments to shorten the deadline for local authorities' bodies to change names that are not compatible with the proposed law from 2 years to 12 months. The government's position was not prepared for the bill, but certainly because of the assumed result, i.e. the removal from public life of the remains of the symbols of the communist political order, it deserves support, thus, of course, I kindly ask the High House to adopt this law. I would like to address the questions that have been raised by your Members. As to the possible change in the nomenclature of internal roads, it is probably appropriate to apply the rule that a specific provision which will work in this law should at this time settle the matter, although I have not heard that such problems of names which the Institute of National Remembrance theoretically indicates appear at the moment in space. There are about 1300 of them, they refer to some part, it's a variable number, it's probably going to be small. This does not appear to be the case for a significant number of internal roads. As regards the issue of the inclusion of monuments in the Act, it is also the matter which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with in the field of international agreements which bind the Republic of Poland and the Ministry of Culture, possibly in cooperation with the IPN. The Senate in its project did not assume an extension. Perhaps this case should be dealt with separately. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u235	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will try to answer all the questions that have been raised by the Members and Members of Parliament. The first thing is a matter of time. Why this proposal of 12 months to make a change by the local government? We have confidence, as I mentioned, to local governments and we realize that the long vacathio legis, which is a 3-month period from the announcement of this law to the entry into force of this obligation of local governments to change names that promote communism or other totalitarian system, is a sufficient period for conducting public consultations. I think that three months would be enough to hold a public consultation with residents and choose another optimal name in accordance with the rules that operate within a given local government unit. We are aware that even if this proposal by Mr Ostrowski for six months would also be feasible for all local authorities, because we are also talking about an extremely diverse situation. In some municipalities there is not a single name that would promote communism or other totalitarian systems, but there are also such places as I mentioned during the club appearance, which have many names, and in fact we can talk about the abandonment of any changes in the city nomenclature, which results in the presence of streets of the Red Army or, as I said, Felix Dzierżyńskiego Street. I do not need to convince you that these are not formations or characters that deserve to be remembered in naming. As far as this period of 12 months is concerned, we are aware that this is an optimal period, this is a period for which, I think, there is a full understanding from the self-governments with whom I have spoken, and even an indication that many revolutions that have been carried out in the last 8 years have been put into effect even faster than within 12 months, and often within 3 months the local government had to be prepared for urgent changes introduced by the legislator. I would like to answer another question, raised by Mr Marcin Porzuck, concerning cases of changing the name of the street consisting in replacing a communist patron with another hero with the same name and giving the name identically sounding. This is also the case from my local government experience in Warsaw. Well, a few years ago, ul. Aleksandra Kowalski at the Warsaw Targówk, whose patron was a communist, gave the name ul. Aleksandra Kowalski, a well-known hockey player, a representative of Poland, who died in Katyn, who deserves such a commemoration in naming in the assessment of the Warsaw government. Of course, this involved the listing of signs indicating who is the patron of this street, which means there is no way that it is the person who was a communist. This change of street name on the street. Aleksandra Kowalski was welcomed by the residents with great understanding and great satisfaction. If there are such cases, I do not mean - I immediately reserve on my part - neither Karol Świerczewski, nor such names and names that arouse very much controversy, I do not encourage such characters as Aleksander Kowalski, a hockey player who died in Katyn, who deserve to be remembered as much as possible. I would also like to refer to the amendments tabled by the Modern Poselski Club and recall the opinion on this matter, which was presented by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Dr. Łukasz Kaminski, who in his letter wrote to the senators, quote: The solutions adopted in this draft law on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system should be assessed as a proper and efficient legal mechanism for making the necessary changes. And there is also an indication in the opinion of President Kaminski, I quote: The advantage of the solution is to introduce a general legal definition of the promotion of communism without enumerative and casuistic exchange of facts. The construction of a closed catalogue of such cases is both difficult and ineffective, because it can prevent individual assessment of individual cases - sometimes very complicated ones. I fully agree with this opinion of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, and I do not share the opinion of the Members of Modernity that a list of names which are undesirable should be drawn up. Next thing you know, it's a cost question. Of course, we are aware that there will not be any such costs in some municipalities, because for many years there have been no names in them that promote communism. On the other hand, following a public consultation, after obtaining information from the Institute of National Remembrance, we know that the Institute estimated costs of 1,200 thousand. zł. However, let us remember that the IPN will play a significant role in the decommunization of public space. Of course, we assume that expenditure that will be borne by local governments, even in connection with lost income from the exchange of documents, can be covered peacefully by current expenditure by the local government. Another issue concerns the designation of an internal route, as mentioned by the Minister. I think it's obvious. In such a case, the consent of the owner or owner of the site is required. Ladies and gentlemen! Another, perhaps the last, thread raised in your statements concerns monuments. Of course, I fully agree that as far as local governments are concerned, where such obelisks are located, so-called. monuments of gratitude to the Soviet Army, which are not war cemeteries and burial sites, nothing stands in the way, no international agreements between the Polish People's Republic and the Russian Federation, so that such obelisks cannot be removed from public space. I think that in this case we must count on good will and responsibility from the councils of municipalities and voytes. I think it's important. This whole discussion that has been going on today, and what we have heard from many sides, from many parliamentary groups, means full agreement that it is time to end communism with naming. I think that similarly we agree that in our country, which was very much experienced by history, we must end with any communist relics and other totalitarian systems. We are aware that this is a matter which, after 26 years, we will be able to consider to be concluded if the High House passes this draft law, which I am of course referring to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u237	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and of the Polish Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints No 286 and 353). I ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Rules of Procedure and of the Parliamentary Affairs Committee on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No 286. The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm is to amend the time limits for the submission of draft resolutions establishing a person or event of the year concerned and to submit a report on the projects referred to above by the Committee on Culture and Media to the Sejm. The project applicants consider that the proposed change of time limits will allow all the institutions, organisations and other entities concerned a reasonable time to organise the activities related to the establishment of a given year for the person concerned or to commemorate the event concerned. This will contribute to a worthy celebration of the person or event who is the patron of the year established by the Sejm. The current deadlines, in the assessment of the applicants, for submitting a draft resolution by 31 October and for presenting a report to the Committee on Culture and Media by 30 November, did not guarantee such an opportunity due to the short passage of time from the date of adoption of the resolution by the Sejm until the beginning of the year which was established by the year of the person or event. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee on 26 February 2016. The first reading was held at a committee meeting on 16 March 2016. No amendments were made. The committee therefore requests the High Sejm to adopt a draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u239	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice relating to the parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. These changes are contained in print No 286 and the report is contained in print No 353. The proposed amendments concern Article. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 and paragraph 1. 3. The rapporteur has already told the rapporteur very clearly about these changes. On behalf of the club, I want to ensure that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u242	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I wanted to declare my support for these changes extending the time after Parliament's adoption by the Sejm, the patron, the appointment of a person or event as patron of the following year. Of course, setting up a patron of the year is not the most important decision that Parliament makes, but certainly an important symbolic tone. It is important that all institutions across the country also have time to prepare for the proper organisation of a given year. Probably such an ideal of recent years is the Chopin Year, which had a very broad reflection throughout the country and also abroad. I know that every year, at least every year, teachers expect Parliament to decide who will be the patron of a given year and prepare for their teaching work with young people. The fact that they're going to have more than six months is a very good solution. So that on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I declare my support for this regulatory change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u243	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Borowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. They relate to two issues. The first is to change the deadline for submitting a draft resolution on the establishment of a person or event in question by 30 April of the preceding year. The second is an extension to a maximum of five projects, and not - so far - three projects. From the point of view of the Sejm, as my predecessor has already said, these may not be particularly important changes, but they are very important for those institutions and persons who intend to commemorate persons or events highlighted in adopted resolutions. The process of planning cultural events, which must be said, has a specific timetable in which time should be taken into account for substantive work, for promotion, but also for these cultural institutions and other actors to be able to obtain adequate funding for such events, especially as they are often not large institutions, and through such initiatives they can somehow arouse interest in themselves, encourage citizens to participate actively in this cultural space in Poland, which is unfortunately still largely degraded. This is particularly evident in the district Poland, and the issue of financing is still overdue even from the time of transformation, when culture was treated as a stepmother. The previous solution has often resulted in the inability to take part in various competitions, to prepare for this, and this commemoration has often been invisible to the rest of society. On the other hand, creating the right conditions for these projects not only helps those who organise such initiatives, but also brings with them a great educational value, because we are able to interest most citizens in this and strengthen their sense of national pride. It is worth mentioning that this increase in the number of commemorative resolutions should not lead to less diligence in their selection and focus only on those maybe the greatest moments or personalities, but should also help to extract those who are more forgotten, and who have especially enrolled in building national identity and community. The Kukiz Club15 will, of course, support the proposed amendments to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u245	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure is to amend the time limits for the submission of draft resolutions establishing a person or event for a given year. The Modern Club has no objections to these changes. Neither did the Rules of Procedure. The applicant shall justify that the proposed change of time limits will allow all the institutions, organisations and other entities concerned a reasonable time to organise the year in question to be devoted to the person concerned or to commemorate the event. This will contribute to a worthy celebration of the event or person who is the patron of the year established by the Sejm. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u247	I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the subject discussed by the rapporteur. This change will certainly improve and enable better preparation for the commemoration of the event or person concerned, and will certainly not allow such situations as occurred last year, when the conclusions have been flowing throughout the year, including from NGOs. After the elections, these proposals were out of date and the Sejm also amended the Rules of Procedure in order to extend the deadline for their adoption. Therefore, the proposed change today is absolutely justified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u249	Thank you, Member. Since no one has asked questions, I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Marzena Machalek, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u250	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for the fact that practically all parliamentary clubs voted in favour of the draft resolution. I would also like to thank Mrs Elżbieta Rauk, on behalf of the applicant, for her excellent work on the project and for her support for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u251	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. We will join the third reading of the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 6 and 7 of the agenda: 6. First reading of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws (Print No. 334). 7. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (print No 333). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to present the reasons for the draft laws and resolutions contained in prints 334 and 333 respectively. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the justification for the bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National, hereinafter referred to as the Institute. High Izbo! Today's amendment is the result of an analysis of the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance for the last 5 years. This analysis concerns not only the evaluation of the functioning of the IPN over the last 5 years, but also new tasks, new challenges that should be faced by the Institute of National Remembrance as an institution that should serve to shape and create the country's historical policy. Undoubtedly, the Polish state must and should shape civil attitudes, patriotic attitudes, because this is all for building the potential of the state. Therefore, this amendment focuses on those elements that will give us the basis for the offensive activity of the Institute of National Remembrance, giving the President of the Institute of National Remembrance the opportunity to shape the historical policy of the state, because the Institute of National Remembrance is not an institution which is dedicated to the corporations of historians. This is an institution which is intended to serve the Polish state, not one or another professional corporation. I want to make this clear. The main principles of this law go in such a way that the search for, identification and commemoration of the victims of the communist system, which has done so much evil in Poland, is carried out by one institution - the Institute of National Remembrance. Today we have a duality in the question of the search for victims, identification and, finally, commemoration. Therefore, we introduce among these new solutions such as will give the possibility to exhume victims of totalitarianism in the course of criminal proceedings. Such legislation will allow for a much faster setting of burial sites and commemoration and finally honoring the victims of the communist state. Therefore, while amending the law in this regard, we are moving away from administrative procedures in the search for victims, we are introducing criminal rules that will give the possibility of exhumation in criminal proceedings and thus much faster finding and searching for victims of the communist system. This is also the purpose of combining the Institute of National Remembrance with the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom. We therefore believe that the search for, identification and commemoration of victims of totalitarianism should take place in one institution, so that one institution takes care of the whole process. What is extremely important, we also introduce in a completely new way new research and educational functions into the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance. We want these two elements - research and educational functions - to be performed much more effectively than before, so that the IPN actually has instruments to create and shape the historical policy of the Polish state, but also to counteract various false information, which often appears not only in Polish media, but mainly in foreign media, about the functioning and Polish history. Which is extremely important, we are introducing a new model for the election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. We propose that the President be elected by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate, after consulting the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. The Act provides that, instead of the Council, we will appoint a college consisting of nine representatives: five appointed by the Sejm, two appointed by the President and two appointed by the Senate. The College of the Institute of National Remembrance is a return to a solution that was before 2010. The body appointed will be the consultative body of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and will approve its annual reports, evaluate and recommend the activities of the Institute, approve the principles of recording, storing, drawing up, securing, making available and publishing documents, express opinions on the decisions of the President in relation to the making available of documents, and set priorities for the provision of documents collected by the Institute. What is extremely important is that we prohibit the recruitment of members of the College of National Remembrance by the Institute of National Remembrance. We believe that it is a highly inappropriate situation - it is so now - that the members of the council, or bodies, which should be the supervisory, control body, at the same time are entities of civil law agreements with the Institute of National Remembrance. We would ask the President of the Institute if he is listening to this debate so that he can release as soon as possible all the agreements that have been concluded by the President with the members of the Council, all the civil law agreements. The new shape of the Institute will be linked to new tasks that are imposed on the Institute, so we propose that in addition to existing units new organisational cells be created, such as the Office for the Protection of National Remembrance Sites, the Office for Search and Identification, the Office for Historical Research and the Office for National Education. We believe that this model, combined with existing functions that would be included in addition to this in the Mirror Office, the archive office, will comprehensively fill and give the possibility of some specialization and directional action of the IPN on all these levels. I would like to stress that these instruments, which we expect the Institute of National Remembrance to implement, i.e. to rebuild the historical policy of the state, will be linked to the creation of new tasks that will be carried out by the research functions of the IPN. We offer the possibility or we impose an obligation on the institute, so that research is conducted not only on the latest history of Poland, but also on post-divisive history of Poland, including the history of Polish emigration and the history of Polish cultural heritage in the East. We also want - this is a new element - that in turn the educational functions of the Institute of National Remembrance should be realized by the dissemination in Poland and abroad of positions and opinions concerning the most important historical events for the Polish nation, the popularization of post-dissection and the latest history of Poland as part of patriotic education, and the promotion of knowledge about the participation of Poles and their military formations on the fronts of fights. And here a new, extremely important element in our assessment: this educational function is also to prevent the dissemination of information in Poland and abroad, publications about false historical content, hurting or defaming the Republic or the Polish nation. The Institute of National Remembrance is also to inform about the methods, places and perpetrators of crimes committed against the Polish nation, as well as to support social projects aimed at creating patriotism and national identity. These are new elements and we believe that the Institute of National Remembrance should implement them effectively in order to have the opportunity to shape and create historical politics in our country. These instruments also give the Institute of National Remembrance the opportunity to counter the dissemination of information about Poland and the Polish nation about false historical content or Poland defaming and in this respect the Institute of National Remembrance can and should cooperate not only with the Polish government, but also with diplomatic services of the Polish state. I would like to draw attention to another extremely important element of this law, which is just now a novel and which gives the possibility, as I said earlier, much faster than before, to carry out searches for victims of the totalitarian system, because we introduce in the search mode a criminal mode when the Institute of National Remembrance finds places where Poles were murdered - the penalty mode, so in case such places are found, the prosecutor of the Institute of National Remembrance, the main commission of criminal prosecution should be informed about the situation, and then in criminal proceedings there is exhumation of such victims, victims of totalitarianism. In our view, this situation will lead to a significant acceleration of exhumation compared to the current state. Those who are interested in this issue know how long and time-consuming it has been so far to determine, search, exhumation of victims of totalitarianism, how difficult it was to determine places of burial, and finally exhume the remains of steadfast soldiers, cursed soldiers and all heroes fighting for our freedom and victims of totalitarianism. Under the new regulations, the exhumation from all the graves will be managed by the District Attorney of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals, informing the president of the Institute about the place and time of the exhumation. There are allegations in the media that this situation can lead to certain inequalities or situations where, for example, there are situations where, for example, For exhumation in the places of the present cemeteries... Because it is important to remember that the communist apparatus arranged the execution sites in such a way to cover them later, and very often these places of death, places where exhumations are conducted, are in the currently active cemeteries. That was the purpose of the Communists to cover their memory, cover their knowledge, and blur their memory of these crimes. That is why we believe that everything must be done to remove the state of lawlessness that has existed for years. Our solutions adopted in the project aim to restore balance and protect the rights of families of victims of crime and to fulfil the responsibilities of the Polish state in the criminal, civil and administrative sphere. The adoption of a different view that this whole procedure will be based on administrative law, on many months of appeals, on the law of the court, leads to such a situation that not only the families of the victims, but also potential criminals who can still live, can rest assuredly expect such exhumations, because such exhumations do not involve investigations in the current legal state and at the same time the search for potential perpetrators, because - perhaps - some of these people are still alive. Hence, we consider it entirely appropriate to adopt the criminal procedure into the current situation and the current exhumation process in those places where crimes against Polish citizens were committed. Another extremely important element is the introduction to this amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Genetic Material. So far this situation, i.e. exhumation, then establishing the genetic material of the corpse, the remains of people who died because of the fight against the totalitarian system or because of repression - this information was not publicly... The Institute of National Remembrance had no instruments to collect, store, and finally inform about the effects of the work. Therefore, we propose that in this amendment we create rules that allow the creation of a Database of Genetic Material, which will include information about relatives of victims, as well as information about the bodies or remains of people who have lost their lives as a result of communist repression. Another important element, which I mentioned earlier, is the extension of the educational functions of the institute, which will be connected with the protection of memorial sites and martyrdom. This is a new chapter that we add to the bill, which involves combining the Institute of National Remembrance with the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom. We believe that the functioning of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, which de facto performs a lot of similar activities or performs many similar functions, is not intentional. We also believe that the commemoration process should work within the National Remembrance Institute. That is why we propose the merger of these institutions and the acquisition by the Institute of National Remembrance of both employees and any agreements and obligations that are currently being implemented by the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom. This will cause the president of the Institute to initiate and coordinate activities related to commemoration of historical events, places and figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people both in Poland and abroad, as well as the close places of fighting and martyrdom of other nations in the territory of the Republic of Poland, including the proposal that the president of the Institute should take care of such places, inspire and cooperate in organizing celebrations and celebrations, assess the state of care for such places and exercise the educational and caring functions of museums of fighting and martyrdom. Finally, I would like to stress that the law also contains provisions that will abolish the so-called. a restricted collection that currently operates at the Institute of National Remembrance. I will remind you that this is a collection that has been classified for almost 30 years because of the interests of the special forces. In recent years there have been many voices, whether it is necessary, that this collection should still be at the disposal of the services, since so much time has passed since the fall of communism in Poland and if it is not so that this collection is used by secret services or by people who have knowledge of the secret collection or materials that are included in the secret collection, to a certain game, also political game. Not long ago, the media revealed information about people whose data had been classified for many years in a restricted set. We believe that at the moment this collection should be abolished after agreement with the relevant services. Here we create a provision that gives the President of the Institute of National Remembrance the possibility of winding up the collection, of course after examining and agreeing the materials that are contained there, with the Minister of National Defence, with the Minister of Special Services Coordinator, the Head of the Internal Security Agency and the Head of the Intelligence Agency for the security of the state and possible secrecy of selected materials, but only on the basis of the provisions of the Act on classified information. High Izbo! We believe that the proposed bill will have a positive social impact, a positive impact on the creation of the state's historical policy, the promotion of citizens' attitudes, patriotic attitudes. We are open to discussing this project, because this issue is not an easy issue, so that we are asking here to take this initiative kindly, to lean on the solutions. We are also open to your initiatives that will allow the Institute of National Remembrance to fulfil its role, to which it was called, and to build our historical policy and patriotic attitudes in a positive way, to build our national identity. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u253	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Mirosław Stachowiak-Rózecka will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For us it is important to remember, therefore it is so important to restore the right place to those who gave away the most valuable, undisputed pursuit of effective historical policy in Poland and abroad, the obvious pursuit of truth and fight for the good name of Poland and Poles. We've been talking about this consistently for years. The initiative of President Lech Kaczyński to build the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising was a concern for memory. This is the kind of Poland we want to implement, this is the kind of Poland we will implement. There are still white spots unsolved in our history. There is a story that not even Poles often know, such as. Polish operation from 1937 to 1938, where more than 100,000 were murdered. Poles. The victims or families of the victims of the Augustow raid or the Polish-Bolshevik war are still waiting for their place in history. During all these years of the Institute of National Remembrance, much has been done, especially thanks to the great determination of many of its employees. However, the Institute's experience alone determines the need for change. It is especially about the problems that the Institute had to face during the search work carried out on the Link in Powązki or at the cemetery in Służew in Warsaw. The amendment will enable the performance of statutory obligations while respecting both the rights of the victims' families and the rights of the families of those buried in later years. Introduces e.g. the possibility of searching for remains of people who have lost their lives, fighting totalitarianism, based on the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It also regulates matters relating to the conclusion of a contract with the owner of the area where the research is carried out and possible compensations. It is difficult to question such proposals for changes in the novel, such as the possibility of exhuming not only the victims of the Second World War and just after. This time range is extended by the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. It is difficult to question the increased educational role of the institute. In this respect, the project envisages, inter alia, dissemination in Poland and abroad of positions and opinions on the most important historical events for Poles, carrying out educational tasks in cooperation with schools, universities, NGOs, Polish organizations, the creation of a database of genetic material or finally the elimination of an isolated collection of reserved ones located in the archives of the institute. We want the Institute of National Remembrance to have more competence to operate even more efficiently so that it can finally make full use of its scientific and staffing achievements. For this to be possible, the organisational changes that the applicant referred to are also necessary. We trust that the Institute of National Remembrance, which is the guardian of memory, will help us, Poles, shape our own identity. And today, all the more so today, when history and responsibility are often relativised when victims become perpetrators, so important is the historical policy that we hope the institute will run actively, consistently and effectively. And to all those who will speak after me in a moment: yes, but, maybe, and if, I dedicate the words of Marshal Józef Piłsudski: A nation that does not respect its past does not deserve respect for the present and has no right to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u255	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Anthony the Man. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish National and some other laws, print No 334, and the draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No 333. The scope of the Act on the amendment of the IPN Act concerns the procedure for the appointment of the President of the IPN, the abolition of the existing IPN Council and the creation of the IPN College as a body solely for the opinion-based advisory of the President, the modification of the structure of the organizational units of the IPN, the extension of the research and educational functions of the IPN, the extension of the temporal scope of the IPN research by the period from 8 November 1917, the creation of a database of genetic material of victims of repression and ethnic cleansing, the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance and Martyrdom and the transfer of its competences to the IPN, the liquidation of the reserved set in the IPN archives. On the other hand, the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm concerns the procedure for the appointment of five of the nine members of the IPN College and the President of the IPN. It is proposed that members of the college be appointed by simple majority at the request of the Marshal of the Sejm or at least 35 Members, and the President shall also be appointed by a simple majority at the request of 115 Members, after consulting the College of IPN. According to the justification of the bill, this amendment is the result of the previous experience of the IPN and an attempt to repair it. What is easy to notice, however, is not comprehensive. No changes have been made to the investigative height or to the checking of illustrative statements, although these are probably the most visible shortcomings of the functioning of the IPN today. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club has the most serious reservations about the proposed changes to the procedure for the appointment of the President of the IPN and the College of IPN. PiS model already known to us in this term of the Sejm, among others. with an amendment to the Civil Service Act, it politicallyises the way the IPN authorities are elected and thus the whole institution. The solutions so far have been exemplary. The presidents, but also the members of the IPN Council, were set up through a compromise between the scientific community and the parliament. The candidates for the Council were submitted by academic centres and from this group elected by the Sejm and the Senate and submitted by the community of lawyers and elected by the President, while the candidate for President was first selected by the IPN Council and then by a vote appointed by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate. In many institutions, despite repeated efforts, we have failed to achieve such a level of denial. The best example here is the National Radio and Television Council, where it did not work. It is not only that this current solution for the election of the President of the IPN meets the highest standards found in the civilized world, it has yet proved to be perfect in our reality and the best confirmation of this is the functioning of the IPN of this term. The current President has repeatedly demonstrated full independence from politicians, as it is the Council of the IPN represented by academics that exercises direct supervision over him, not politicians. The work of the IPN is satisfied with opposition and solidarity environments, which is often expressed on the occasion of various celebrations. Historians and opinion-makers also find no reason to complain. However, with these changes in the parliamentary bill, you will lead not only to the departure from these standards and the stubbornness of the IPN, but, given that it is one party with a parliamentary majority today, you will even lead to the specific enmity of the IPN by this party. It is the PiS that will practically appoint the President of the IPN and members of the college. That can't be our agreement. [[Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Antoni, Antoni, what are you talking about?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the other changes no longer raise our major concerns, it is for these reasons only Parliamentary Club Law and Justice... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Civic Platform requests that the project be rejected at first reading. Even though you're probably going to vote it out, this proposal makes sense, because the consent in the Polish Parliament cannot be made. [[Old habits remain.]] Thank you very much. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You have no conscience.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u258	Thank you, Marshal. I'm just filling in for Mr Mularczyk. Speaking of the draft law and the genetic database, the genetic material you are trying, you are proposing to include in the draft law, the Member forgot that according to the agreement or the act that you signed with the president of the medical university in Szczecin, the rector, I apologize, this base has existed in Szczecin for 4 years. I'm not questioning whether we're questioning the fact that the base is included in the bill. Such a necessity exists in my opinion. I get the idea. But it seems to me that it would be good, and I am counting on the help of Marshal Brudziński here to include in the bill that this base was mainly due to the achievements of the Szczecin center in Szczecin. Nothing stands in the way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want this genetic base, genetic material just to be in Szczecin. It will be to the glory of the institute and it will appreciate the achievements of the academic center and the city of Szczecin in this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u259	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u260	Dear Marshal, Mr. President! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to thank Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk first of all for his openness to proposals and cooperation. Let me start by saying that we have a whole range of different amendments, smaller and bigger. The biggest one you've mentioned from the Platform, about the restoration of the competition, I'm sure we'll put it together. But I will start from the beginning, i.e. the positive elements related to this law, i.e. the increase of this scope in question since 8 November 1917. This is a good proposal to change: to create a database of genetic code enabling the identification of victims of Nazi and communist murders in the Polish nation. This is the opening of a new Polish historical policy, which Mr Mularczyk referred to. This is also a thing that deserves to be appreciated and emphasized. The new law is also intended to improve the Institute of National Remembrance, which is the result of various reservations, which result primarily from those legal regulations which were adopted at the time of the previous major amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. It is necessary to stimulate the work of the Institute of National Remembrance and it is worth to return to these patterns of functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, which existed during the life of the dead. Janusz Kurtyki. This is primarily about returning to these regulations relating to the election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is also worth paying attention to some shortcomings that need to be improved as soon as possible in the course of the work, namely the abolition of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom and the Regional Committees for the Protection of Combat and Martyrdom, as well as the liquidation of the Office of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom. The whole initiative should be read positively, while the question of non-regulation in the draft law of matters relating to the organisation of tasks of the liquidated board taken over by the Institute of National Remembrance, as well as budgetary issues, raises great doubts. Let us remember that at the central level the Council did not have as much financial resources as at the voivodship level, so far it operates within the voivodship offices and these funds are decided by individual voivodships. As an example, it is worth recalling the war. Mazowieckie, where in 2015 the voivode had the amount of approx. 3.5 million PLN for the purposes which the voivodship committee was implementing to protect memory of fighting and martyrdom. It is also worth considering some proposal to change the state budget so that these funds are actually transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance for these tasks. And the most important point, the proposal to leave the competition, which we obviously and absolutely disagree on. We are in favour of returning to the model of election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance by indicating, by distributing a competition organized by the College of National Remembrance Institute, and then by the Sejm making the right choice from among the candidates presented by the College. This proposal, which is contained in the Act, is, in our opinion, unacceptable. Moreover, the lack of substantive criteria for the members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance raises doubts. Apart from moral and ethical issues, there are no other criteria, and such criteria should be found. There is also no provision for taking over responsibility for deciding whether a given object promotes communist ideology and how it should be removed. Moreover, there is our proposal to merge the branches of the Institute of National Remembrance with this general administration at the level of administrative division of the state into voivodships, so that this dichotomy of administrative division of the Institute of National Remembrance coincides with the administrative division of the state at the level of the voivodship. Place in the Act to ensure the stability of all verticals [[♪ The bell ♪]] as it has been so far, branch archival offices, branch offices of national memorial sites, branch offices of national education, branch offices of historical research, branch mirror offices, branch commissions for the prosecution of crimes against the Polish nation. To conclude, because I'm already out of time, I'm going to say that we're going to make a number of amendments. We make support conditional on their adoption during the third reading of the draft law as a whole, and at the moment, we will abstain from the vote in good will, giving you the opportunity to take these amendments, particularly those relating to the competition, into account during the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The content of the amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance raises our concerns. They concern the disturbing intentions of the Institute's total politicisation. The appointment of the President will belong to the Sejm. This idea is modeled, among others. in the election procedure of the ombudsman. Are the functions and competences of the Ombudsman similar to those of the head of the historical institute? They're not. The President of the IPN conducts scientific and research work, the spokesperson - no. Why is this change proposed? Just because the new president's already known? Isn't this about Mr. Sławomir Cenckiewicz? We'll see. You need a president who will interpret history in the only right way. Historical subjectivism is a threat. You're gonna start writing history again. What tools does the Sejm have to appoint the President of the IPN? The only competent verification body should be the Council of the Institute, i.e. historians, professionals. This change in staff undermines the independence of the institute. I therefore ask: What is the purpose of the applicants in order for the President of the IPN to be appointed by the Sejm, i.e. de facto by the governing party? You leave the president of the IPN out of control, primus inter pares. The Council of the Institute shall be transformed into a college and shall restrict the competence of that body. So far, the Council has received the report from the head of the institute every year. And now? You leave it at least as an illusory act. The creation of this feudal farm cannot be so perfidious! The statutes of the IPN shall take account of more than 100 posts for which candidates are consulted by the College, but these opinions need not be binding on the President. How so? What's the point of this record if the president's gonna do whatever he wants anyway? The academic and legal environment loses influence on the shape of the college. Is that normal? It's a clear proof of the pursuit of supremacy. Let's not kid ourselves, it's another post-media personnel bill. The list of names to be called is probably complete by now. So I'm asking. : What are the expected effects of removing the head of IPN from college control and why? Why should he be unpunished in his duties? The amendment also includes a reduction in the criteria for assessing candidates for IPN College members. Apart from Polish citizenship, we read about high moral values and knowledge useful in the work of the Institute. High moral values and useful knowledge are inaccurate, can be interpreted subjectively. What about a title or a degree? Can a member of the college be a person without a higher education? You're stripping the institute of its right to be serious. The degree of doctor or the title of professor is a guarantee of knowledge. How, then, will knowledge useful in the work of the Institute be verified? It's not gonna be a history exam, is it? Why have these criteria been clearly relaxed? There is a fear that these functions will come to incompetent people. You've disengaged an investigator's office as President by giving him to the Attorney General. Let me remind you that this has already been settled by the D.A.'s office. In this respect, the college will also remain vulnerable - this is a little ridiculous. In the light of these records, the prosecutor will be the payer and the president will only be the treasurer or secretary of the institute. Maybe it's better to immediately link the IPN to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice? But can Minister Ziobro do it? He's got enough to do. Why didn't the criminal prosecution committee against the Polish Nationals be excluded from the IPN structures and attached to the powers of the prosecutor? This inconsistency will in future lead to many tensions on the IPN line - the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice. In addition, will the Minister of Prosecutor bear the burden of so many functions at the highest level? I have a lot of concerns about this. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the real reason for the liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom and the acquisition of its tasks by the IPN? After all, the tasks of the council are much broader, not limited to the search for victims of totalitarianism. In addition, the Council is working on commemorating historical events, places and figures in Poland and abroad. So you can't talk about doubling the Board's tasks with IPN tasks. What will happen to the memory sites of the dissections under the guidance of the council? This project involves many omissions. The project of the digital IPN archive is underfunded and ignored, which is why the Modern Club proposes that you consider setting up an office for digitization of collections closely related to the IPN archive. What instruments will the IPN use to prosecute historical abuses committed by foreign journalists and politicians? Will they receive a BOLO or a ban on entry into Poland? The proposed amendment does not provide for research into victims of national freedom fights, which the Security Council is looking for. Searching for victims of national Liberation Fights [[♪ The bell ♪]] is not a statutory IPN function, so where will the funds for this research come from? There is much evidence that you are creating a super-institution with a huge influence on the shaping of the state's historical policy. It's a huge responsibility. We're afraid it'll just be yours and yours a comfortable story. We can't let that happen. I ask applicants to take into account our proposals for amendments. Otherwise, we're going to have a terrible change that will have a big impact on the discovery of history cards and will only lead to politicization...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u263	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u264	...another important institution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u265	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After a thorough analysis of the content of the two projects it becomes clear that the aim of the authors is primarily to reduce the independence and professional functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance. The good change continues and destroys another element of the democratic rule of law built for 27 years. I'm gonna go over the project details. The Act amends the rules for the election of the President, which will be elected by a simple majority by the Sejm with the consent of the Senate, after obtaining only the opinion of the College of IPN, which is not binding. Attention should be paid to the coincidence of dates, of course, by chance. On 24 March the IPN Council announced a competition for the new President and on 30 March the Sejm took up a project amending the rules governing the selection of the Institute's authorities. In accordance with the rules in force, the IPN Council had to draw up a competition, but due to a highly likely change in the legal status of the contest will be cancelled. The question arises: Does the PiS hurriedly want to push the amendment of the bill just to make sure that the candidate indicated by the PiS wins? What's the new presidential election mechanism supposed to look like? It's very simple for the ruling party. The candidate shall report a group of 115 Members, appoint him to the Sejm with the consent of the Senate, after consulting the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. We know who has the majority in the Seym, the majority in the Senate, but there is a matter of college, or actually its composition. It should be clarified: the new college is to be composed of two representatives appointed by the President, five appointed by the Sejm, two appointed by the Senate - i.e. by the PiS. It is therefore clear that the whole process of appointment of the President of the IPN belongs to the governing party - from the moment of the application, by consent and opinion. It is unusual that you want to politicize the functioning of an institution so important for researching Polish history and disseminating knowledge about it. The liquidation of the public competition for the position of President of the IPN and the stripping of the academic environment and legal professions influence on the composition of the College of IPN are clearly negative. The Polish People's Party does not agree to this kind of depropriation of the State. PiS wants a monopoly on historical memory. Another moment and all history books will have to have a stamp from Nowogrodzka so that they can be released. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Sure, sure. Oh, Jesus, how smart!]] It should also be stressed that the proposals of the PiS were criticised not only by politicians so-called. a worse sort, but also by the IPN Council. According to its members, the Act restricts the independence of the IPN from the authorities, because instead of a public competition for the position of President, it will be appointed by politicians. The academic, judicial and prosecutorial environments will be deprived of influence on the composition of the College of IPN. Clearly, this is not just an opinion of politicians. The changes, as Marshal Terlecki explains, aim to stimulate the activities of the IPN so that the institute becomes an institution of universal respect. The facts are different. As long as in 2010, and thus at the end of the previous President's reign, confidence in the IPN was declared by CBOS 51% according to a study It was 62% this year. At the same time, the percentage of respondents declaring a lack of confidence in IPN decreased from 28% to 15%. Those are the facts. A clear change is the expansion of the activities of the IPN - seven verticals instead of four - the breakdown of the scientific and educational track, at least several hundred additional employees and several dozen managerial positions. Staff changes, of course, for trusted people. An extremely important change concerns the Institute's archival resources. The novel provides for the elimination of an isolated set of reserved files in the archive. The files stored in it would be analysed in agreement with the head of the MON. The proposed solution cannot remain without an ongoing evaluation of the Institute's activities. There's been a media storm recently associated with the publication of a file from General Kiszczak's house. We find it difficult to judge what the Polish public space might look like when all materials are uncontrolledly collected for decades in the services of the Polish People's Republic. Will it be another Polish-Polish war? In addition, the parliamentary project concerns changes in the organisation of IPN in the field of research and education functions, regulation of research work by the IPN concerning people who have lost their lives due to the fight against the imposed totalitarian system or due to repression or ethnic cleansing in the period from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990. The application, High Izbo, in the Polish legislation of date from the history of Soviet Russia, is highly reprehensible and serves the bolszewalization of national history. What's the idea? My doubts are raised by the proposal to include the Council for the Protection of Martyrdom and Fighting Memory in the IPN structure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the opinion of many experts, this threatens to create inefficient structures. All the risks of this project cannot be discussed in such a short period of time. I must stress once again that these projects clearly violate the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I submit a proposal to reject the project after first reading. Violating the independence of another public institution is another element of a good change...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u267	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u268	...in Poland, which must be met with strong opposition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u269	Let's get to the questions. Please, if any of you want to sign up again. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Please don't exceed the time. [[Voice from the room: There were always two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to say that November 8th is not the date of Russia's history. November 7th - yes, but not November 8th. So that when it comes to censorship, I think that this is a completely justified date. On the other hand, Mrs Różecka... Unfortunately, you have to say: but. The amendments proposed in the amendment to the Act are even in the right direction, but there is a number of regulations missing, which would significantly strengthen and improve this law. Let's start with the simplest case. Why are IPN employees treated by the legislator as involuntary food discount workers who are prevented from establishing trade unions in their civil rights? The paradox is that discount workers are allowed by law and IPN employees are not. Next line. Why haven't regulations been introduced to facilitate the making available of documents contained in the IPN collections? Why has no such regulation been introduced, even with regard to the abolition of the need for recommendations or certification in the use of archive materials? Next line. Why is there a restricted collection? This collection does not end. It is preserved because the wording set out in the amendment of the law allows such behavior, moreover, an instrumental approach to qualifying documents for this collection. Why at least 25 years after the institution's liquidation [[♪ The bell ♪]] are the producers of documents preserved by this bizarre creation, what is the proprietary collection? We have a number of comments. We hope that what Mr Mularczyk said is that you are open to change, to refine this law, is indeed a true declaration, and not just, say, to the public. We hope that our comments will be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I read this bill, I talked to the I.P.N. staff. They pointed to a few things that could possibly be improved. The scope of the search was extended, and very well, until the beginning of the 20th century, but the question arises, what about the search and exhumations concerning the people who fought in the national uprisings in the 19th century. Maybe it is worth to include this regulation also of the 19th century or after the partition period, because the history of Poland of this period of IPN will take care of it, and then it would be clearly defined in one law who will deal with such things. Local governments have often done this so far, but not always local authorities want to do it. One of the people in front of me already asked about the base. Some relatives of victims of totalitarian crimes have already passed on their genetic data. They're in different places. So maybe it's worth making it clear where this base is going to be, and whether it's really going to be a Pomeranian university and a base that exists so far, or if we're creating a whole new one. If it's new, it's got to be a transition period for us to know what to do with it. Art. 53h and Art. 53i talk about cooperation between the President of the IPN, among others. with Polish organizations and environments. Here, due to Poles in the East, we could use the term "Polish and Polish environments." Please note that the term "polonian" in the East was misunderstood. Will it be expected with the increase in tasks [[♪ The bell ♪]] automatic serious increase in resources? And the last piece. There is a medal of the National Remembrance Site Keeper. Perhaps it would be worth pointing out clearly that such a medal can be awarded to persons with a nationality other than Polish. This applies especially to Poles who do not have Polish citizenship, and sometimes take care of Polish graves somewhere in the world, especially in the East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u273	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! IPN is a very important institution due to the course of history of Poland. As its name indicates, it is to guard the national memory. Each group should be able to propose its candidate; this should not be a privilege only for groups of more than 115 Members. The Institute must also not remain unsupervised. The supervision of the Institute should be exercised by all policy options and should only be controllable and not decision-making. The Institute is to take care of the memory of the nation and act for the nation. Let's keep our history and our heroes out of party conflicts. How will you deal with the allegations of politicising the Institute of National Remembrance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u276	Thank you, Marshal. This is for the Member representing the applicants, with whom I have shared experience, because we have actually written a law on IPN together before, which seems not to have been the worst functioning, and we have, I think, in this respect, a common acquis that is worth developing. You can commend this project for certain things. The fact that you are extending this period of research until 2017 is a matter of Undoubtedly worth emphasis. Two minutes, right? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, I'm sorry. This is a thing that he is undoubtedly commendable for. Also for historical policy, if it does not become the weapon of only one party or one environment against another. It is also worth to clarify in the law and here to increase the scope of the IPN activities, undoubtedly. There are things that can be praised for, but I fear, Mr President, that all of this can actually be such a cover in terms of the fundamental objectives of the amendment of this law, which is really a change in the way the President is elected. In fact, it's just to be able to pick President Cenckiewicz, because I'm afraid that's your main motivation. Under the current Cenckiewicz Act, you will not choose because no serious scientific institute, no serious institution, no university or any historical department will make recommendations. It's something that's very disturbing. It is important that you do not lead - by such people as Mr Cenckiewicz - to such a state, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that most of the population will turn away from this good change around the IPN. I am following the Member and the parliamentary majority against this, because the IPN is not yours. The IPN is all of us. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Let's pick a Wałęsa.]] [[Let's choose the future.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's pick Tusk.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u277	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The justification for the proposed amendment begins with the statement that it mainly concerns changes in the search for resting places of persons who have lost their lives as a result of the fight against the imposed totalitarian system. However, the most serious changes made by this law consist in the liquidation of the public competition for the position of President of the IPN, as well as the replacement of the IPN Council with a new creation, i.e. a college, also chosen by the Sejm. The choice and composition of the college will no longer be influenced by the academic community. The President of the IPN will also be elected by the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! Are we again trying to limit the independence of the state institution? PiS has already filled its people, often families, wives, party colleagues and friends, the most important offices, institutions and companies. So I ask: When will the political ownership of state structures by the Law and Justice end? When will the politicians of this party notice that they are creating a totalitarian state from Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u279	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Reading the bill and listening to the justification that the applicant spoke of today, at least in large parts, cannot be resisted by the impression that we are dealing with another, in quotes, good change proposed by the Law and Justice. This time the Institute of National Remembrance falls as another very important institution for you. The new rules for the election of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, i.e. by a simple majority by the Sejm, lead to such proposals. There is no need for any political compromise here, it is the Law and Justice that will elect its President. It is the same with the liquidation of the board of the institute and the replacement of the board of the college, which, I will remind you, will also be elected by the Sejm, the Senate, the President - nine people - so they will also be people with political keys. The second thing I would like to point out is what you were talking about: changing the mode, how to exhume. From now on, exhumations are to be carried out in accordance with the criminal procedure. You also said that these very often nameless heroes were buried in pits that were later made of graves where ordinary people found resting places. So far it has been done so that exhumation of the remains of the murdered persons was carried out at that time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When the burial site was found for the people who were buried in those places, in those graves that were later created. The criminal procedure will undoubtedly speed this up, but aren't you afraid that this will destroy a kind of good social climate to carry out these exhumations? I will remind you that it is very often several dozens, several hundred graves, not only in Warsaw...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u281	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u282	...but also in other places. I have the impression that the Institute of National Remembrance handled this very well: many nameless and nameless heroes were buried and their remains were found. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Do the authors of the project not fear that after the acquisition by the Institute of National Remembrance of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom, there will be piers that cannot be managed efficiently, as the employees of the Institute draw attention to? How do applicants imagine the process of making available all files in the proprietary resources of IPN? Will it look like a recent TV show with the markings of a public lynching? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u285	Thank you. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Honourable Members of the Applicant and the Rapporteurs! The history of the nation is kept in his memory. So I feel that we should also think about how to refresh this memory and how to cultivate it. The aspect of the introduction into the scope of the IPN's educational tasks resulting from this seems to be extremely important. History must be lived, identified, and interiorized. Therefore, the question which I would like to address to the Member of the applicant is the question whether the recordings and organisational changes themselves are sufficient to ensure that at least three elements of the IPN are also necessary with this interiorisation of the memory of the nation, namely the recognition by the State of the importance of this aspect of cultivating the memory of the nation and the indication of desirable patterns. It seems to me that this is also about what the rapporteur said and what is extremely important: the relativisation of history. [[Rapporteur.]] And if one of you, honourable Members, says that it is necessary to rewrite history, treating it as a charge, then I will say: Yes, it is necessary to rewrite history - an objective story based on facts that have been forgotten, misplaced and perhaps erased from history. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u287	Thank you. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u288	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We remember - I also remember very well - how many problems were created by Prof. Krzysztof Szwagrzyk's team during the exhumation of our heroes murdered in the 40s and 50s on the so-called. Connectors. Nobody later understood why you could once and then you couldn't. You should've done that. In the current legal order - as far as I know - you cannot move the graves of people buried on the graves of our heroes without the consent of their families, and due to the number of relatives it is impossible according to the IPN. Therefore, I ask: Is it true that this law on the amendment of the National Remembrance Institute will allow such painful matters to be settled? They're not gonna happen anymore, are they? Will this act simply help, and will it make things easier? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u289	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u290	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each of us is connected with a region and environment that were there during World War II, not only those affected. On this point, I would like to ask the Minister a question about the changes we are making and which are right. On behalf of the displaced people, I wanted to raise a point in connection with today's debate on the expulsion of Poles from Gdynia during the Second World War. Since December 2000, this issue has been investigated. Unfortunately, to this day it has not been solved. No reports were submitted or informed at which stage the investigation stopped. I ask you to take the subject so that the IPN can take action to bring an ongoing case to an end for 16 years. Moreover, most of the displaced people left this world and further extension of the subject could lead to a complete absence of witnesses of those events, which would significantly impede the resolution of the investigation. In addition, let us add that the Gdańsk branch of IPN has tended to reject the issue of the expulsion of Poles from Gdynia after the Second World War, referring to the law of President Mościcki from 1927, which did not matter at this point. After 1945, the authorities worked under the dictation of the Soviet occupier and thus destroyed intelligence, people connected with industry, trade, who wanted to restore the city to normal development with their initiative. The environment is asking us to look into this, because these people are getting less and less. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question about education: Will the level of education in the IPN be like an eye in the head? Because we know - from the point of view of the school principal - how important it is to involve the employees of the IPN in the educational role and to talk to students, especially...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u291	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u292	...this applies to those times when we've had less and less history. There are so many requests to contact your employees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is of course extremely important to create genetic bases to identify the remains of heroes who have become victims of the criminal communist system. Nevertheless - here I will actually repeat the question, but I was also going to ask it earlier - it is more important to get to these remains and, for example, to the so-called. Links, the possibility of discovering these graves, the victims buried there, on which there are graves of people later buried, very often also their executioners. I would like to know if the bill will also be in order and give us a chance to reach the remains of the victims of the communist system. This question concerns both the Links and the later period, such as those disappearing on the coast of the graves of the victims of December 70. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to those who forgot about it, I would like to remind you that since the Institute of National Remembrance has been in place, almost every year by reducing the resources for its operation in budgets, the chances of its substantive activity have been reduced. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u295	Thank you. Mr Antoni Man, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Requestor! In your speech, you put the main emphasis on this function of this bill, which consists in dealing with the creation of historical policy, but you must note that you do not have a monopoly on creating historical policy and taking care of this historical policy. That's the job. All of us, and we really don't feel any worse patriots than the representatives of the PiS, and we cared and cared about that, too. On the other hand, with such a big... Here it is clear that this law is re-evaluated in this direction, if you read the whole draft law, but you forget some of the issues that belonged to the tasks of the IPN, and I think you could lean on these matters. The Kukiz representative15 spoke about the possibility of reforming the structure so that it corresponds to the administrative division. There is a problem of prosecutors in the field of investigation, there is a problem with a large number of illustrative statements - that's also what the IPN is dealing with, because when you start creating this historical policy so much, you might forget the fundamental historical value of truth. I don't think I'd want this political creation to be above the values that [[♪ The bell ♪]] in history they are the most appropriate ones, so we also place such emphasis on the participation of academic communities in the process of identifying IPN bodies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u297	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the Institute of National Remembrance is needed by the Republic of Poland, is not subject to any discussion and there is no doubt. On the other hand, the fact that the Law and Justice seem to want to take over the Institute of National Remembrance raises doubts and discussions. [[That's all he thinks.]] Hence my two questions. The first is this: Why do you want to replace the Council of the Institute of National Remembrance, which has so far been composed of representatives of scientific communities with enormous trust and social authority, with their officials, which you will of course have complete and complete control over? Second question: On what basis did the applicants set the starting date of the cases to be dealt with by the Institute of National Remembrance on 8 November 1917? Why not before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u299	Thank you. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u300	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The authors of the proposed IPN Act adopted, as I said during the club's performance, a strange cezura, establishing it on 8 November 1917. In fact, she separates the memory of the soldiers from Monte by a thick line. Cassino from, for example, legionaries Józef Piłsudski, whose graves are in the East, because under the act of this law the care of these cemeteries is no longer valid. Maybe it is worth accepting the proposal of the Polish People's Party to set this date for 1772, the first partition of Poland? Then we could certainly also take care of the graves of participants in national uprisings, national permits, from insurrection to January uprising. Another question: What about the graves of the soldiers who died during World War I? What about cemeteries that are located in the former Polish territories and will not be covered by the law using the accepted cezury? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u301	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Pieta, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland must be cleansed of the remnants of communism. [[Scumbags.]] Poland must be freed from the influence of public and secret co-workers of the communist regime. Poland must celebrate its heroes - cursed soldiers and all those who faithfully followed the idea of independence. I have a question for the applicant: Does this legislative space, which is covered by the proposal, allow us to return to the discussion of the illustrative procedure that we have already worked on in this House? I am referring to the resignation from the illustrative statements and the return to the solution, which consists in obtaining by the candidate an important function or the position of the state certificate from the Institute of National Remembrance. We can see how terrible the process of verifying lies in the narrative is. [[There's too many of them.]] It's time to put an end to this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u303	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for the questions raised in these questions. I'll try to find out which ones are most important, most important, to answer. Your main concern, primarily opposition, Platform club, Kukiz, PSL, is the concern about politicalisation of IPN due to the election of the President. I want to be clear. Law and Justice do not stand in the position that this choice must be in the manner that is claimed. We can think about changing the mode, about the contest. But here's the appeal to the president. Mr. President, we all want to make sure that there is no such thing as a conflict of interest between the council and the president of the IPN. I would ask you to disclose in the coming days, for example by the end of the week all the agreements you have concluded with the members of the Council during this term of office, together with the amounts for which they have been concluded. This will allow us to assess whether the way the Council and the President operate was a way that has no doubt about the conflict of interest. Ladies and gentlemen, were those provisions which allowed the possibility of hiring board members for remuneration de facto not creating such a closed environmental system where the handle washes? [[Then change it.]] And we're changing that. From this term of office there will be no possibility of hiring college members for a contract, Mr. President. You're gonna have to expose it because that's what we're asking you today. If you say, you think there should be a competition, well, we will consider the competition and we are ready for such talks, but here the competition must be clear, the best candidates will actually be chosen. I want to be clear. In my opinion, there were very unfair and bad words to Professor Cenckiewicz. What do you have to accuse Professor Cenckiewicz of? [[He's not a professor.]] In my opinion, it is not nice to speak in such a way about a person who has no defence, Mr Sławomir. [[Applause]] [[But we're different.]] You guys are different, okay? [[Ad vocem. I don't know if the name allows ad vocem.]] So, during the committee's work, of course, we will think whether there is a possibility, what are the prospects, the chances of really going back to the competition, but we would like to get this information before we decide to return to the competition. Ladies and gentlemen! There were many important questions about whether this new procedure would speed up and facilitate the process of exhumation of solid soldiers and victims of totalitarianism. We believe that these procedures, which are currently under way, actually exhumation procedures based on the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, place descendants of cursed or steadfast soldiers in a worse situation, right? They were murdered, buried, cemeteries were created at their burial site, and their families must be within the framework of the c.p.a. to appeal, often to the courts, to commemorate them, to worship them, to have a place where they will bury them. Therefore, we believe that the creation of criminal procedures, i.e. exhumation based on the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, while the investigation by the IPN into the search for persons suspected of committing these crimes, will be a much better solution. And here I would like to thank you for helping me build these regulations for Mrs Annie Szeląg from the Link Foundation, who actively supports us in creating these solutions. I would like to remind and draw attention, in particular to colleagues from the Platform and PSL, to what happened 5 years ago. I would like to remind you that this Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, which was in force before Janusz Kurtyka's death, regulated the election of the President in such a way that the Sejm appointed the President of the National Remembrance by an absolute majority. And this country, the Platform and the PSL, made a change to the bill, first reducing the number of votes needed for the election of the president, in order to say so, to prevent the choice of the dead. Janusz Kurtyka for a second term, and when the Smoleńsk disaster occurred, you introduced a system of election of electors and election of presidents by academic communities. [[Preliminary selection.]] We don't think it's a proper process, personally, because the IPN is not a corporate institution of historians. This is not an institution dedicated to history professors. [[But the predecessors were chosen as well.]] I have a question, Mr Antoni. I value your opposition background. You are not a professor of history, but I believe that you could sit in the College of IPN or in the Council of IPN, like Mr Andrzej Star or Krzysztof Wyszkowski, who do not have professorship titles. But don't they have the competence to be members of the IPN Council or the IPN College? They do. For example, the history professor - I am abstracting at this point from a particular person, because I don't mean anyone here - who, in times, say, the communist state was a communist singer, would be a better candidate for chief, say, a member of the council or college than Antoni the Man? I don't think so. [[But you'll report the Man?]] A professor's or a doctor's degree certainly doesn't give any reason to believe someone's better qualified. As far as the genetic basis is concerned, I would like to point out that the current solutions that govern this issue should be regulated in our view, because at the moment this base functions de facto, but operates in Szczecin, in the Szczecin Medical University, not on the basis of statutory solutions, the National Remembrance Institute Act, but on the basis of a contract and agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, do we want one of the universities to run the base by this method? We want to settle this. [[But no one's questioning it.]] And to be clear, Mr Nitras, I am addressing Mr Nitras, no one is questioning the achievements, the achievements of the University of Szczecin. We just want these regulations to be included in the National Remembrance Institute Act. And the new president of the Institute of Memory will make the right decisions whether it will serve the university in Szczecin, or maybe a consortium, or more universities, or medical academys that have such powers and competences. But there's only one thing I want to say, because it's very interesting to me too. How is it that on 23 November 2015, just after the elections, the Institute of National Remembrance concludes an agreement on a consortium where it introduces further universities into this type of activity? In my opinion, time coincidence here in some way casts doubt on this whole situation. This law certainly is not going to prohibit something from the University of Szczecin, but it is going to regulate that the public body owns the base so that the public authority has all the information about the genetic database. This is certainly not an assassination attempt on the Szczecin Medical Academy, Mr Szczecin. [[Voice from the hall: University.]] University of Szczecin. As far as issues are concerned - it was from several parliamentarians - the functioning of the Institute of National Remembrance, the main commission for the prosecution of crimes, it is true that this case requires a review, because the situations that occurred in connection with the disclosure of the Lech Wałęsa file by Czesław Kiszczak's wife, show that this whole system of mirrors, which was created many years ago, is a faulty system, since the person to whom it is informed that she has cooperated for many years, receives a judgment from the court that she is not a mirror liar. What's more, the Institute of National Remembrance gives her a statement that she's a victim. [[Isn't he victimized?]] And in the context of the fact that information is being disclosed about her being a secret co-worker for six years, she was collecting funding for her cooperation, the whole system that was created is a fictional system. He's creating fiction. Judgments that are handed down create a fictional situation. And it needs to be changed. [[There are no convictions.]] That is why we should return to discussing, of course, the return to this 2007 law when, indeed, all parliamentary clubs, with the exception of the Democratic Left Alliance, supported the initiative of wide opening the archives. But here and now let's create a good project, make a good bill that will give the new president, the new college and the Institute of National Remembrance the competence to create a good historical policy. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, once again, I am open to discussion during committee work. I look forward to a constructive discussion, I look forward to your initiatives, and of course I invite all Members to work in committee on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u305	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Nitras as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u306	Mr. Marshal, there's actually two things to correct. First thing - the medical academy or the medical university in Szczecin. Mr President, you misunderstood me. I'm not saying it's wrong that you put a base in the bill. It is very good that you regulate it in the bill, only my proposal - and we will raise it in the work - that this base, Mr Szczecin, should be in Szczecin, and not that if the new president comes, he will move it elsewhere, and when the next president comes, he will move it elsewhere. Let her be an IPN, but let her be in Szczecin. And the second thing - the question of Mr. Habilitated Doctor, not Professor Cenckiewicz. Yes, me and I think that not only me, not only in this room, but in Poland there are many people who do not imagine that the president of the Institute of National Remembrance was Dr. Cenckiewicz, Dr. Hab. Cenckiewicz. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But others imagine.]] This is my... Not because I question his scientific title, but I question his way of assessing the historical documents that are there, the one-dimensional vision of people he doesn't like, which are not from your political formation, and the glorifying of those who are from your political formation. This isn't just about Lech Wałęsa. This is about someone who even allowed herself to insult Mrs. Danuta Wałęsowa, whom even Mr. Cenckiewicz... Or else: apart from Mr Cenckiewicz, no one was able to offend her or accuse her in any way, and he accused her of lack of culture, rudeness - from memory I quote his publications in one of the so-called. Right-wing newspapers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not the person who can lead the Institute of National Remembrance. And faked all this discussion about increasing the role, caring about the IPN...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u307	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u308	...is because you really want Cenckiewicz to be president. And that's what separates us. [[Applause]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Wałęsa can also be judged.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u309	The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the projects contained in prints 333 and 334 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the National Defence Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory (prints No 295 and 358). I would like to ask Mr Arthur Soboń to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the law on the rules of residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. At its 14th meeting on 17 March, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the National Defence Commission for consideration. Following a discussion between the members of the committee, the Commission asks that the draft law be adopted without amending the draft. The project is a fulfillment of the moment at which Poland may be threatened and will not yet be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the article. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, that is, the moment when there will be formally peace, but security Poland may be in danger. This is the expectation of our allies, these are the commitments on the speed of response so-called. NATO's pointers, high-ready troops. In order for this mechanism to be carried out in an efficient manner, there must be clear mechanisms that regulate this matter within the Polish State. And here this proposal is clear. The President of the Republic will determine the principles and purpose of the stay of these troops, giving them the powers which the Armed Forces have in the territory of the Republic of Poland, the Polish Armed Forces. Of course, this is due to a situation in which the security of Poland is dramatically deteriorating, we are dealing with a situation of war, which we can call war the so-called war. Green men, hybrid war, sublime war. Today we do not know what methods of aggression may be used, which will not formally allow the state to be regarded as a state which is war, but will require action together with our allies. Poland is a sovereign country, an independent country. Therefore, this change has an external dimension to our friends and to our enemies. In front of their friends, allowing them to know, reacting, that Poland in a sovereign way is about the head of state, decided to cooperate with the troops of our allies, and to our enemies allows us to build the position of Poland, which will allow us through the fact of the possibility of military mobilization by the Polish Armed Forces and e.g. NATO armed forces deter or discourage our opponent from taking further such actions. Of course, this does not mean automation, because this mechanism is always regulated by the cooperation of the Minister of Defence, which the President of the Council of Ministers proposes to the President. In its decision, the President gives his consent, sets out the purpose and powers. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present your report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u311	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present the position of my club in relation to the report on the work of the Committee on National Defence on the Government bill amending the law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. During the committee's work, no substantive amendments were made to the draft law in any way amending the Government's submission, while three amendments of a typical editorial nature and one resulting from the previous provisions were made at the request of the Legislative Office. All amendments were unanimously accepted by representatives of both Law and Justice and the opposition option. It can therefore be said that the act in question was such that it was adopted unanimously. I would like to stress once again on behalf of the club that we consider the proposed project necessary. The proposed rules provide a clear legal basis for the President of the Republic of Poland's consent - at the request of the Minister of National Defence, led with the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers - to stay alien allies in Poland during peacetime. Such actions are intended to strengthen the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland in military operations carried out in our territory, when it is not possible to apply art. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. It is also worth noting the proposal to shorten the procedure and the time to agree to the stay of alien allies in our country. The avoidance of a collegial body such as the Sejm, the Senate, the government, allows such a procedure to be carried out very smoothly, while ensuring the decision-making of the highest state factors in the form of the President of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of National Defence. Such a solution will reduce to a minimum the waiting time for ally troops to react, and nowadays every hour is important, but it allows the opponent to prepare for better impact. It should also be mentioned that this submission will apply to the situation already mentioned by the rapporteur so-called. hybrid war, otherwise called subliminal, or conflict considered to be an internal dispute within a single country, but so de facto they are caused or fueled by another country. This is the situation we are dealing with in Ukraine at the moment. This is an increasingly used type of conflict and legal solutions need to be found that will allow an effective response to this situation. And this is what this amendment of the Act on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory is intended for. To sum up, the High Izbo Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports in full the government's submission together with the editorial amendments tabled at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u313	Thank you. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, my fellow Members! Mrs. Member! There are projects that connect the opposition with the coalition. This is also the case in this case, and the rapporteur pointed out this. The assumptions or assumptions were developed by the previous government. And this, and the previous government thinks that this is a legitimate action, such a law is needed. Increasing the security of the Republic is undoubtedly our responsibility and responsibility of the Polish state, our responsibility as Members. The guarantee of Polish security is both the North Atlantic Alliance, the European Union and its own Armed Forces, plus of course integrated cooperation with countries that are members of either the North Atlantic Alliance or the European Union. This act includes fuses, or actually a fuse, which is the strongest of all, when both the commander of the Armed Forces, the President of the Republic of Poland, and the Minister of Defence, as one who exercises these powers on behalf of the President, participates in the issuing of the relevant decision, and the Prime Minister, who is the head of the government, so this is the strongest possible mechanism and should be commended. Every soldier who is on our land is not a Polish soldier, his legitimacy must be clear, also the rules of his presence in the Republic must be clear, but Minister, I have the impression that the biggest problem at the moment is not this law, she is good and she must be commended and must be voted for, but the problem at the moment is our international credibility. Today, this credibility is embodied by the Minister of National Defence, or Minister Antoni Macierewicz. After his recent speeches, which so often appear in the public debate, when he talks about terrorist attacks, attacks or electromagnetic weapons, it is actually possible to change those statements, this credibility, which seemed unlikely, has yet to be weakened. Honestly, I'd like you to be the Minister of Defense and represent the Polish business, but I understand that this is a sovereign decision of your government. Today, above all, we must appear as a strong and confident partner, and unfortunately, the Minister of National Defence, Minister of Foreign Affairs, is not helping to build this image. And we can quickly review our external relations, because the USA - bad, democracy in the United States - bad, Merkel - bad, Tusk - bad, Venice - bad, West - bad, Hollande - bad, Schulz - bad, Orbán - good. [[The bill is good.]] And the bill - good. That's what it looks like. Today, the president of our country, the commander of the Armed Forces, in the United States, had to answer questions about the Constitutional Tribunal and what is happening in Poland. Foreign policy is building alliances and relationships, and the power of the PiS is doing exactly the opposite: destroying alliances, insulting partners. And it would still be appropriate to ask the question: Is this how Polish security is to be built? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u315	Thank you. Mrs Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the Act amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory. This is the second reading of this bill, so let me just briefly recall the basic assumptions. This amendment concerns the creation of a legal basis enabling foreign troops to carry out military operations in the territory of the Republic of Poland also during peacetime. The President of the Republic of Poland is to agree to this at the request of the Minister of National Defence, led with the prior consent of the President of the Council of Ministers. In agreement with the President of the Republic of Poland, it is proposed to indicate the purpose of the stay and the scope of the powers, as well as other circumstances relevant to the defence of the Republic of Poland. The need to amend the current law is motivated by a deterioration of the security situation in our region. Yes, it is true that we are currently seeing a significant reduction in safety in the international environment, both in our region and worldwide. However, is changing our internal legal procedures in such a way that, as a Polish country, we can cry out faster: help? I would like to remind once again the words of Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, the promoter of Polish accession to NATO. He has often stressed that Poland can only count on helping its allies if it wants and can defend itself if it has its own ability to deter the attacker. The role of allied support is certainly important and must be taken into account in the construction of the security of Poland, but certainly cannot be considered as its basis. The commonly accepted safety criterion is its own defence potential. Yes, only its own defence potential, combined with allies, is able to ensure effective deterrent of the potential attacker, and Poland in its history has experienced many times very painfully, which leads to the dependence of our country's security on allied aid. We would therefore like to stress very clearly: we do not agree to give our own security completely to allies. It is difficult to expect that when we are deprived of our own defence capabilities, allies will come to our aid and defend our own country for us. As a Kukiz club15, we would like this House to have a debate today about the reconstruction of the Polish Armed Forces, about the need to rebuild operational troops, especially in the east, that we need to create territorial defences. A territorial defence, i.e. troops made up of soldiers of citizens who train where they live, who fight where they live, and defend their families, homes, cities and villages, and, of course, also cooperate with operational troops if necessary. We would prefer to discuss the introduction of universal defence education in our schools. We would like to talk about the fact that the right to own arms should be disseminated and that citizens should also be allowed to use this weapon in self-defense in a situation of danger, because unfortunately there is also a problem in Poland. Instead, we are discussing what to do so that Poland will cry out more quickly: help. As a Kukiz club15, we fear that the bill will preserve the false sense of security of our nation, and the truth is that if Poland does not have the defensive capacity to ensure its own safety, to create the conditions for possible acceptance of NATO support forces, if so, Poland cannot count on any allied assistance. Therefore, there will be no discipline in this matter in our club. The implementation of this law will contribute to improving the national security of Poland only in an illusory manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In expressing the position of the club Moderna, I would like to inform you that we are in favour of the proposed bill amending the law on the rules of residence of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. It is high time we sanction such an important issue for the defence of our country's territory, especially since the situation in Central and Eastern Europe is still uncertain. As you know, all rights and obligations are based on a legal standard. It will be a warning instrument against a potential opponent that, in the event of an attack by NATO and the European Union, they will have no restraint to counterattack their entire military base. From now on, it will be the President of the Republic of Poland who will approve, at the request of the Minister for National Defence, the presence of foreign troops, in particular NATO Member States, the European Union, with the Prime Minister's consent. It is the President who will determine the purpose and scope within which foreign troops will operate in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It is worth noting that these troops will be able to function as a rule like the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. To sum up, this is a very good change and the Modern Club will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u319	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law introduced a clear legal basis on which foreign troops will be able to conduct military operations other than exercises during peace in Poland. In practice, they will be able to support our country if it is necessary to take preventive, dissuasive or requiring the use of high readiness forces in Polish territory or in the airspace of our country. The President of the Republic of Poland, at the request of the Minister of National Defence, after obtaining the consent of the President of the Council of Ministers, is to consent to the stay in Poland of foreign troops, mainly NATO and the European Union, as part of the strengthening of the military forces of the Polish Armed Forces in military operations conducted in our country during the time of peace. In accordance with the President's stated purpose of residence and the scope of foreign military powers, and other circumstances relevant to Poland's defence are to be indicated. It was assumed that foreign troops would be able to have the powers granted to them by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. The narrowing of the record to the time of peace is due to the fact that during the war the ability of allied troops to use force in Poland is regulated by art. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. The introduction of these regulations is necessary due to the deteriorating security situation in the vicinity of Poland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. A changing geopolitical situation may force actions requiring immediate support of the Polish Armed Forces by NATO foreign troops, in a situation where there would not yet be grounds for launching actions under Article. 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty. This new regulation will be of great external and internal importance. In the external dimension it shows potential aggressors that in Polish law there are no barriers to the use of NATO or European Union troops in Poland. This should deter and discourage potential opponents from taking military action in Poland, since there may be a military response from the international community at any time. As far as the internal dimension is concerned, States sending their troops to Poland within NATO or the European Union will be sure to legitimize their activities in our country. The revised Act will ensure the effective implementation in Poland of the preparedness action plan, which allows military operations to be carried out by high readiness forces. It is about the possibility of using rapid response forces capable of responding within 48/72 hours, which requires clear and precise procedures to be introduced into national law, which does not raise doubts about interpretation. The new regulations are to apply after 14 days from the date of publication in the Official Journal. The Polish People's Party fully supports this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u321	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Please don't exceed the time. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. In that case, I would like to ask Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have just heard in the debate that NATO could come to us within a few days. I've been reading in-depth analysis again, and there's a speech there. It's been a couple of weeks. So I would like to ask - if we are talking about such an important law, a much-needed, very right - what is our real knowledge, at what specific time a NATO point can come to Poland if we need such help? And the second question, about the next major forces, the military components that could come to us to help us. ♪ In what time ♪ Would they come to Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u324	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This law is undoubtedly important, necessary, but let me ask you a few questions. Will the possibility of giving troops of a foreign country the powers of the armed forces of the Republic of Poland not lead to conflicts against the command and correctness of targets in the case of military operations? Who will be liable for damages in the event of damage caused by foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland? Who will be in the event that the troops of a foreign country are given the same powers as those of the Polish Armed Forces, formally command such units? Who will bear the cost of living and staying in a foreign state? What are the rules for granting permission to stay in a foreign state? Finally, on 12 March 1999, when we joined NATO, the Alliance States guaranteed that nuclear weapons and a significant amount of equipment and soldiers would never be deployed on our territory. Has anything changed with regard to these arrangements? I am referring in particular to the statements made by Minister Macierewicz regarding Poland's access to nuclear weapons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u325	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Bartosz Kownacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by referring to speeches on behalf of parliamentary clubs, particularly to Mr Tomczyk's speech, which, I think, unnecessarily, started a discussion not on the strict law, but on Minister Macierewicz. I have repeatedly appealed from this speaker - and I thank our opponents, who understand the seriousness of the matter - not to engage in political disputes in situations where laws are to bring us together, which are to show our common position, all parliamentarians, all politicians, on matters that are crucial to the security of the state. And I can only say this: most often these politicians, who decide, are determined to make big, sometimes drastic changes, cause great fear and great anxiety, including the media. He's still with Minister Macierewicz. The fact that he is one of the most pro-American politicians bears witness to his entire political career. If anyone had the opportunity to talk to Minister Macierewicz, he knows that he is one of the most pro-American politicians in Poland. The facts show that. In the 1970s, when some of us were not in the world and others were not dreaming, Minister Macierewicz along with Prime Minister Jan Olszewski and Minister Naimski wrote a letter to President Carter to join Poland as a member of the North Atlantic Pact. Therefore, I think that in this discussion, in this debate with a very important law, we should not use this kind of argument because it does not serve anything. With regard to Mrs Siarkowska - I can say that we are now rebuilding the Armed Forces, and we are also creating territorial defence. There are also debates in this area - not only in the Parliament's Chamber but also in the Parliament's committees. I take it that there will be no discipline at Kukiz15 - and that would be best if there were no party discipline in such matters - but at the same time I am convinced that everyone who is at the heart of our country will vote in favour. I agree with the assessment that no alliance agreements will solve our problems, but they certainly increase our security to some extent, and I cannot imagine a policy that would vote in such an important matter against this potential opportunity, and how our allies behave, unfortunately history shows. With regard to the questions which came later, Mr Khrushch's questions, the answer is short. NATO's point reaction is 48 to 72 hours, as foreseen. This is accepted and there is no other information, although, of course, our analysis of what the NATO point is, as we could count on wider support, has been presented many times. We need to be aware of that. Let me stress once again, I agree with Mrs Sarkowska, we must be able to defend ourselves for many weeks. Then we can only count on the real help of our allies when we're partners for these allies, and they'll know they're here to protect their partner. On the other hand, with regard to Mr Kostusia's questions, it is all regulated in international agreements as regards the agreements concerning the residence of the armed forces, the costs which would be incurred. These are NATO SOFA and HNS respectively. These regulations previously concluded define ways of using, ways of financing troops or rules of staying in Poland. With regard to command - it all depends on whether it would be a NATO operation or not. It is likely that such an operation would be a NATO-Russian operation and would have a properly designated NATO-Wski commander in this area - because NATO has its procedures - which would lead the troops. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u327	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 29 hours 17 min 38]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill of ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes, signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015 (prints No 299 and 349). I ask Mr Killon Munyama to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. The Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 16 March 2016 request the High Sejm to approve the draft law contained in print No 299 without amendments. The project shouldn't be controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u329	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft Act on ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. The signing and adoption of this convention has a broader dimension than that of avoiding double taxation, because this dimension shows closer and closer relations and deepening them with the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. I'm gonna start with a little curiosity. Poland's first historical contacts with Ethiopia started in the 17th century when the war with the Ottoman Empire started. King John III Sobieski sent messengers to his neighbours, including the emperor's representatives, to Abyssinia. They were then detained. In any case, the trade relations between Poland and Ethiopia before World War II were limited, and they only gained importance in the 1950s. In the 1990s the structure of Polish exports changed. Between 2003 and 2004, trade between the two countries evened out and reached around $6 million. Every year this value increases. Today, for example, Ursus' multi-million contracts for the sale of tractors, trailers and spare parts for the transport of cane are proof of this. The agreement with Ethiopia is the 91st such agreement which Poland concludes. This is an expression of a deepening trade relationship with one of the three largest African countries. Previously, we signed such agreements with the following African countries: the Republic of South Africa, Tunisia and Zimbabwe - in 1993, Egypt - in 1996 and Morocco - in 1994. This convention will apply on the Polish side to income taxes PIT and CIT, on the Ethiopia side it is about income and profit tax and tax on mining activities, oil extraction and agriculture. The agreement accepted the principle that the profits of a single country are subject to taxation only in that country, unless the company operates in the other country through its establishment. The so-called Convention on Regulation. passive income, including dividends, interest, licence fees shall include a clause allowing the application of a reduced rate of withholding tax only if the recipient of the claim is a resident of the other State who is entitled to those amounts. As regards the taxation of profits from the transfer of property, the Convention introduces the so-called. a real estate clause. The Convention also provides that pensions should be taxed only in the country where the person receiving those benefits is resident. In addition, the Convention contains a number of provisions governing minor matters. On the occasion of the meeting of both ministers in Addis Ababa, where this convention was signed, the issue of credit cooperation was also raised, which resulted in the granting of a loan to Ethiopia under tied aid of $50 million intended to finance export of goods and services from Poland. The Convention itself was negotiated on the basis of the current model version of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Convention on Income and Property Tax of July 2010. The Convention does not raise any objections, as the rapporteur has already said, I think. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this convention and will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u332	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the Club in relation to this law relating to the conclusion of the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Ethiopia. As with other African countries, it is appropriate to sign an agreement governing mutual cooperation as regards taxation of income by strengthening economic and trade cooperation. Although trade turnover with Ethiopia represents only 0.01% Polish trade, there is an increasing trend, which, of course, serves both economies. The Convention will allow for close cooperation between the tax authorities of both countries and will facilitate the conduct of business by eliminating double the burden on income taxes for investors. Importantly, as the previous speaker mentioned, the convention was negotiated on the basis of the current OECD Model Convention. The entry into force of this Convention will not have a negative effect on the revenue of the public finance sector, on the contrary, given the fact that the Convention contains an information exchange clause, it will be an effective tool for verifying the declared tax bases of taxable persons earning income with Ethiopia, so its entry into force will have a positive impact on the level of the Treasury's budget revenue. The club shares the government's position, hopes that the entry into force of the Convention could trigger the activation of bilateral economic cooperation, among others. by increasing Polish exports. Since the conclusion of this convention on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes will be a step towards the development of bilateral tax and economic cooperation between Poland and Ethiopia, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of the bill on ratification of this convention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u333	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to recommend voting in favour of ratifying the double taxation agreement between Poland and Ethiopia. Ethiopia is the largest Christian country in Africa, a country for its achievements, a third world country, a country whose GDP per capita is still $490, but a country with more than 90 million people, a country that will soon exceed 100 million people, a country that benefits from global warming, because the countries of the sub-Saharan region are currently booming, for the time being, due to the fact that climate warming has a very good impact on the humidity of these areas and the harvest is growing every year. Countries such as Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Ethiopia, Sudan really benefit from this. Global warming is not for everyone. Ethiopia is developing at an average rate of 10 GDP growth per year, so in a dozen years... That's how China started. In the 1980s, as Deng Xiaoping came to power after Mao's government, there was also such hopeless socialism as in Ethiopia, and there was nothing in China either. There was $200 per person there, too. So? 30 years of free market rule, 30 years of rule that no matter what the cat is, it is important that he catch the mice that China has introduced - and China is today a completely different country. Ethiopia has the same chance if it introduces free market reforms if there is a law that will be respected and if it gradually moves from agriculture from the agricultural industry to the processing industry and benefits from cooperation, among other things. with developed countries such as Poland at this point, will benefit from our technical thought in the field of agriculture, this Ethiopia in several years will be able to be a completely serious trading partner. And just because today exports to Ethiopia are $30 million, and imports from Ethiopia are $6 million, doesn't mean that in 10 or several years, they won't be worth 10 times or even more, like China. Like I said, it's a country with a very large potential that we haven't seen yet, but that can show up. Africa is, in general, a continent with probably the greatest potential at the moment, perhaps more than Asia has, because it is the only continent that has no demographic problems and will not have them in the next 50 years, and Asia will soon have demographic problems, because there will be a policy of countries to reduce children in a moment and these countries will also have economic problems associated with ageing populations. As I said, thinking long-term about the economy, we should build on this, and we should already be establishing economic relations with countries with potentially large potentials such as Ethiopia today. This is a country where not all the raw materials have yet been discovered. This is a country with a lot of gold. This is a country with a natural... The country of coffee. This is a country where gas and oil resources are not fully explored, but they are probably huge. This is also a country that has transport problems because there is no access to the sea. As a result of recent wars, independence, this country has lost access to the sea and has some limitations. But, as I said, this is a country that has introduced a free market economy, there is no chance in the next 15 years of falling into the trap of average development, because it has not yet reached this development. So for the next 10, 15 years, this is a country that can grow at a rate of 10 and 15%. per year. This is our chance. If we participate so actively - here my predecessor said about this credit, thanks to which Ursus can sell his agricultural machinery - this is a jackpot. Such contacts should be developed. And as the Chinese invest prospectively in Africa, so we Christian African countries should support, we should establish economic cooperation with them as far as possible and, among other things, economic cooperation. such agreements should be the result of such cooperation. Thank you very much. Of course, the Members' Club will support the ratification of this agreement as much as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the Posel Club a modern position on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. As the applicant stated in the explanatory memorandum, Poland has not yet concluded a double taxation agreement with Ethiopia. At the same time, political convergence with this country, which should be followed, as my previous speaker said here, is connected, among others. with discussions held at the level of Heads of Government in November 2013, as well as good prospects for strengthening mutual economic and trade cooperation, justify the completion of the work on an agreement governing mutual cooperation in the field of income taxation. It should be recalled that in March 2015 the governments of the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia concluded a credit agreement worth $50 million. The agreement was concluded to promote and deepen economic cooperation between two countries: Poland and Ethiopia. The Ethiopian Government intends to use this loan money to finance projects in the modernisation of the public sector economy as well as rural development and other areas agreed by the governments of both countries. Given the reasons and prospects for cooperation with the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, the Modern Club will, of course, vote in favour of the draft ratification law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u337	Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u338	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Conventions, prints No 299 and 349. The draft law is the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. The Act would enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. This Convention deals with income tax on both natural persons and legal persons, is a negotiated version of the OECD Model Convention on Income and Property Tax. The bill confirms, is the result of closer economic and trade cooperation between countries, although for us, for Poland this trade with Ethiopia is linked to a low indicator compared to the whole Polish trade. However, Poland's trade turnover with Ethiopia in 2014 amounted to $42 million, exports of goods from Poland to Ethiopia amounted to over $36 million and imports - less than $6 million. So this is a positive trade balance of over $30 million for us. Ethiopia will be another African country with which Poland will regulate tax rules. The provisions of the Convention will apply to all legal persons and natural persons involved in bilateral relations between Poland and Ethiopia and to the authorities of the Polish tax administration obliged to apply the provisions of the Convention in Polish-Ethiopian economic relations. The Convention sets out in detail the subject-matter and thus applies to persons who are resident or established in one country or in both Contracting States to determine the taxes to which they apply. In Poland these are taxes of PIT and CIT, and in Ethiopia - tax on income and profit and tax on mining, oil and agriculture. The Convention will also apply to all new or amended taxes introduced in both countries in the meantime, as they must inform each other. The Convention contains numerous definitions that may arise in trade and economic exchanges and in mutual financial settlements, as well as rules on the settlement of taxes due in both countries. The following articles of the Convention standardize the concepts of: betting, income from immovable property, profits of enterprises, associated enterprises, international transport, dividends, interest, royalties, profits from the transfer of property, professional activities, income from employed employment, and even remuneration of directors, artists, athletes, pensions, pensions, as well as students, apprentices or researchers, so it is a wide range of dependencies. The Convention specifically standardizes the principles of avoiding double taxation both in Poland and Ethiopia and obliges both parties to exchange information with each other. It is expected that the adoption of this Convention will activate bilateral cooperation between our countries, will have a positive impact on the level of budgetary revenue and will be an effective tool for verifying income taxation in relations with Ethiopia. The draft of this Act was examined in the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and was submitted to the High House for adoption in the original version, i.e. government, of print No 299 without amendments. It's a good tax bill between Poland and Ethiopia. My club - the club of the Polish People's Party - will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u339	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the floor, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Please, Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Platform, has the floor. Time for the question - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u340	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions for the Minister because at the committee meeting I asked questions that I did not have a satisfactory answer to. Namely, with regard to double taxation agreements, we have signed such agreements with South Africa, Tunisia, Morocco, Egypt and Zimbabwe. Ethiopia is the sixth African country. There are 54 African countries in total. Cooperation between Poland and Angola is developing between Poland and Tanzania, Poland and Zambia, Poland and Mozambique. I would like to know which other countries such agreements can be signed with, because these are questions which are mainly addressed, among others. to me on issues relating to the regulation of legal aspects in relations between African countries. We know very well, as my previous speakers said, that cooperation is developing very strongly and quickly, and it would be worth standardising all legal aspects in relations with African countries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer in my question to the fact that Ethiopia may not have a particularly developed economy, but it is undoubtedly one of the more politically stable countries of the African continent. Thanks to this, it is the seat of pan-African organizations, pan-African events. In 1961 the Charter of the Organisation for African Unity was signed here and there is a prestigious Economic Commission of the United Nations for the region. Africa. Unfortunately, despite these facts Ethiopia was not identified as a strategic partner of Poland as part of the government's programme of Polish economic expansion on the Go Africa continent. Of course, this is currently linked to a low level of economic turnover between our countries, but given that there is no country covered in North East Africa This programme, and, as I have already mentioned, Ethiopia's population has a small population of 90 million and Ethiopia has a large, about 10% economic growth, and I have a question as to whether it would be worth completing the Go Africa programme just about Ethiopia - a politically stable partner and forward-looking when it comes to trade. And wouldn't it be worth raising diplomatic and economic relations to a higher level, given the high dynamics of Ethiopia's demographic and economic development? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u343	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll answer the first question briefly. As far as African countries are concerned, there are now no other countries with which Poland could sign a double taxation agreement and there is no such tax agreement. Of course, this does not mean that this possibility will not come up later, but, you can say, in a working procedure, such work on the preparation of an agreement with a particular African country does not take place and this is not the situation we are dealing with. As for the second question, if we can answer in writing... We have to check. I feel like this is the domain of the Ministry of Development... [[MFA maybe more.]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have no information, the Ministry of Finance has no information about this, so we will pass the question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and then ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u345	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of Mr Killion Munyama.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs for voting in favour of this convention, because it is extremely important for the development of cooperation. Entrepreneurs in Poland are waiting for solutions to increase their economic turnover between Poland and the African countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u347	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015 (prints No 300 and 350). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u348	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance on 16 March 2016 examined the Government's bill of ratification of the double taxation agreement signed by the Republic of Poland with the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in Colombo on 6 October 2015. The new agreement is based on the model solutions of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The joint committees request that the law be passed without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u349	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. The entry into force of this Agreement will improve the quality of the legal environment as regards the application of international tax law in relations between Poland and Sri Lanka. It should be noted that economic relations and Polish policy on double taxation agreements have changed significantly since the date of conclusion of the current agreement. The entry into force of the Agreement will have a positive impact on the State Treasury's budgetary revenue. In view of the fact that the agreement contains an information exchange clause, the agreement will be an effective tool for verifying the tax bases declared by taxpayers with income in relations with Sri Lanka. The agreement will further activate bilateral economic cooperation, in particular due to the possibility of significantly increasing Polish exports of goods. This will be an important step towards developing bilateral tax and economic cooperation between Poland and Sri Lanka. The provisions of the Agreement are not contrary to the legislation in force in Poland or to the law of the European Union. The entry into force of the agreement will not result in changes in Polish internal law. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice advocates the adoption of a governmental bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u351	Thank you. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u352	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis this governmental bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes. As already stated here, Poland has recently negotiated agreements or protocols amending double taxation agreements and preventing tax evasion as regards Asian countries by a representative of the government. The entry into force of this Agreement will improve the quality of the legal environment as regards the application of international tax law in relations between Poland and Sri Lanka. Like the previous draft law relating to Ethiopia, this agreement is based on the current version of the OECD Model Convention on Income and Property Tax and the UN Model Convention. In view of the conclusion of the information exchange clause in the agreement, the agreement will be an effective tool for verifying the tax bases declared by taxpayers with income in relations with Sri Lanka, so its entry into force will have a positive impact on the amount of the Treasury's budget income, and I hope that this will also facilitate the life of entrepreneurs, so the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, signed in Colombo on 6 October 2015, recommended by the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Ladies and gentlemen! Relations between Poland and Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation are in principle already established, as we still have an old agreement signed between Poland and Sri Lanka in 1980. However, bearing in mind how long it has been since the conclusion of this old agreement and how much the facts have changed both in Poland and Sri Lanka - it seems quite appropriate to mention here that since 1980 there has been a coup in Poland, a change in the system, and in Sri Lanka we have been dealing with a long-term civil war, which fortunately has already come to an end - it seems appropriate to sign a new agreement which will regulate relations in a comprehensive way precisely in respect of this double taxation. Which is worth mentioning, this agreement is another agreement signed by the Polish government with Asian countries. So far they have been signed, among others. agreements with Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, but, which is also worth mentioning here, with India, the direct neighbour of Sri Lanka and however second country in terms of population and potential on the Asian continent. The projector assumes that the implementation of this agreement will result in an increase in the activation and mutual economic, bilateral exchange between Poland and Sri Lanka. We also hope that this agreement will allow and facilitate the growth of Polish exports to Sri Lanka, which today is less than imports, because according to the data given in this project I am talking about, exports in 2013 amounted to around 14 billion dollars, while imports from Sri Lanka amounted to around 74 million dollars. As you can see, Sri Lanka is not a strategic economic partner of Poland, although if it goes on, it can happen soon. But one more important point is worth mentioning here. Perhaps this is a detail, but I wanted to emphasize here the content of the article with full effect. 2 (2) Four of this deal. Here I would like to quote briefly: This Agreement also applies to all income taxes of the same or substantially similar kind, which will be imposed after the date of signature of this Agreement in addition to or in place of existing taxes. In fact, I consider this provision in the contract as a kind of swallow, as a good signal, a good sign that a change in the tax system in Poland is possible, because it is certainly necessary. This may be evidenced by today's speech by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, who at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs said that over the last few years the revenues of CIT companies in Poland increased by 200%, their revenues increased by around 60%. While CIT revenues decreased by about 1/3. This is a very clear signal that the tax system in Poland, at least in terms of CIT, is inefficient, so we need to change this system, we need to change the tax system in Poland from income tax to income tax, because only such a solution will help protect us from pathology in the form of moving Polish capital abroad, often under the appearance of strange invoices, strange costs, sometimes called creative accounting. However, as regards the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation, the Kukiz Club recommends the adoption of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present my position on the Government's bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, located on the island of Ceylon, on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. This is exactly as my previous speakers said, the continuation of the agreements previously concluded, since such a double taxation avoidance agreement was already concluded in 1980. However, due to the economic and political changes that have taken place since that period, this Agreement was signed, the model of which was the OECD Model Convention and the UN Model Convention. Both model conventions are currently alternative and basic models for bilateral agreements to avoid double taxation of income and assets. Since Sri Lanka is not a member of the OECD, it prefers the solutions provided for in the UN Model Convention created as a model for developing countries when concluding double taxation agreements. The amendment of the existing agreement is primarily dictated by the need to adapt the agreement to the current economic or political conditions. The agreement, which is signed between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Government of Poland, is primarily intended to facilitate cooperation between the two countries. The entry into force of the agreement should be an incentive to improve economic relations, in particular to improve Polish exports, because thanks to imports of traditional products from Sri Lanka, mainly tea, Sri Lanka has reached a surplus in trade with Poland. Poland imports mainly tea from there, but also spices, clothing, rubber. As far as Poland is concerned, Poland mainly exports paper, cardboard, machinery, agricultural machinery, electrical engineering, steel and iron. Therefore, a transparent policy on the exchange of information after the entry into force of the Agreement will make it much easier for taxpayers to verify the declared tax bases in relation to Sri Lanka. International agreements are an effective tool, helping to combat cross-border tax fraud, and this will certainly have a positive impact on our budget. The modern agreement supports the signing of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u357	Thank you very much. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the agreement, No. 300 and No. 350. The draft law, like the previous one, is the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed in Colombo on 6 October 2015. The Act would enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. Poland currently has an agreement with Sri Lanka on the subject, signed between our countries, in Colombo on 25 April 1980. Over the past 35 years, the current agreement has substantially changed its policy on double taxation agreements and, of course, economic relations have changed significantly, so that there is currently a process of amending the protocols on existing agreements or negotiating new agreements. In the case of Asian countries, we already have updated agreements on this tax issue with India, Singapore, Malaysia and South Korea. The agreement currently proposed is based on the current OECD Model Convention on Income and Property Tax and the UN Model Convention because Sri Lanka does not belong to the OECD and prefers the UN Convention as a model for developing countries. The provisions of the agreement concern taxes in Poland, in short, PIT and CIT. In Sri Lanka it will be income tax in a broad sense. According to the previous agreement, Poland applied the so-called. the method for excluding progress from certain categories of income, in addition to the taxation of dividends, licences and interest, while the new agreement introduces a solution by applying a method of accounting proportional to all categories of income. The agreement contains a number of new solutions, including e.g. the possibility of making the so-called secondary adjustments to related companies. As a result, double taxation of the same income will be eliminated. The agreement clarifies numerous definitions, including dividends, interest, royalties or fees for technical services, and clarifies the principles of their settlement. Similarly, in the following articles, the agreement sets out detailed accounts for the proceeds of transfers of property, professional income, employed employment, remuneration of directors, artists, athletes, as well as pensions, pensions, capital pensions, salaries and benefits for teachers, academics, students and apprentices. An important issue of the new agreement is also the introduction of rules on the exchange of information in principle in any case in accordance with the need of one of the Contracting States, including the fact that it is not possible to refuse to provide information on the grounds that the latter country does not need such information for its own tax purposes. The bill was examined in the Joint Committees on Public Finance and Foreign Affairs and was submitted to the High House for adoption in Government version no. 300 without amendments. This project raises no objections, organizes tax matters of Poland and Sri Lanka. My club, the club of the Polish People's Party, will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u359	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a question? Well, thank you, then. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 30 March this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Szymon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Someone who believes that Richard Petru and his Modern have no sociocultural background and facilities, this one is erring and wrong. For someone who invented and called Petru and Modern must be an expert and lover of Witold Gombrowicz, and especially of his Ferdidurke, whose heroes, engineer Victor Younger and his daughter Zuta, a modern guest house, are faithfully replicated prototypes of the modern leader and his messenger ladies. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u361	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Theater im. Juliusz Osterwa in Gorzów Wielkopolski, the foundation and best cultural card of this city, celebrates the 70th anniversary of the uprising. One might think, " What is 70 years? It is worth remembering, however, that the city in which it is located for almost 700 years was German Landsberg and only at the beginning of 1945 it became Polish Gorzów. In 1945, after the first Polish settlers arrived in Gorzów, the Stadttheater was the survivor of the war fire, and concerts were organized first, and then amateur theatre shows in Polish, so that the inhabitants of the city could be sure that they were in Poland. On 5 January 1946 a professional theatre was inaugurated, and since 1947 the stage was called the Municipal Theatre of Lubuskie Land. Julius Osterva. The first one was performed by Józef Korzeniowski under the title "Old Bachelor." The title role was played by the first director of the Gorzów theatre Henryk Barwiński. The hunger for Polish culture and enthusiasm of actors were so great that in the first year of his activity the theater had 12 premieres and presented nearly 200 performances. He also played in neighboring towns. An important step in the history of Gorzów's theatre was to assume the role of director by Irena Byrska, who, together with her husband Tadeusz, moved the idea of Juliusz Osterwa's theatre to Gorzów in 1963 and created an ambitious repertoire away from the main cultural centres. The principle of a good band proved true, but without the stars who managed to cope with the ambitious contemporary works of Herbert, Różewicz, Czyżewski or Filipowicz. Another important stage in the history of the theater was the director Andrzej Rozhin, who put it on young actors and preferred the latest artistic directions. He left the theater at an incomparably higher artistic, attendance, organizational level than he found. At the theater they debuted in the role of directors, among others. Bogdan Cybulski and Agnieszka Holland. The theatre is fortunate for outstanding bosses, and Jan Tomaszewicz's current chief and artistic director has been doing his task excellently since 2002. He is the inventor of Gorzow's cabaret evenings, the advocate of the restoration to life of the prewar summer theatre. He contributed to raising the rank of Gorzów's theatre meetings. Today, at a time of modern technology and progress in civilization, the Gorzow theatre is still needed. It continues to strengthen our identity and the idea of civil society. It offers the possibility of contact with living, national and world culture. There's no substitute for direct, live contact between the actor and the audience. The theatre is a place that creates space without prejudice and limitations, developing our imagination and sensitivity to the surrounding reality. All former and present employees of the Theatre im. Juliusz Osterwa in Gorzów Wielkopolski very, very much thank you, especially for the difficult and extremely important mission of shaping an art sensitive viewer and deepening the need to interact with culture. I congratulate the Directorates and Actors on their achievements, and I wish them further success, excellent performances and a faithful audience and a favourable criticism. I am convinced that before the employees of the Theatre im. Juliusz Osterwa in Gorzów Wielkopolski still many such successful jubilees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u363	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Duda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On March 24, we celebrated the National Day of Life. It is a public holiday established by the Polish Sejm on 27 August 2004. As we read in the resolution, this day should become an opportunity for national reflection on the responsibility of state authorities, society and the public for protecting and building respect for human life, especially the smallest, the weakest and the helping of others. This day should also be a motive for social solidarity, an incentive for all actions to support and protect life. It is a personal satisfaction for me that this year we celebrate the National Day of Life on the eve of the launch of the 500+ family program. It is the largest prodemographic program - at the initiative of Law and Justice - in the latest history of the Republic of Poland. From the perspective of the Member of the Sejm, voting for the introduction of the 500+ family programme was the best possible way of celebrating this year's National Day of Life. It is a literal expression of social solidarity. I firmly believe that it will strengthen belief in a stable future in many Polish families, thus the decision to expand the family will be much easier for them. National Day of Life is an opportunity to build respect for human life, especially the smallest. Yeah, the smallest. No doubt they're children. Undoubtedly, they are unborn children, those in the womb. The value of their lives should not be relative. From this point on, I would like to thank the organisations and the environment in favour of life. In a special way, I would like to distinguish the Foundation from one of us, which is part of the European Federation of One of Us. It is the only Polish pro-life organization present in Brussels. The Foundation, together with its President Jakub Bałtroszewicz, monitors the legal acts that are being produced in Brussels on a daily basis with regard to the impact on national legislation on the protection of human dignity. Polish law allows children affected by Down syndrome to be deprived of their lives. Let's get this over with. Currently, there are about 90 windows of life in Poland. If parents or most often single mothers are unable to raise their children, they have a real opportunity to turn them into good hands. This is thanks to God the Polish reality. I therefore address you from this place to Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jaki: let us introduce a law preventing eugenic abortion. It is carried out in an advanced pregnancy, and it is sometimes the case that a child is born alive during pregnancy. Misdiagnosis occurs and a healthy child is born or killed. The one that will be born will often die because it is too weak to survive outside the mother's body. The Polish state should not put its hand in eugenic abortion. It is my personal desire that the Polish state should not be responsible for abortion. I appeal to future mothers and fathers. Abortion is a lie. Abortion doesn't cure anything and makes a person worthy of dignity. Abortion only suppresses a momentary fear of parenting. It brings another fear, with which most often a woman is left alone. And I'm not talking about guilt. I'm talking about feeling lost. I come from Małopolska, a small homeland of the great Pole, St. John Paul II. We have every right to be proud of his legacy. His continuing message in defence of unborn life can be a signpost for every human community, including the state. Many express the desire for Poland to become the soul of Europe to protect human life. Europe certainly needs a conscience check on this issue, including Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u365	Thank you very much. The next statement will be made by Mrs Teresa Nolas, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The current governing coalition has been ruling over the country for several months, but it has repeatedly accounted for us and is trying to prove at all costs what bad changes we are making. Very easy, it is easy for the opposition to judge the government after a few months of government, and it cannot look at its 8 years of government. So I would like to give you an example of the city that is in my constituency, the city where the Civic Platform has been ruling undividedly for nearly 10 years, the city that is now on the verge of bankruptcy. This city is Grudziądz, one of the so-called. bastions of the Civic Platform in Kujawy and Pomerania. This town is getting worse. Grudziądz is getting louder for several reasons. The most important is the Georgian hospital, which is currently the most indebted hospital in Poland. His debt is over PLN 550 million. Until recently, he was managed by a member of the Civic Platform, who is also a councillor of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Seymour. Only when the national media became interested in the issue of Grudziądzko hospital did the President of Grudziądz react in some way. The first reaction was to dismiss the director. Unfortunately, at the moment, we already know who will be his successor. All the members of the Platform aren't really getting along right now to run it, unfortunately. And rightfully, if that's gonna be a problem. The city of Grudziądz, which owns this hospital, must contribute to its maintenance from its own budget. Only this year, 2016, Grudziądz will pay PLN 23 million to cover the loss of the hospital, excluding investment debts. If the city hadn't spent that money, the hospital would have to be wound up, and the city would have been subject to obligations not only to the hospital, but also to cities, in total more than PLN 800 million. Dirty is my hometown. In Grudziądz lives 95 thousand. residents at the moment. This is the result of the Civic Platform policy. But that's not the end of it. I often do voivodships in Grudziądz. People come to me and tell me stories. Staff policy in the city is based only on relationships and agreements. Practically every office is dominated by members of the Civic Platform. Contests for positions are just pure fiction. The authorities of Grudziądz apparently prefer to bet on building their electorate based on their positions. Ladies and gentlemen, another example is one of the vice presidents of Grudziądz, who was interested in Central Anti-corruption Bureau. Of course, it is also a member of the Civic Platform. The CBA decided that the vice president broke the anti-corruption bill and ordered him removed from office. The vice president resigned, and the next day the president re-elected him to the same position. That's what happens in Grudziądz. That's how the Civic Platform rules. President Grudziądz, a member of the Civic Platform, has sold several tenement houses in the city with residents in recent years. The case ended in the Supreme Court, which found the case illegal. The city will have to recover the tenement, pay off the buyers, and also pay large compensations to the tenants. Who's gonna pay for all this? People of Grudziądz. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, at the end of the day, with all my power, that I am against this kind of practice. This has to stop. The Civic Platform must also be settled in cities such as Grudziądz. We need to make people feel safe in cities like Grudziądz, including their finances, in order for their authorities to feel safe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They thought Only about them, not about themselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u368	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. We're in a post-Christmas sequence. The Holy Week is closing in on our various reflections on the issue of sacrum, but by nature we are already sneaking into the unbearable everyday life. Many things irritate us in her, she didn't satisfy us, she clearly embarrassed us. This feeling is generally strengthened by the fact that many people on both sides of the social relationship depend on us in such matters. Perhaps you're expecting something specific from this preamble. Here's the deal. I'll tell you about the marriage. They were together for nearly 56 years - such a wonderful, lasting marriage. You know, when barely a visible gesture, a discreet look was enough, because they both understood each other on the flight. Delicious gestures of caring, caring, when her health or strength was not enough. And sometimes signs of impatience and old-fashioned malice, which quickly replaced a warm apology and distant understanding. Unfortunately, life sometimes ends, leaving an unbearable void. They're what we were talking about out there. They were famous, respected, respected in the town. And then, when she didn't say goodbye enough, she gets a letter from an institution, addressed by a resident of the same street, who had known this family for years, in order to quickly arrange the formalities of mourning and insurance. A heartless, impersonal handwriting that reaches the hands of an 85-year-old woman in mourning who has not yet extinguished the evening habit of listening to whether he sleeps or breathes, a woman who, by making afternoon tea, with the practice of a long-term ritual, still pulls out two glasses, and today you don't need to. Institutional haste, efficiency as you look at, dehumanized, washed with empathy and any consideration for the appropriateness or impropriety of procedures. They dominate, cover yours, clerk, doctor, teacher, man, face. Then what am I asking? What's my point? What am I asking of you and myself? I'm asking you to be more caring and sensitive to each other. I encourage you to step out of the corset of various procedures, algorithms of action and organizational efficiency for greater empathy, anticipation, anticipation of what will happen to me, finally recognising that responsibility for what I have nearby, in terms of my vision and shoulders, should also include the responsibility of reason and heart. I think that's better. I think it's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u369	Thank you, sir. The statement will now be made by Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u370	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The death of innocent people always causes pain, rage and shock. Unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly common for us to watch ordinary citizens, passersby on the streets or passengers of means of communication become victims of violent terrorist attacks. From year to year, the threat of terrorism is growing worldwide. The drama that took place a few months ago in Paris and a few days ago in Brussels, in which I stayed at that time, during the terrorist attack, forces us not only to reflect, but also to take decisive steps that will ensure that the safety of Poles will not become seriously endangered. Poland has not yet been the main objective of terrorist action and there has been no need to introduce an increased level of security. However, we must remember that this year there will be World Youth Day celebrations in our country and the NATO Summit in Warsaw. In connection with the organisation of these events, serious measures must be taken to protect us from tragedy and ensure the highest level of security for millions of people. It is important to be aware that all forms of solidarity with the people of countries directly affected by terrorism are needed, but they will not deter potential assassins. That's why the anti-terrorist bill is already underway. It is aimed at, among others, at: introduction of rules strengthening the powers of police services, requiring the registration of all cards for mobile phones or allowing the expulsion from the country of aliens who are at risk. In the context of recent shocking attacks by Islamic fundamentalists, the subject of refugees is now returning. Among the hundreds of people who, every day, often without any documents, try to get to European countries, can hide fighters of the Islamic State. I am not 100% sure that there would be no members of this jihadist organization who plan to carry out bloody bombings or to facilitate them. We must remember that many Muslims are fanatics who are negative towards Christians and hate the people of the Old Continent. Their goal may not only be to use armed forces against innocent Westerners, but also to gradually destroy our culture and Christian values. Ensuring security for Poles is now the most important issue and must not give priority to unconditional tolerance, openness, political correctness. Therefore, I believe that we should put aside any consideration on the acceptance of refugees from Africa or the Middle East. It is also worth remembering that if our country were to accept immigrants, we should first help the Polish minority living in the East. The spectrum of terrorism, which has been hovering over Europe for some time now, forces us to make concrete and wise decisions and actions. We must ensure the safety and well-being of our citizens before the threat of bombings increases, especially now that we can hear voices about the possibility of terrorists using biological or chemical weapons. We cannot allow terrorists who kill defenseless civilians to take away our sense of security in our own home. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u371	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to make a statement by Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me return to the events of 19 March this year when I attended an unusual patriotic celebration, and all to share with the High House the observation that a beautiful tradition initiated in the Second Republic of Poland does not die in the nation. Here in Kolno, a small town on the route to Mazury, the local community organized a celebration of the name of Marshal Józef Piłsudski. They took place under the honorary patronage of the Ministry of National Defence and were worthy of it. Józef Piłsudski was an outstanding figure: a soldier, a politician, a Polish social and independence activist, the first marshal of Poland. The tradition of celebrating the names of Commander Piłsudski was started by legionaries during World War I, in 1915 in Grudzynów near Jędrzejów. The officers then offered him a gold watch with the inscription "The Dear Commandant," an officer's corps, and the 3rd battalion offered a beautiful album, which was later held at the Belvedere Museum. In 1919. Piłsudski celebrated his name in free Poland for the first time. Numerous delegations, especially young people, and crowds of people besieged Belvedere. On pl. Saski Piłsudski accepted the army show and later in Belvedere a delegation of all regiments. In May 1923, he withdrew from public life and moved permanently to Sulejówka, Milusin villa. For the next three years, he was here celebrating his first name. Each year during the name of the Marshal the manor became a place of pilgrimages of politicians, legionaries and ordinary people. In the last years of his life, Józef Piłsudski spent his name name in Vilnius, about which he spoke: a nice city. The names in Vilnius ran with a smaller pump, but warmer. The marshal was different here, he was happy to breathe Vilnius air. After the death of Marshal Piłsudski on 12 May 1935, his name was still held. The March day of each year was an opportunity to demonstrate patriotism expressed by numerous parades, ceremonial academies and services until 1939. The celebrations of the name of Józef Piłsudski were the most spectacular expression of the cult that surrounded him during the interwar period. For many people Piłsudski was the personification of reborn and independent Poland, a true hero, a person whom they respected and admired at the same time. Above all, however, he was a true authority. The tradition of celebrating the names of the marshal returned to the Third Republic, mainly thanks to the Association of Footballers and schools bearing the name of this great Pole. The celebrations I attended in Kolno were also organized on the initiative of the Association of Footballers and the Primary School of them. Marshal Józef Piłsudski in Red. The success was that many actors were involved in cooperation: the parish of St. Anna in Kolno, local authorities, schools, cultural institutions, associations and informal groups. The festivities inaugurated the Holy Mass at St. Anna in Kolno for her homeland and sleep. Marshal Piłsudski. After the service, the participants marched to the Independence Monument in the city park, where they listened to poems recited by the students from the school in Red and songs sung by the band "Red" and Natalia Święczkowska, a ward of the Kolneński Cultural and Sport Centre. The thrill passed on the back when this 12-year-old girl performed a song called "The Bible. " That's the country. There were also occasional speeches in the program of the celebrations. The last element of the ceremony was the laying of flowers and wreaths under a monument dedicated to independence by government delegations, school organizations. I was touched and amazed at how many social and age groups were involved in preserving the memory of an independent creator. Defense is also promoted in this city on that day through the participation of uniformed services. There were soldiers from 15. Mazury Battalion of Sappers in Orzysz, Military Complementary Command in Łomża, Cavalry Association. Podlasie Cavalry Brigade in Kolno, Union of Reserve Officers of the Republic of Poland Józef Piłsudski and Scout from Hufca ZHP in Kolno. Even the heavy snowfall did not interfere with this solemn occasion. The people of the Colinian land paid tribute to Marshal Józef Piłsudski in the city where the 18th battle ended, which was decisive for the fate of the world. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The patriotic celebration on the occasion of the name of Marshal Józef Piłsudski is of special importance, as it is celebrated in the year in which we will celebrate the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism and the beginning of our statehood. If it weren't for a marshal, who knows if and where Poland would be today. It is worth reminding, especially to young generations, where we are from, what values lie at the heart of Poland and who played a key role in the history of the homeland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] March 19th is a very important opportunity to talk about Joseph Piłsudski, not only because of the beautiful tradition of celebrating his namesakes. It was that day, on 19 March 1920, members of the General Verification Board came to Piłsudski and asked him to accept the nomination for the first marshal of Poland. Buława Marshalkowska was handed to him solemnly after the end of the Polish-Bolshevik war on 14 November 1920. It is worth talking about initiatives that shape historical awareness and contribute to the promotion of wise, responsible patriotic attitudes, especially if they are taken by local communities. I am proud that as a messenger, a representative of the land of Łomża, I was able to participate in the celebration of the name of Marshal Józef Piłsudski in Kolno, and congratulate the inhabitants of the district of Kolnen such a well organized patriotism lesson. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Lech Kołakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u374	Mr. Marshal, I would like to present to the High House the information given to me by the family of one of the soldiers cursed about the life and fight of a Polish officer. As part of the celebration of the National Day of Remembrance, the Soldiers of the Cursed in 2016 in Łomża held a number of wonderful celebrations - screening of the film - without forgiveness, the course of the Wolf's Trail, the Holy Mass for the Homeland and the victims of communist repression, the march of memory of the cursed soldiers and the touching ceremony dedicated to the memory of Major. Stanisława Cieślewski pseudod. July, prepared by students of the 3rd High School. Soldiers of the Łomżyński National Army in Łomża. Stanisław Cieślewski pseudod. July is a sacred memory soldier of the land of Łomża, who was awarded the Cross of Virtuti Militari, the Cross of Valiant and the Cross of Merit with Swords and posthumously the Cross with the Swords of Independence. Stanisław Cieślewski, lieutenant of the Polish Army reserve, captain of the AK, commander of the district of AK Łomża, deputy inspector of the District Inspector of AK Łomża, commander 33. AK Infantry Regiment, born in 1907 in Bronów, commune of Łomża, district of Łomża. In the September campaign, he fought in the 77th regiment in the platoon of pioneers. After breaking up this unit, he returned home in Bronów and began his conspiracy in October 1939. Initially he was deputy commander of the ZWZ Łomża circuit. Franciszek Skowronka, and after his death in the fight against the NKVD in March 1941 took command of the circuit. Wanted by the NKVD, he was hiding. In retaliation, the Soviets deported his parents, family, brother and sister to the Soviet Union in June 1941. In 1942, he was appointed Deputy Inspector of Provincial III Łomża AK Jan Tabortowski. In November 1942, he was arrested in Łomża together with Tabortowski and an officer of the district command by a German police patrol and imprisoned in a Łomża prison. On the night of 12 to 13 January 1943, he and a group of fellow prisoners escaped from prison thanks to the help of the local organization AK. During his escape, he broke his leg and treated himself in hiding for several months. He then returned to active command with the Łomża circuit, until July 1944 as Deputy Inspector Captain. Jerome Lagoda. He used the nickname July at the time. He was appointed commander of the AK Łomża 33 circuit. AK infantry regiment. The regiment's commander took over his duties in May 1944. Since the spring of 1944, the creation of a guerrilla base in which the circuit headquarters and about 30 guerrillas were located began among the Narvian swamps. Over time, the condition of the branch grew. After the announcement of mobilization at the turn of July and August 1944, there were about 200 guerrillas. In June and July 1944, a group divided into small divisions carried out away actions against the retreating German troops. From 10 to 12 August, the group made a successful attempt to break through the German ring and then into a secure area. 15 November 1944 Cieślewski was arrested on the street in Białystok by the NKVD and transported under a false name into the USSR. He was held in camps in Ostaszkow and Ryazan. He returned to the country at the end of 1946. During the amnesty in 1947, he revealed himself. He worked for a while at the plywood factory in Writing. Then he went to Warsaw, where he lived with his former superior and friend Major. Jan Tabortowski. Probably in early 1948 he became interested in the Third Department of the Ministry of Public Security. He's been called in for questioning. In the spring of 1948, together with Tabortowski, he left the capital and left for the Łomżyn-Grajewskie border area. There he hid in a safe place, but after a few months he returned to Warsaw, where he was again interested in UB. In the spring of 1949, he fled with Tabortowski in the vicinity of Łomża for the second time and was hiding among the Biebrza swamps. When Tabortowski returned to the capital after a few months, Cieślewski was hiding with trusted hosts in the Łomża district. In the spring of 1950, Tabortowski once again settled over Biebrza. In November 1950, they both shot two UB officers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] claiming to be members of a broken guerrilla unit. From the winter of 1951 until the beginning of the summer of 1952, the six-person branch was in the bunker under Wacław Chrostowski's barn in the village of Nadbory, Jedwabne commune, Łomża district. In the summer of 1952 the activities of the operational groups of UB, MO and CWB increased. At that time there was a gap between Tabortowski and Cieślewski, who left the branch and in August 1952 established communication with the lonely former deputy president of the WiN Łomża circuit. Józef Ramotowski. Together they found a hiding place with friends of the hosts in the municipality of Jedwabne. On the night of 26 to 27 August 1952 they moved to the buildings of Jarosław Modzelewski and Bronisław Chojnowski in the village of Grądy Mały. Their arrival was reported by a UB confidant in Łomża. At the dawn of 27 August 1952, the house was surrounded by the operating group UB Łomża and KBW. During the fight Cieślewski was killed and Ramotowski was wounded and arrested. The City Council of Łomża adopted a resolution on giving the street the name of Major. Stanisław Cieślewski, which was also accepted by the residents during the vote. At the ceremony dedicated to the memory of Major. Stanisław Cieślewski was present with many excellent guests, among others. Bishop Tadeusz Bronakowski, Member of the Republic of Poland Lech Kołakowski, presidents of the city of Łomża, councillors, uniformed services, school youth and Major's family. Cieślewski, who thanks all people very much for their participation and helping to honor the memory of soldiers of the cursed land of Łomża. Stanisław Cieślewski pseudod. July for his conspiracy activity was awarded the Virtuti Militari V class cross, the Valiant Cross, the Silver Cross of Merit with Swords and posthumous Cross with the Swords of the Order of Independence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u375	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u376	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Health Service Workers' Day and World Health Day are celebrated on 7 April, on the anniversary of the World Health Organisation (WHO). World Health Day was established in 1948. Every year it is celebrated under a different motto, and the purpose of the action on this day is to pay particular attention to the most neglected areas and health problems of the world's societies. It is also a day where it is worth noticing and appreciating efforts, dedication and involvement of health professionals. This year's World Health Day is celebrated under the motto "Defeat Diabetes." As diabetes spreads more and more, it is becoming increasingly important to know how the risk of diabetes can be minimized and how it can be detected and treated. Nearly 350 million people worldwide suffer from diabetes - a chronic illness that occurs when the body does not produce enough insulin or is unable to effectively use its own insulin in the metabolism of sugars from food intake. Insulin is a hormone that regulates the level of blood sugar that is a source of energy that you need. We're gonna live. In 2012, diabetes was the direct cause of approximately 1.5 million deaths worldwide, 80% of which were took place in low- and medium-income countries. According to WHO forecasts by 2030, diabetes will become the seventh most common cause of death. The effect of diabetes on the patient's life can be minimised with appropriate treatment. Even those with type 1 diabetes can enjoy a long life in health if their blood sugar levels are closely controlled. It is therefore very important to increase knowledge of the increasing prevalence of diabetes, its heavy burden and its serious consequences. 7 April is also Health Care Workers' Day. On this occasion, I pay tribute and gratitude to all doctors, nurses and entire medical staff for their efforts and dedication to save the life and health of others. I wish that this very responsible and difficult work is the greatest gift and that the willingness and joy of helping those suffering will be the source of your vocation. I would also like to thank you for your concern about patient health and for your commitment to improving the availability and quality of health services provided.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-03-30-sejm-15-1.u377	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 31 March 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 01]]
