ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer to Mr Elżbieta Borowska, Mr Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Mr Marcin Duszek and Mr Krzysztof Kubow as the secretaries of today's proceedings. Marcin Duszek and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek and Elżbieta Borowska. I consider the minutes of the 30th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the Commission's draft law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act, print No 984, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] - Report of the Commission on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National, governmental draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the Polish National, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Law on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment and the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices, prints 771, 806 and 993. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles. At the Seniors Convention meeting, opposition was raised and it was proposed that this be a 10-minute statement. I will therefore put this opposition to the vote at the moment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies... [[Game in the O.R.]] Do we have to wait a little longer? Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote. We wait patiently. [[Game in the O.R.]] As I see that several Members are still drawing up ballots, I inform you that several Members have also made themselves known with formal proposals. Maybe I'll allow one of the conclusions right now. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform Club. Formal conclusion. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is asking for a break so that during this time, the Marshal may comment on the issue of limiting the work of journalists in the Sejm. Mr. Marshal, with disbelief, me and my club are accepting information about an attempt to limit media freedom...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u3	Madame, I am sorry, but this proposal does not concern the agenda. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u4	I'd like to justify a request for a recess, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u5	That's all the Members?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u6	I'd like to ask the marshal to allow me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u7	Madam, I ask you very much to leave the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, we ask you very much to comment on your willingness to leave...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u9	Madam, your proposal does not concern the agenda. [[It's a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u10	...to ban journalists from entering the Sejm's main building. Mr. Marshal, the Poles have the right...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u11	Madame, allow me to hold a session of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, the Poles have the right...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u13	Member, I will have to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u14	...for full information about the functioning of the parliament they have chosen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u15	Madam, once again, I ask you to leave the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u16	Members and senators have a duty to inform citizens of their work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u17	Madam President, I must say that you are preventing me from taking part in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u18	On the other hand, it is your duty to ensure that the work can be carried out. Marshal: I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are disturbing the session of the Sejm at the moment. Mr. Marshal, any prohibition, any restriction threatens transparency and public access to information.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u19	Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. Madame, I ask you very much to leave the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! The editors of the media working in the Sejm, but also the Civic Platform Club, wrote a letter to the Marshal asking him to respond to this case. [[Mr. Marshal, 5,000.]] In addition to the laconic response of the Press Office...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u21	Member of the Commission, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I call you to order, and I find that you are preventing your deliberations from being held. [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] I'm gonna have to take your vote right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u22	I'd like you to allow the marshal to... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Weak!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u23	Thank you very much. Have all the Members received the cards yet? We can proceed with the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, back to the vote. We proceed to the vote on the proposal which the Sejm Bureau has given us, i.e. the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal that the Bureau of the Sejm will listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on the added point, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 406 Members voted. 244 voted against - 160, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention adopted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to examine at its meeting the current information on the change of the city's borders on the rights of the district of Opole and the municipality of Dąbrowa, the commune of Zbąń Wielkie, Komprachcice and the municipality of Prószków, which, by virtue of the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 19 July 2016 on the establishment of the borders of certain municipalities and cities, will enter into force on 1 January 2017, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u24	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 14, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Justice and Human Rights together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 16, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 16, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 17, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 20, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 20, - to Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry - h.m. 8:30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 21. Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Lubuskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 15, - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 17. Last message. The pastoral ministry of parliamentarians warmly invites ladies and gentlemen to the Advent Retreat which will take place on 14 and 16 December this year. Traditionally, the first two days of retreat will take place in the church of St. St. Aleksandra at pl. Three Crosses in Warsaw. The retreats will be held on Wednesday 14 December and Thursday 15 December at 3 p.m. 20. Mass on the last day of the retreat, i.e. Friday 16 December, will take place at 3 p.m. 7.15 in the Seym Chapel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u25	Thank you, sir. High Seym! I would like to inform you that I am pleased to inform the High House that we are currently being heard by a delegation of Swedish Riksdag with his President, Urban Ahlin. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Welcome. The delegation is in the Sejm in connection with the 4th edition of the Polish-Swedish Forum held today. At the moment, the formal proposal is made by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u26	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with Article 2, the following paragraph is added: Paragraph 184. 3 I ask that the sitting of the Sejm be postponed until the Prime Minister's information on the liquidation of mines, the liquidation of jobs in Silesia, in Silesian mines is put on the agenda. [[Applause]] That's why I'm here. We want to be clear: anything you close, we'll open up because we'll bet on the economy. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You are the liquidations of the Polish economy. There's no permission to do that. [[Bravo!]] I'm directing this to you. You know who said that? [[Applause, ringtone]] Prime Minister Szydlo on 1 January 2015 [[Applause]] Barborek's in a few days. Have the courage to tell the miners, the inhabitants of Silesia, the Poles that you are eliminating their jobs, that you have not prepared a program for Silesia that you are transferring PLN 8 billion to the liquidation. And for the development of Silesia how much have you prepared? [[Applause]] [[Disgraceful.]] Prime Minister, Mr Marshal, I request that the Prime Minister come and say this to all Members here, from the Sejm and, above all, to the inhabitants of Silesia and the miners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u27	Thank you very much. But I am informing the High House that this proposal for... The proposal presented by the Member was discussed at the Seniors' Convention meeting and was addressed to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. At the Senior Convention meeting, everyone was informed that the committee was meeting on this matter tomorrow to consider, and we have an agreement that if the committee examines this proposal and there is such an opinion, we will put it on the agenda on Friday. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. It's also a formal conclusion. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There was a minister of health named Religa. And this minister, unlike the minister who is today, was a brave man. He said that he would create a network of hospitals and that he must therefore close about 200 hospitals in Poland. Minister Radziwiłł forgot to tell Prime Minister Szydło because I do not believe in bad intentions here. It cannot be that the Polish government wants to close the Lower Silesian Centre for Lung Diseases, the Centre for Burning Treatment in Siemianowice Śląskie, the Silesian Centre for Rehabilitation. [[Scandal!]] [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] I don't think the Minister has informed the Prime Minister, and that's why I'm making a formal motion. I cannot assume that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government accepts this kind of solution of the Minister of Health. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's also good information. The Minister of Health invented a recipe for yeast and patented even a name. He called them the Soviets. My conclusion is that the Prime Minister should try to enter the competence of the Minister of Health, because after Schetyn there are schetinski, after Radziwillelle there will be Radzivilłówka, and after the Prime Minister, and I fear it, there may be an ally - empty hospitals and middle school. I have the impression that the Prime Minister would not wish for such a situation, and that is the decision made by the Minister of Health today. More than 100 hospitals in Poland, more than 100 hospitals to close according to the Minister of Health project. We were in Sopot. A great historical hospital, well functioning, without debt, hundreds of people gathered around this hospital only because the Minister of Health decided that there would be no rheumatology hospital in Sopot. And no one explained to the people why. Attempting to liquidate the Burn Treatment Center. This is a hospital that supports all of Poland... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u29	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u30	...the most severe cases of burns...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u31	Mr... Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u32	...railroad accidents, car accidents. Prime Minister, we call on you to see what the Minister of Health does. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Unfortunately, I did not see the formal proposal here, and I remind you that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda of the Sejm. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-attached Member, has the floor. There you go. It's also a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u34	Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] First the justification and then the formal conclusion. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent days, more and more appalling information has been coming in, showing that unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice in the policy of tradition, customs, culture, protection of the family not only did not oppose what the Civic Platform was doing, but still follows this rainbow highway and can not even be seen braking. Why? It turns out that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy financed 200,000. zł program of the Autonomy Foundation, which is entering Polish schools, in which we have this program, among others. such cultural Marxism concepts as the fight against homophobia, the fight for equality of the various so-called. sexual orientation. We are dealing with feminist, homosexual propaganda in Polish schools for money from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u35	Mr President, what item is your proposal on the agenda?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u36	Moreover, it is a continuum - in a moment I will finish my justification and give you to which point, Mr Marshal - what is more, it is a continuum of politics which was expressed by the government in June this year, when we supported further legislation of this type in the European Union. Moreover, on 21 November, in the United Nations, the government, together with other liberal countries, opposed the resolution of the African group, which does not want cultural Marxism and homopropaganda to function in the United Nations. Unfortunately, the Government of Law and Justice supports this and this is a scandal. I therefore have a question for Catholic Members who are in PiS: What are you doing in this Seym? Your government within the European Union, within the UN... [[What are you doing here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u37	Ladies, I would like to make a formal request for a specific item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u38	...and in the ministry's politics, he supports homopropagand. What are you doing in this Seym? Why do you support such power? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u39	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u40	Mr. Marshal, that's why I'm applying for a recess so that the government can put forward a position on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u41	Mr President, I cannot consider this proposal to be a formal proposal, because - I would like to remind you once again - in accordance with Article. Paragraph 184. 2 formal proposals may relate to the agenda, so I would ask you not to abuse my patience and, however, to follow the rules that the High House has set itself. Mr Janusz Sanocki, MEP. Mr President, I have a request. Mr, I have a request, please tell me which item on the agenda...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u42	He's here. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u43	No, no, the next meeting's later, because right now...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u44	But I...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u45	No, thank you very much. Excuse me, sir. We're just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u46	I wanted to ask the Bureau to introduce a point for the Sejm meeting. [[Tuesday's Tuesday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u47	About the current session of the Sejm?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u48	To bring the Sejm's Bureau to the next session of the Sejm, the nearest point... But I repeat, we can talk about this at the next session of the Sejm, Mr. It's too late.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u49	Then write to me in writing. At the moment, I cannot accept your proposal as a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u50	That's what I'm gonna have to do next time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor. Member to which point?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u52	The first one.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u53	The first one. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to art. Paragraph 184. 3 paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break in the sitting and that the government provide precise calculations of the committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you have fired the Minister of Finance, that this role in the Polish government is not needed, but I wanted to ask if anyone else in this government is counting money at all. If you are making such significant changes in the amount of free money that has fallen to the Senate Public Finance Commission today, either admit that these changes do not bring anything completely into the finances of Poles, or show the source of funding. Today we have such a situation that the senator and the minister are talking about completely different amounts relating to other groups of people. Finally, it turns out that it is doubtful whether people will benefit at all. Finally, we hear that it will actually affect the budget by a billion zlotys less, and this is another billion that you will miss in this budget. This is unacceptable to manage the state's finances in this way. If you want to manage your finances in such a sloppy way, then manage your household finances... [[Shh... don't yell!]] ...not the state, because I don't want you as a taxpayer to manage the state's finances. Not to mention that this is legislatively unacceptable, because this type of, so far-reaching change should be subject to three readings. [[Applause]] It's against the constitution, what you're doing today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u55	Thank you very much. That's the solution I see. If I were to take your motion as a formal motion, I would remind you that in the first point we will discuss the draft resolution of the Senate, not the Sejm, after the voting block, after hearing the opinion of the representative of the government on this point, we will return to this matter. Right now, we're starting to consider... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, but my conclusion... we can provide calculations on this point. We are to debate a point where the government has not given any calculations at all, nor has the BAS opinion, nor the Legislative Bureau, nor has there been any concrete calculations.]] [[Before the debate, the calculations needed.]] After considering this point, if the government fails to present them, you will apply again. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: But to this point.]] I mean, I'll take your motion for review. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws (prints no. 1066 and 1070). I ask Mr Tadeusz Cymanski to submit a report to the committee. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u56	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have been honored, honored, honored, and honored, even though it is a more personal accent, to present a report on the work that took place today in the Committee on Public Finance. The Public Finance Commission leaned on the Senate report on the Law amending the Income Tax Act. I'm not overreacting... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u57	Excuse me, sir. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House who are having a conversation, I would like to ask them to move these talks to colloquials, if any. We're at an important point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u58	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u59	Even a Member with such a loud voice as Mr Cymanski has a problem with important information...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u60	I can speak louder. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Please.]] [[Go ahead.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u61	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, really, this may not be interesting. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Nobody has to, no one has to vote in Russia - why not, but now there's a debate, please. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I report on the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act on the amendment of the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. In short, this case is called a tax-free amount, because in this draft law this subject and this case completely dominated its overall content. Ladies and gentlemen, the High House has passed to the Senate a draft law in a very modest version as regards the case of the tax-free amount. [[With a tax-free amount.]] Let me remind you: by decision of the High House, the income tax law introduced an amount free of charge of the previous amount. No amendments and no amendments were included, and I will use the language of the Tribunal - mechanisms to correct this amount in the spirit of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. What happened? Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the Senate very boldly and courageously indeed... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[He canceled the free amount.]] I'm not from the living room, but I'm asking for peace. The Senate has made a very important change, a number of amendments. [[Exactly.]] He introduced a solution that took the form of... [[Liquidation.]] ...print no. 1066 - this is the signature - in which, let's say very clearly, changes are made, very important changes in the amount of tax free. According to the conclusion of the tribunal - let us remind you, it is very important - the tribunal emphasized this very strongly and gave a deadline that passes tomorrow. This circumstance of time is very important here, because, of course, there are reasons and accusations that we are doing it instantly. Yes, time causes that if we don't do it now, we won't do it at all. This criticism can be accepted, indeed, but it is true that the Senate has presented and proposes to the High House now, here in the Sejm, a solution which, first of all, introduces a much higher tax-free amount. Let us remind you that this is the sum of the sum resulting from the multiplication of the minimum amount, the amount of existence, the amount referred to in the judgment, times twelve. To put it simply, with regard to persons whose annual income is below the poverty line, in spirit and on the basis of the Constitution, the Senate proposes that the High House should consider that income tax should not be levied on such persons. This is the conclusion of the position. For a large group, for the vast majority of taxpayers this amount will not change. However, the novelty and great emotion, of course, is that the Senate proposes that a group of taxpayers, to be precise, be around 700,000. People... These are our citizens whose annual income exceeds 85,000. PLN 450,000. citizens and 127 000. taxpayers exceed 127 000. zł. To speak clearly and graphically, it was expressed in the discussion in the finance committee, of course, in the conclusion that the family would not benefit from the tax-free amount, if we accept the common taxation of spouses, about the income of over PLN 1/4 million. Let us remember that this benefit is PLN 556 per year, this is the scale. Some people talk about the punch, the attack, others talk about the thinning, but it's a matter of position, and that's what I propose. Per balance in the assumption of the Ministry of Finance the entire operation will result in an additional burden on the budget by reducing revenue of PLN plus minus PLN 1 billion. We are talking per balance here by PLN 1 billion, because 700 thousand. taxpayers will not benefit from the tax-free amount. Of course, it will increase influence. Per balance of 1 billion results, that's the conclusion. As regards the work carried out in the committee itself, I am obliged to present this work to the High House. They have happened, as you have heard, dear colleagues, literally just a moment ago, in the morning. Representatives of the opposition took the floor, the coalition took the floor. Janusz Silchoń asked in his speech what effect this law will have on the least earners, the lowest income. He pointed out that a large part - and this is the material that is confirmed in the statements - does not pay income tax. This thread was also expressed in other Members' speeches. You also asked Prof. Włodzimierz Nykiel, Member of the Professor, who, quoting the 2014 figures, asked the representative of the Minister of Finance if the number of taxpayers who would not pay tax would increase. In a very extensive, detailed, professional speech by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from Modern Technology, she pointed out to a group of workers who are currently in such a situation that they cannot enter into income the costs of commuting, renting an apartment, that there may be people, and there are probably few for whom the tax-free amount is very important. That was, you could say, the point of her speech. Of course, she also expressed herself in the voice of her colleagues who acted before her and who criticized this solution, suggesting or even claiming that it would not have any effect and it is, I quote, a trick. Yes, the word "artificial." Whatever anyone wants, they may think, but that's how it's been presented. Monika Wielichowska in an interesting formula accused the governing camp that she had not used 8 years to prepare for these changes. [[And that's true.]] But I'm not from checking the truth, but... [[That's what I'm talking about.]] ...my job is to faithfully reflect the course of the debate. She said that, she gave me a smile on the committee, and now. I see some people in the O.R. are reacting. Instead of explaining for eight years, it's better to say that we wasted it, that we didn't prepare. I'm not getting into these polemics, I'm just paying attention. That's what happened, that's what happened. Minister, Mrs Leszczyna, Mrs Izabela Leszczyna pointed out, asked who would really benefit from this. That question kept coming back. Will this solution, which the Senate is putting forward today, really be of great help to those with the lowest incomes? It's been coming back all along. In response to these words, Mrs Zuba pointed out that the main message of these changes is concern for the weakest. And here was some sort of polemic. Of course, the chairman of the committee, Mr Sasin, also spoke. He drew attention to the data that Mrs Izabela Leszczyn gave, with a positive statement of 8 years, i.e. that during this period of 8 years significantly, because by as much as 10% The poverty rate has decreased. Then, I do not know whether I am allowed to say, in a biteful, pinchy way, she pointed out that Deputy Prime Minister Morawiecki is planning to reduce the scale of poverty by much less than a percentage. In how many years? [[16 years old.]] In 16 years. But it was a polemic, more political piece, not referring to the substance, and the most important is the changes that the Senate is proposing to the High House. For the full picture to be in line with these events... Please forgive that this is not detailed, because it is so ad hoc, it is done quickly, it is true, so I have to use memory a little. Mr.Rafal Wójcikowski as always very interestingly - he used us to this professionalism, to the accuracy, to the style - he calculated exactly what it would look like in particular tax groups, because actually, taking these thresholds, we are introducing solutions for certain fragments. He concluded that this proposal would mean - maybe on a small scale, but nevertheless - the introduction of several thresholds, de facto, strictly, tax thresholds. With this, the Minister of Finance did not undertake polemics, but Mr Rafał Wójcikowski spoke about it. He caused the reaction of another Member, Mr Cymanski, who referred to his words. He said it was a blow or a swing, that he was gonna lose his middle class because it was 700,000. People will pay more tax. I asked the question: Is one of our young Members present in the committee, who has a non-working wife, middle class or not? That means he doesn't, because he doesn't make enough money. So if this is the middle class, those who don't have a tax-free amount, then where is this class... Maybe she's not here at all. I'm paying attention... I can say it here because I also spoke in the debate. I think it was a crucial discussion. Of course, the issue is of great importance because it concerns practically all citizens. It has a huge financial dimension, it has a political dimension, but it also has a huge moral and social dimension. As rapporteur, I can say it again because I was a part of it too. From here, ladies and gentlemen, that's what I said... [[I'm afraid so.]] ...from this place many years ago sleep. Przemysław Gosiewiski spoke, said to the left that their Lord was right to punish them, because the left and liberals introduced a tax of 19 percent. [[But don't wave your fingers at us.]] I'm waving at them now. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Sorry about the excitement, but that's what he said. He was addicted to the support of the PiS, who was then in opposition, to raising the tax-free amount. You can check it out, the Internet doesn't forget. That's what happened. Then times changed. We've had our chance, I'm talking about my environment, and I'm talking about this chance to raise this disgraceful, low amount, we haven't taken advantage of it. But I think we have the courage, so to speak, and so I said, to make a critical assessment of our own accomplishments, to reflect. Patience is rewarded today. This moment is of great importance not only in the sense of politics, because there will probably be intense discussions here, but there is no doubt that it is and it de facto means transfer, transfer. Yeah, when it comes to most of them, it doesn't change anything. A large group of the weakest, even, can say, the poorest, the poorest citizens will receive small, but felt, important support for them. And you can't hide it, you can't hide it, you can't hide it, and I also said it, reporting that there's a group, 700,000. Citizens... Yeah, but it's not a punch, it's a slight pinch, it's a pinch. The rich citizens of our country will make a gesture - perhaps forced - towards the weakest. This is the change, the huge change, the reorientation. I am saying this because I have waited patiently for this for many years and have experienced many disappointments. I apologize at the moment to my colleagues in the opposition for this more emotional, personal accent, but I said exactly so in the finance committee, and that is why what I am saying is not a big abuse. To conclude, we voted this bill and the finance commission with all our seriousness... [[She abolished the tax-free amount.]] ...calls, asks the High House to adopt this report in the version submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. And also, in advance, I wanted to inform the High House that at this point I do not anticipate questions, because we are still in a big time and we still have a block of votes ahead. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Corporate Income Tax and the Act amending the Act Tax Order and some other laws. The Senate amendments introduce a progressive tax-free amount. These regulations are designed to relieve people who often live on the verge of existence. These regulations referred to by the Senate meet the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. We want as law and justice, we want as the government of law and justice, so that taxes are fair, so that taxes do not hit the poorest. Raising the tax-free amount to 8,000 zloty is our electoral promise, which we will strive for over the next few years. [[Lie!]] Today, after a year of our governments, we are increasing this amount to 6,6,000. zł. [[For who? For everyone?]] How will these changes translate into the daily life of Poles? Well, those who make $1,000. PLN per month will gain 265 PLN. People receiving a social pension of PLN 840 will gain PLN 132. This may not be relevant to you, it may not be relevant to those who shouted so loudly in the Committee on Public Finance, who shouted loudly during the procedure of this law. But these are important amounts for more than 3 million Poles who will benefit from the proposed changes. As the rapporteur said very precisely, for the vast majority of taxpayers, the situation will not change for more than 19 million taxpayers. So who's gonna lose? They'll lose the richest. A very small group will lose 556 PLN. It's over 235,000. people who earn more than 127 thousand. zł. So who are you defending? Who are you defending, dear opposition? Why do you forget the poorest? Today everything has been calculated precisely. After three quarters of this year we have tax revenues higher by almost PLN 14 billion. There are further solutions sealing the tax system. Looks like it's all working. We repair public finances, repair what has been ruined by 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. [[You're way out of your league.]] Let me remind you that the 2017 budget is our first authorial draft of the state budget. The Civic Platform cannot decide what kind of opposition it wants to be. He really has a big problem here. When we introduced the 500+ programme, the politicians of this group criticized it first. They said that the budget wouldn't stand this program, that it's unrealistic that all this is about 500+ is going to ruin the state budget. Later, the same politicians from the Civic Platform proposed a significant extension of the programme. The same is true today. For 8 years of government, the Civic Platform has done virtually nothing about the tax-free amount, unless we consider that raising by 2 PLN is a step in the right direction. During the discussion of the original project, you criticized the fact that we did not raise the tax-free amount, but when today everything was completely converted... [[Where's the math, sir? Where's the math?]] ...and full responsibility for public finances we can introduce a higher tax-free amount, the State of the Civic Platform is voting against. So tell the Poles honestly that you do not want the tax-free amount to be increased. [[That's not a free amount.]] [[8,000. for everyone.]] At the meeting of the finance committee, you voted against. You haven't done anything for ordinary people in eight years. [[Lie!]] Poverty in Poland under your rule was cultivated. [[You're lying.]] Today, while in opposition, you are still trying to block these changes, fortunately ineffectively. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, we are in favour of the amendments of the Senate and will vote against them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Way to go, Sylvek!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u65	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of Izabela Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u66	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! Minister! I understand that shame makes you break the rules of the Sejm and close the mouth of the opposition. I don't blame you because you raise taxes, telling people you're lowering them. That's actually pretty dwarf, which is why you're afraid of the simple questions the opposition would like to ask you. We have heard many lies from the Member... [[Sylvester Tulaev.]] ... Tulayev, but also from the rapporteur. You've been talking about 3 million poor people who benefit from this bill. That's a lie. In the national media, what Prime Minister Gliński called propaganda crazy will certainly begin in a moment. You will talk about how the poor will benefit from this bill. But what is this bill? In this bill, you're eliminating the amount free. That's what you're doing with the bill. The free amount was a simple and readable element of the Polish tax system. All taxpayers are equal to the law. If you don't have money to raise this amount because you've already ruined the Polish economy for a year, then at least have the courage to come out here and tell the Poles: we're putting out a white flag because we don't have the money, we've given it away. [[Applause]] The economy is shrinking. It was 3.9%. When we left it to you, and now you've got 2.5%. Or less at the end of the year. [[But we'd better host.]] You complicate this system to hide that no one's gonna benefit from this shift. 'Cause who's gonna benefit? PiS considered the man who makes 750 zlotys a month to be a cresus. Earning 750 zlotys a month is according to PiS such a cresus that it does not deserve to raise the amount free. [[Applause]] That's the bill. [[Shame!]] [[And you're 300.]] Minister of Finance, tell us who will benefit from this amount free, since the minimum pension is $1,000. PLN from next year, and the minimum wage is 2 000. zł. You say that if someone has 750 zlotys on their hands, they should no longer use this increased amount. That's the facts. Mr President, I understand that you would like this bill to have a moral dimension, because it sounds beautiful, but this law is immoral, because it is simply lying. [[Applause]] The Member spoke about the 3 million poor. We want them to be better, too. On the other hand, you have not mentioned that 4.5 million of the poorest Polish taxpayers after deduction of the reliefs introduced by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL do not pay income tax at all, Mr. [[Applause]] Then who did you come up with this bill for? The Member has just said that you have higher tax revenues, that there is economic growth. By God, why don't you share this growth with people who earn a few hundred zlotys a month? [[You promised, you cheated.]] Share this height. [[That's what we're doing. We're sharing.]] The Civic Platform will not legitimize the fraud of the Law and Justice, because you are cheating people with this bill. [[Voice from the room: To the ethics committee!]] On the other hand, the real reason for introducing it is not your respect for the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, because as two weeks ago you voted on a completely different amount of freedom, that sentence was already there. It is your fear that people will go to court, that they will expect the fiscus to pay them back in accordance with the judgment of the tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Then why won't you support it?]] You made this bill so the Poles couldn't win that money in court. She's so sad and totally [[♪ The bell ♪]] immoral truth, sir. [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u67	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Blaze Parda, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, the procession itself was very strange. After midnight it turned out that there is a Senate report and this amendment is not really an amendment, but a new law completely amending this law. I don't know if you have such a pace, or if you like to wait for the last moment, because here was the raised date that it was supposed to be until the end of November. After all, you've known about this forever, and suddenly, five minutes before the end of the month, you're throwing something in: an hour. 8 a.m. committee, at 3 p.m. 12 vote and report today. The minimum social criterion in Poland is PLN 7700 per year, the minimum pension is to be PLN 12,000. PLN per year, social pension is 8600 PLN per year, unemployment benefit is 7,000, 8,4 thousand, respectively. And 10,000. PLN per year, minimum wage - more than 20,000. PLN per year. Question: "Who is this threshold of 6600 PLN for?" I think it's mostly for the media and just for PR. Another very important element is to complicate such a very complicated law. The Deputy Minister admitted at the committee meeting that, of course, our tax system is very complicated, but, well, it can be even more complicated. We're about to find out that the integrals that were in math school are really going to be useful for us to figure out what kind of tax we pay each year. There are five tax thresholds with a mobile tax rate. First of all, we need to think about simplifying these rules, not making them even more complicated. I know it's better for you because there's not a lot of people who can figure out who's gonna benefit, who's not gonna benefit. The media says it's the least earner. Someone who earns the minimum is going to think, "Oh, that's what they're talking about, 'cause nobody makes the less money, because how? No, no, it's not you they're talking about, don't be afraid. It's about a whole different group of people. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] In fact, it's a 94% tax raise. Poles, because you planned inflation in the budget at 1.5% that is almost all Poles will lose to keep this tax-free amount. And the poor guy with the minimum wage, even the guy who works part-time for minimum wage, he's gonna lose it, too. They promised that there would be prosperity, they forgot to add that for them maybe this prosperity begins at the level of several hundred zlotys. Pole, if you earn $1,000. For law and justice, you're a fat bull and you found a golden horn. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u69	Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza. [[Now there's gonna be a second position.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to explain something because I didn't get it. We have promised citizens a tax-free amount, and we offer a tax-free amount. Right? [[Applause]] For most people, this will mean that there is no tax-free amount for many citizens. I wonder where the ministry, where the applicant got these 3 million Poles, since this increase in the tax-free amount, as the previous speaker explained here, will not include people who work even part-time or will not include pensioners, because I will remind you that from next year on, the minimum pension is 1 000. PLN per month. [[It will be. Read it.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] Mr. Reporter, next year's minimum pension is what? [[$1,000. zł.]] $1,000. PLN per month. That's right. So this is a year... [[$12,000. zł.]] ...12,000. zł. [[And they will benefit from PLN 252.]] The thresholds and numbers are clearly shown. The state proposes that citizens who earn less than PLN 550 per month will gain. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's not true.]] 450 PLN.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u71	I would like to ask Members not to disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u72	Here's what I'm gonna say: for me, it's just a game of wuss. We have promised citizens lower taxes, and for most citizens this will be a significant increase in taxes. To me, it's just a scam. PR, media eye soap, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that it's going to be any improvement, it's just Missing the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u73	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. Excuse me, Mr Richard Petru. Excuse me, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be a tax reduction - there is a spoiling of Poles. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Ladies and gentlemen, the real name of Morawiecki's plan is: how to rip off Poles without telling them. [[Voice from the room: Dijacking specialist.]] A year after the Beata Szydło government was sworn in, it's safe to say you can't handle it. You promised, you didn't count, and now you're looking for ways to not deliver on those promises we made. I remember the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło: we will increase the amount free for everyone. Do you remember that? A year ago she lied to Poles like that. And today we can't afford it. I just can't stand it. I heard the slogans that there was a very heavy budget after the Platform. There was indeed a very high deficit. But you didn't know that? Couldn't you count it? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the caricature of your promises. In fact, both the President and the Prime Minister lied in the election campaign. I wonder what signal you send to Polish citizens, entrepreneurs, if within a few hours before 30 November you are able to change the tax system. Until a week ago, you had no idea what to do with it, you didn't know how to follow the recommendations of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, this higher amount of 6,6,000. PLN per year is actually going to the earners and those who work part-time, part-time. Therefore, the Constitutional Tribunal's decision does not mention this at all. This proposal is really about those who do not earn more than PLN 916 per month. This is branding, ladies and gentlemen, branding what the Constitutional Tribunal required of you, and in fact you are raising taxes for those who are more entrepreneurial in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, has anyone ever counted this in your house, or has anyone counted... [[Yes.]] ...how much less money will go into the National Health Fund? 'Cause it's usually that when it comes to people who don't make a living, their entire tax goes to the NFZ. Question: "Where will this gap be financed?" [[From the scandal, from VAT.]] What will this gap be financed from? Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question: Is your only way of functioning a further sovereign debt? You're gonna end up like the PRL, which means you're gonna bankrupt yourself. Ladies and gentlemen, the amount free should be equal to everyone. That is the definition of the amount free. I don't know if I have to explain it to anybody, because I see that here... Is there anybody from the Ministry of Finance at all? [[In an extremely neoliberal theory it is.]] Oh, there's no such ministry now. I forgot it was removed. Guess he doesn't know who's gonna count it. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like your Deputy Prime Minister Moravian to answer the following questions in concrete terms. Is it true that you will raise taxes to 40% for entrepreneurs? [[Right.]] Is it true that you plan to increase VAT to 27%, as was done in Hungary? [[Up to 40.]] [[They'll pick it up.]] Will a linear PIT of 19% disappear ? Is it true that you want to eliminate the common taxation of spouses? [[Yes.]] [[Ricky, come on.]] Is it true that family benefits will disappear? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Is it true that the excise duty on used cars will be increased? [[Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, answer these questions, do not pretend to increase the amount free. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, instead of a good change, we have chaotic changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And expensive.]] [[Immoral.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u75	Thank you. And this time I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present an opinion on the report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act amending the Act Tax Ordination and other laws, prints no 1066 and 1070. High Izbo! The Senate amendments concern a project in which the ruling party duplicated the existing rules of deduction without respecting the provisions of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The amendments tabled by the Senate are an attempt to implement this judgment of 28 October 2015 on the correction of the tax reduction amount, such as to guarantee at least minimum existence. The amendments tabled by the Senate retain this minimum principle. Unfortunately, it must be said that the amendments tabled contain very many shortcomings. They make it extremely difficult to charge tax and deduct this amount free. They introduce five tax thresholds without uniform deductions and the application of progressive quotas does not maintain uniform dynamics. In principle, the tax reduction covers only earners, because even unemployment benefits will not qualify for tax reduction. Tax exemptions do not apply to pensioners, i.e. the most vulnerable, in many cases unable to cope. Like the promise of free drugs, this promise is also virtual. The financial implications of the amendments have not been determined at all. The Senate ignores this issue at all, ignores the matter at all, does not give a statement at all, does not respond to the financial consequences. At the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, the Minister, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, said that this would be a negative effect of PLN 1 billion. However, this is also questionable size, and contributions to the National Health Fund are in question at all. No compensation is foreseen for local governments... [[How much did PSL give?]] ...and that's probably the biggest mistake these amendments have made. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will submit an appropriate bill which will compensate for the income of local government units. [[And what did he do for eight years?]] As for 2017 - we are currently working on the budget - we will make an appropriate amendment. The justification for the Senate's amendments is very laconic, superficial and, as I stress, without any calculation of the financial implications for both the budget and the local government. The Act does not generally deliver on the promise of 8,000. tax-free zloty from the presidential project and repeated many times by the rulers. Members of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club will vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u77	Thank you, Member. And please take the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the report of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws, prints No. 969 and 1066. The implementation of electoral campaigns by the rulers is the basis for building citizens' confidence in a democratic state. The Senate's initiative should therefore be welcomed in order to deliver on the promise of an increase in the tax-free amount that Law and Justice and Presidential Candidate Andrzej Duda have made during recent electoral campaigns. This demand is extremely important for Poles, especially for those who earn low income, income below the so-called. the minimum existence established for a single-member holding. Aware of the budgetary implications of the increase in the tax-free amount, we expected a longer and substantive debate on the reform of the tax system and public expenditure. The Senate amendments on the amount of free introduced at the very end of the legislative process are very limited and practically prevent a deeper discussion on this subject. Nevertheless, the Free and Solidarnia Circle supports solutions that enhance social integrity and serve the idea of a solidarity state. This is how we read the purpose of the amendments adopted by the Senate of the Republic. This is not the promised 8,000. zł, however, in our opinion this is a step in the right direction. The Constitutional Tribunal held in its judgment of 28 October 2015 that the legislator, when shaping the tax scale, should protect the standard of living of people in order to prevent them from falling into poverty and social exclusion. In shaping the tax obligations of citizens, as the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, we must take into account the State's obligation to ensure that everyone has a minimum existence. This is also due to the moral command to take care of the subjectivity and dignity of every member of our national community. The introduction of a progressive mechanism for calculating the amount of free is a good compromise between the State's obligations to the poorest citizens and budgetary capacity to cover collective needs, which is of great importance in the current budgetary situation. However, it should also be pointed out to the negative side of the solution proposed by the Senate, which is a complicated algorithm for calculating the tax taking into account the amount free. We should strive to ensure that the tax system is simple and clear to every citizen. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the above reservations, Members of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will support the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Act amending the Act Tax Order and some other laws, judging them as beneficial from the point of view of social solidarity and the construction of the national community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u79	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Janusz Sanocki. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the law which creates the Sejm for citizens, for officials, should be simple, clear, understandable, and these amendments, this law is not, is extremely complicated. The algorithm is so complicated that it will cost a lot, it will bear socio-organization costs at every level, and the cost of collecting taxes cannot be overlooked. And for this reason, first of all, we should look at this law as unfortunately ill-written. The second issue concerns differentiation, because in fact here the tax-free amount is determined at the level of PLN 6600, or PLN 550 per month, but only for the poorest people who earn so much, i.e. de facto the government reaches the tax-free amount of those who earn more. The way he does it is incredibly complicated and suspicious that it is to hide this maneuver, to say: we give a tax-free amount, please, is 6600 PLN, and quietly finance it from the income of people earning a little more or more. This is how taxes are actually raised. It's just unfair, it's hiding intent and building such a system of certain mattality in public communication, because we're going to say: we have tax thresholds here, please, and we're not going to mention that more earners are being charged tax-free. The tax-free amount, I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, has its justification in the philosophy of finance, taxes, because this is the amount that man spends on his living. You can tax luxury goods, you can even agree - although it is contested - with the fact that there may be tax progression, i.e. that rich people can be taxed higher, but you cannot agree that we are taxing funds that everyone - and the poor, and the rich - spends on a slice of bread and a cup of milk. I cannot accept this as a Member and will vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u81	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will also speak as part of the unused time of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Using the time left for the Modern Club, I'd like to add a few things. First of all, Mr Tulayev, I am addressing Mr Sylvester Tulayev, please do not lie to Poles. Don't lie to the Poles about fixing the budget because you're just ruining it. Don't lie to the Poles about fixing the tax system... [[Of course we're fixing it.]] ...because you're just making it complicated. Simple thing: tax-free amount, clear and clear to all. You're making it so complicated today that all you're gonna do is create a field for conspiracy, abuse, and you're gonna make, like at 500+, that people are gonna go from full-time to part-time, and they're gonna do similar complications. But the worst part is that we still haven't heard what the cost of making this change will be and who it will cover. I've heard today that I can't count, but I wonder how the politicians of Law and Justice count. Minister: the new amount free will cover 3.5 million people. Senate: 2.8 Million. We know that 1.8 million is not coming out of the amount available today, so how is he going to benefit from it? Unimaginable. $5 million doesn't show taxes because deduction of family benefits and stuff like that checks out. Free amount, ladies and gentlemen, should be available to everyone. You promised this to the Poles, and today we hear that next year [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're gonna see how this works out, and at the very least you're gonna value the minimum of existence. That's not what you promised the Poles in the election campaign. [[And the term of office is almost over?]] Don't pretend you're fulfilling your election promises. Thank you. [[Maybe someone made a mistake in the report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u83	Thank you, Member. We have exhausted the list of people enrolled, so please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Paweł Gruza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to express my opinion to the government on the draft submitted yesterday at the Senate meeting. [[Is that clear?]] The government supports this amendment. In the opinion of the Government, the amendment completes the request for a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal last year. The amendment pursues the overarching objective of favouring the least earners - a social group that does not reach the minimum of existence - as regards the tax burden. Here were very hard words about motherhood. I think they're abuse. We make detailed calculations of the effects of this amendment, we operate on two sets of data: 2014 and 2015. It appears that around 3.5 million taxpayers, 20 million taxpayers, will neither gain nor lose, will lose to a very limited extent a certain tax advantage to the best earners, it is a group of about 450,000. the maximum extent of the damage to this tax advantage will affect the group of 250 000. Taxpayers, these are taxpayers who make 146 grand. gross zloty and higher. As regards the complexity of the system and the difficulty in calculating this tax, I would like to say, firstly, that we have a very complicated tax system. This is not the last year's or even the previous term of office, it is like an immanent part of our tax system and... [[Which means he needs to be more complicated.]] ...the government will work intensively towards simplifying both the collection system and the tax billing system. With regard to this from the perspective of the individual taxpayer, I would like to remind you that we have a system in place for the preliminary fulfilment of the tax return by the tax authorities. It is an imperfect system, but I hope that in this case it will apply and it will be checked that these tax thresholds, whether this amount is free, by calling it colloquially, are calculated. From the perspective of a single taxpayer, it will be without prejudice to the amount of administrative work involved in preparing the tax return. Back to the real dimension of this change - our calculations show that 1.5 to 2 million Rentists will benefit from this change. Moreover, we believe that the number of people who actually pay PIT will decrease by 1.5 million people. We therefore believe that this is an important relief and an important benefit for taxpayers. As far as the cost of this change is concerned, the maximum effect on the budget taking into account any behavioural behaviour of taxpayers that may lead to a decrease in budget revenue is up to PLN 1 billion. This is an effect that will be compensated for by other sealing activities, including in the area of PIT. We therefore believe that this is acceptable and to bear the cost for the budget and the public finance sector. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr Sławomir Nitras made a formal request. I hope... Excuse me, sir, because I have a formal motion here. I hope, Mr President, that this is a regulation proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u86	Mr. Marshal, thank you, and I give you a solemn word of honor that my vote will be to save the House's honor, not to offend in any way. I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u87	I hope it's by the book.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u88	...on a formal issue, how is it possible that the amendment was tabled and adopted in fact today in the Senate, tonight, and the government has already had time to calculate it. Because the Minister says you already have an impact calculation. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister to take the High House seriously. We're not a facade institution, and if you come up with a project on the last day, you eliminate the amount of free money, and you force us to accept it, don't say that you support a project that, in fact, Minister, we've prepared ourselves. Respect for the High House and respect for the High House should be shown and he says, "This is your amendment and it is you who are eliminating the amount of free taxpayers, the Sejm with this [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has nothing to do with us, not on our behalf. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u89	Thank you. However, I regret to say that this was not a formal application, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Please, Mr Tadeusz Cymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I feel obliged... I'd really like your attention for a moment. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] There is no better argument on how to use the opinion, and it is a credible opinion, the opposition Member. A few hours ago. not anyone else like Rafał Wójcikowski - I bow my head in front of the leader, very hardworking, very competent, really, your glory - very clearly, accurately presented the analysis. Yes, there are five zones: from zero... [[A millionaire.]] ...to 6600, from 6600 to 11, from 11 to 85, from 85 to 127 and over. Is that true or not? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal... [[This is the simplistic system.]] ...the current amount of the tax reduction of PLN 556 is left for the basis of the calculation of between 11 and 85 thousand, i.e. for 18 million citizens. [[Applause]] [[Everybody knows that.]] What kind of liquidation are you talking about? All of them will write 556 by March. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] Let's not do propaganda like that, please. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Let's not do that.]] On the other hand, the claim that we didn't give enough, since 6600, I know these tricks, because I've been working in this too for many years. Such propaganda is very easy to do. Maybe it's an imperfect bill, but she's really introducing... Now, watch out, one more thing - logic. We can't put our truths against our own truth. Let's make up our minds. Or there's a change and there's a transfer... They'll lose their self-government, as you say. If they lose, it means somebody's gonna win. So, what's it like? What's it like? Well, you can't hit us on both sides when things get out of hand, because it's ridiculous. This is a clear transfer, indeed, which has some effects. And finally, about fear. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, yes, I was talking about it myself. [[Oh, you'd be ashamed of yourself, Tadeusz.]] This is Minister Janczyk listening. There were concerns that citizens wouldn't go to court if we didn't do anything, and the change that we did was probably due to fear. What's wrong with fear? There's no life without fear. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Fear is simply a guarantee and a condition of life. There would be no fear in the world, no life. Remember that. And the Senate did very well, and the government agreed to what I thank you for. Mr President, the government has given inspiration, but the signature is the Marshal of the Senate. Someone's gonna say, "We know these numbers, Brunner." But remember, respect each other, we respect you, and you respect us, really. Inspiration, research material. For the record, as rapporteur, no one said: calculation, because the calculation would be: 948 thousand. 656. No, that's respect... [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] ...that's the difference, that's the estimation of the scale of the effect. And the scale is. No matter what we say about it, it's here, it's not right for me to say, like a bull, but it's clearly written. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Tadek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u91	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. High Izbo! I'm gonna announce a three-minute break, and after that break... [[Voice from the room: I wanted a formal motion...]] That's after the break, Member. Thank you. It's a three-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 09 h 14 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. At the 30th meeting, the Sejm did not vote: - on the application for rejection at first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes, - on the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Payment Services Act and certain other laws. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. At the 30th meeting, the Sejm did not carry out third readings: - a government draft law amending the law on support for rural development involving the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, - a government draft law against unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage in the marketing of agricultural and food products, - the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral settlements in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, as well as the Statute of that Bank, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970 and 23 November 1977, drawn up in Moscow on 18 December 1990, - the Government's draft law on ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Establishment and Activity of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, and the Statute of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990, drawn up at Warsaw on 25 November 2014. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the third reading of these draft laws. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - amending the Law on Hunting and amending the Law on Hunting Law, - on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in breach of the law. The designs are 1042 and 1056 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The project is print number 1047. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. The competent committees have submitted a report on the Commission's draft resolution on the proposal to establish an EU correction mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a financial solidarity mechanism. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has submitted a report on the Government's draft law on marine equipment. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, - to amend certain health and safety provisions of the service. The reports shall be printed in 1052 and 1069 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the law on the functioning of coal mining and the law on the amendment of the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, - amending the Energy Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 1012, 1011 and 1040 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 1065. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We will consider items on the agenda in the voting block. The High Sejm, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from the Poselski Club, has submitted a request for a break. Does the proposal continue? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Yes.]] He's holding the motion. Then I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the request to order an adjournment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. There were 164 votes against and 243 abstentions. The motion was rejected. We continue to consider item 1 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act and the Act amending the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. Questions are raised by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. Sorry, these aren't questions, they're just a formal conclusion. Formal conclusion by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister Glinski! [[We already know what he's gonna say.]] I am very pleased that you have expressed your opinion, which is shared by the majority of Polish society, on the level of public television under Jack Kurski's rule. [[Applause]] [[Not about that.]] High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 point 8 I request the withdrawal from the agenda of this meeting of the Sejm of the draft Law on Assembly, print No. 1044. Dear Members and Members of the PiS! We're supposed to have the Fourth Republic, we're going back to the PRL, the PRL-bis. It is unacceptable that the law on the basis of a democratic state, among which there is undoubtedly freedom to organise assembly and manifestation, should be conducted as a parliamentary project. Therefore, there will be neither consultation nor any opinions - quickly, preferably at night, we need to push through a law that will prevent NGOs from organising demonstrations that were won in 1989, and I would just like to remind you. You think you're gonna rule forever. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You are celebrating the year of the rule of law and justice, and we are celebrating it: only three more years of such tragic rule of law and justice. Mr Kaczyński is not here, but I would like to draw the attention of the Members who have prepared this bill, that it may turn out that this ladder, on which Mr Kaczyński speaks so beautifully, will be able to set up in three years' time only in his home garden in Żoliborz. It's just the way you make the law. [[Applause]] [[Come down now.]] The question is: Is this really the right you want? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Reliable?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u93	I won't be responsible for the government and the club, but I don't think so. [[Joy in the Chamber]] If I were to count your application as a formal application, I would remind you that your lips. Point 8 of this article reads - it is a change in the way discussions are conducted... We will consummate this in the vote on this project anyway. [[Let's not consume anything.]] I remind you, because at the moment following the formal proposal, I still need to remind you that the Sejm rejects the amendments of the Senate by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate proposes new rules for setting an amount reducing personal income tax. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. The questions are asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Would the Minister like that? No.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I understand that the Prime Minister is only ashamed to be in the courtroom with us, he's in the government room, and he's watching us on TV. [[Multiple responsibilities.]] Then I will address you, Prime Minister. In the previous session of the Sejm, you told the speaker that Poles, who are 60 years old and older, actually don't care about you at all, because the PiS government doesn't intend to build any silver... [[She didn't say that. Don't lie.]] ...economics. It was either arrogance or ignorance, but I'll leave the evaluation to you. [[But don't lie to me. She didn't say that.]] Today I'd like to ask, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] What are you gonna tell the people who make money... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]] ... 750 PLN per month and which in this bill... [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] ...thought you were wealthy enough not to raise them the amount of free money. You don't care about these people either? [[That's not true, read it.]] [[How much, Member?]] I suggest we go out and tell the truth. Please tell me you've run out of money, which is why in this bill you're clearing the amount free and raising taxes. [[Applause]] [[How much did you pay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u95	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just wondering, and I wanted to ask you if it didn't happen... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...by accident with some mistake. We have promised, also I, the citizens, a higher tax-free amount, and we present a tax free of quota. It will come to the first ever increase in the tax-free amount that de facto for citizens will mean an increase in these taxes. 'Cause who are these people, the mythical 3 million they're supposed to get on this raise that earns the minimum social 6600 a year? The Ministry of Finance gives an example of a photographer, Mr Maciej, who makes 10,000. per year. Find me one photographer in a country with a 16,000-dollar camera earns 10,000 a year. There are no such people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Let's not play dick with the citizens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A little honesty. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Chamber: What about Members?]] And Members have a tax-free amount of 30,000. [[That's not true, don't mistake...]] And this is a scandal, too, and we're waiting to unfreeze our project...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u97	Thank you. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u98	...laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u99	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Law and Justice Politicians! I'd finally like to hear what the finale of the free amount will be. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] in your performance, because as usual, we've been through at least four versions for a year, and I wonder how many more of them we're going to make by the end of this term of office of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that in the election campaign you started vocalizing by promising all Poles to increase the amount free to 8.5 thousand. You, Mr President, then the Prime Minister of the Exposé also confirmed that 100% This is the request that will be met during the first 100 days of government. Then we heard that you spent too much money and, unfortunately, there is no budget for it, so it will be introduced together with a single tax. Today you are proposing how malicious they laugh, an amount free of unemployment tax. This is something that has not yet been created in the economy, but you have the opportunity to introduce a unique, new way of accounting for the amount of free. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, my fundamental question is: When you realize your election promise and raise the tax-free amount for all Poles...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u101	Thank you, Member. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u102	...up to 8,5,000. Evil? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask this question: Is it true that over 3.5 million Poles will benefit from... [[That's not true.]] ...changes proposed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland? [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] I would like to ask: Is it true that 2 million pensioners will benefit from the changes proposed by the Senate of Poland? [[That's not true.]] I would like to ask, Minister: Is it true that people earning 1000 PLN per month will gain 265 PLN? [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] I would also like to ask: Is it true that people who receive a social pension of PLN 840 will gain PLN 132? [[That's not true either.]] I know that for you these are pennies, these are very small sums... [[You can't cheat math, man.]] ...but for 3.5 million Poles these are important amounts. And to the rapporteur, I still have a question: Is it true that... [[To school, to learn to count.]] ...the PO-PSL government actually frozen the tax-free amount by raising it by just 2 zlotys? And why the Civic Platform voted in favour of leaving this amount, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did she vote against these changes? [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u104	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting amendments 1 to 3, would like to raise his hand and press the button? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Resume.]] Where's the score? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: The system has crashed.]] 419 Members voted. The absolute majority is 210. 182 voted against - 221, with 16 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development in the framework of the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws (prints No 972, 1019 and 1019-A) - third reading. I ask Mr Mieczysław Miazga to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! During the second reading, all parliamentary clubs gave a positive opinion on the bill. One amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which was addressed to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. At its meeting on 16 November 2016, the Commission examined this amendment and unanimously recommended that the High House adopt it and the entire law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u106	Thank you very much. We will vote on this amendment first. In the only amendment to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Rural Development Support Act proposes to amend the provision setting out the conditions for granting aid to land areas. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 388 against - 1 and 26 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole, in print no. 1019, along with the amendment adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously adopted a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on Research Institutes (print No 995) - continuation. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start with the question: Is this another staff bill for Misiewicz? This project is a return to central control. It is the minister who will elect the directors of research institutes. You have to give up the competitions because they require the right qualifications, not the right connections. You've got it all figured out. We have a parliamentary project again, without consultation, without expert opinions. The ownership of state institutions by the PiS continues. [[We talked to people in the campaign.]] I wanted to ask you to reflect on the meaning of the proposed solutions under market economy conditions. Currently, we have 115 research institutes in Poland, which, thanks to their independence and scientific achievements, can compete boldly with technically developed research centres in other countries. Are we allowed to submit this work and potential to Misiewicz? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u108	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No. 995, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 200 voted against - 216, with two abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report on the draft within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No. 1065). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on this matter? Nobody volunteer, I'm shutting down... Actually, I'm not. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 1065, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 400 votes against - 9, with 8 abstentions. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: - the rules governing the management of state property, - Provisions introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, - on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, - amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on Pension Supply to Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. The designs are 1053, 1054, 1055, 1048 and 1061 respectively. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the first reading of these projects. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 1053. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on the rules for the management of state property, print 1053, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 220 votes against - 195, 3 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 1054. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law Rules introducing the Law on the Principles of State Property Management, print 1054, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. 220 voted against - 195, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print no. 1055. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government bill on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, print no.1055, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 413 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 217 against - 195. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the moment, Mrs Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club, is making a formal request. [[Oh, dear, dear...]] [[Ha, ha, ha!]] I share your view, Your Marshal... [[And trouble.]] ...but I must at the same time inform the High House that using the powers enshrined in the Article. 87. 2, a little bit, so to speak, replacing the government, I thought that this bill should have a European clause. The government should have given it, it didn't give it, I'm transmitting it... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] ... figuratively, of course, in a way, but I make a decision based on the relevant article. Mr Skurkiewicz, a proposal against the formal proposal. [[Yes.]] We will therefore vote in favour. If it was a motion for the club, I understand, but it's for the opposite club, it's a vote against. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. There were 169, against - 247, 3 Members abstained. The request was not accepted. We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 1048. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws, print No. 1048, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 218 voted against - 198, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 1061. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the government draft law on amending the Act on pension provision of police officers and other services mentioned earlier, print 1061, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 415 Members voted. The vote was 222, against - 97, with 96 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The groups of Members submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Law on Assembly, - Provisions introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and a law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The designs are 1044 and 1059 respectively. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to supplement the agenda with the first reading of these projects. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed with the vote on Draft Print Act No. 1044. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Assembly, print No. 1044, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 418. 218 voted against - 198, two Members abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. There's a formal conclusion. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club. [[Oh, dear, dear...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: A little respect for the Republican Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u109	High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request that the proceedings of the Sejm be postponed until an opinion is received... [[We voted.]] ... The National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court, on the Law Law introducing the Constitutional Tribunal Act. You have to call it by name. This is a law that puts PiS politicians under control over the Constitutional Tribunal. The date of publication of this law will be the last day of the effective functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. The piss deliberately made this runway with the law introductory regulations. It is intended to prevent the current tribunal from verifying the constitutionality of the provisions of all these three laws. Already a brief reading of this law indicates a number of non-constitutional provisions. In particular, Article. 16, which is unconstitutional, incompatible with the Constitution, with Article. 194. The draft, on the one hand, allows the President to fail his constitutional obligation to appoint the President of the Constitutional Tribunal from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly. On the other hand, it allows the President, with the agreement of the President of the Council of Ministers, to elect a provisional President of the Tribunal. This is a clear violation of the Constitution. Firstly, it is the duty of the President to appoint a President from among the candidates submitted. Article 194 clearly states: it calls, it is imperative, duty, commanding mode. The president has no other option. Secondly, the Constitution does not allow the appointment of a temporary President of the Tribunal to any extent. This constitutional regulation is exhaustive at this point and it follows that the Tribunal is governed by the President and replaced by the Vice-President. It is therefore necessary, before this item is placed on the agenda, to familiarise ourselves with the opinions of the constitutionalists and those appointed to it, so that we and the public are fully aware of what decisions are being taken in this Chamber. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the consequences for Polish citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u110	Thank you. A formal request for adjournment of the sitting has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. There were 167 votes against, 249 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs... Sorry, we still have to vote. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't voted yet. We proceed with the vote on the draft law from print no. 1059. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law Provisions introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 1059, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 419 Members voted. 221 voted against - 198, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. High Seym! The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion on the first reading of draft legislation on education reform. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion on the first reading of draft laws on the rules for the management of state property. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on committee reports: - on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws, - a draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, - ratification of the contract in print No 1018. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 53 hours 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 5 and 6 of the agenda: 5. First reading of the government draft Education Law (print no. 1030). 6. First reading of the government draft law Provisions introducing the Law of Education (Print No 1031). I ask the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska to present the justification for both draft laws. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parents love their children and pay taxes, so they want a good school. A school that provides excellent quality education, which not only tests, but raises, which guarantees safety and which gives satisfaction to the teacher and the joy of going to school just to the children. This is how the Educational Law was planned, so the introductory provisions were planned and systematic plans for the future are designed for the entire term of office. We want to improve the quality of education, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, very often in the media space you hear about international research, which shows that a 15-year-old boy plays well. We should be proud of that fact. It does recreate mathematics, read, have natural skills. Unfortunately, it's just a playback. The same international research clearly says that it can't solve problems, it doesn't work in a group, it can't apply a simple mathematical formula, it just doesn't like school. I do not know if you know, but the Polish student is the last in Europe if we measure his favor with the school and its acceptance. At the same time, the same international research you hear about in the media space, so often repeated, says unambiguously - the Polish teacher, although well educated, best educated in Europe, is not satisfied with his work. At the same time, as is also seen in international research, it is the one that is on the tail of Europe when it comes to the use of information technology. But how is he supposed to use this technology when it's just not at school? Several percent of schools after large, multimillion-dollar projects called the Digital School - only a dozen percent of schools - have rooms ready to actually be able to use broadband Internet for the 21st century. Improving the quality of the school is a modern school, where the broadband Internet will be. Together with Minister Streżyńska, we guarantee every educational institution within two years broadband Internet. At the same time, we say that in each class it is to be - as it has already been accepted - an active board so that the teacher can use these modern tools at any time. Besides, we spent tens of millions of zlotys on e-resources, commonly called e-handbooks. Where can I use them if this equipment isn't simply there? At the same time, we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the fact that general education must return. General education, subject education, again we talk about every subject - history, geography, biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics. I don't know if you remember where nature came from. For a simple reason. In international research there was no biology and chemistry - there was nature. Once again, the system had to submit to one international study. We want, ladies and gentlemen, to strengthen general education because the Polish student will learn a year longer. It is not true that general education will be shortened. I remind you, I regularly remind the European Commission that a six-year-old in Polish kindergarten is learning. Teachers happily took out letters, and if a five-year-old wants to use it, a four-year-old wants to learn, he also has the right to do so. Earlier, the teacher taught on secret sets. The parole board made sure that there was no education, and the teachers assumed certain cards, individual... [[Right.]] ...cards to actually be able to strengthen the child's desire for education. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we need to overthrow another half-truth, untruth, and lie: 80% The parents decided that the child was studying in kindergarten. I remind you: the Polish student will be 13 years old in general education. At the same time, we have kept our word because we always keep our word, especially when we tell local governments that we command, please, request, plan specific tasks. Since we said that a six-year-old should learn in kindergarten - that's what the law says - we have declared an educational subsidy. If you follow the plans and work on the draft budget, you can see that a six-year-old is in education aid, that's 4300. The parliamentary project concerning the amendment of the law on the income of local government units will go to the Polish Sejm. In time, a six-year-old will be covered by educational subsidies, which improves self-government indicators in a great way. I remind you that, as with 500+, when there was a specific task assigned to the municipality, specific money went after it, so also in the case of these tasks recorded in the bill, which I am talking about, money will also be designed. At the same time, we are talking about the fact that innovation appears in the law as a task of school. Finally - we have already done so, we will strengthen it - the teacher has the right to implement at any rhythm and pace the software base. He's only been reporting before. This is how we design the software bases you're going to see tomorrow... [[Tomorrow?]] ...as we said, we keep our word and so we established this rhythm with publishers who first appeared in the ministry all, not the chosen ones, and for the first time actually submitted, are not in the group writing the basics of the program, because it used to be that even though the basics were written, the publications were already in school, they offered certain textbooks. We are talking about the implementation of the curriculum basis, which will give every teacher in every lesson the opportunity in 20% of freedom and design work, in order to finish the school year with a school holiday, so that each of the lessons, from each subject, can show what he and the group, together with the class, did, what he experienced, what he discussed. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are making a great deal of effort and effort to build the studios concerned. You have heard of this when we discuss these changes in the system, it is a great regret that the workshops in question will actually disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, after many years of spending huge money, we have 27% of the studios concerned. junior high, only 18% of primary schools. Where to talk about experiencing, where to talk about developing, about the curiosity of the world? This is indeed a challenge, and this challenge will come back with the teaching. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about what parents and teachers are talking about, even in the media space, there is such regret that since there is no sixth grade exam, there is actually nothing to teach in the sixth grade. It's a definition of this system: we stop teaching for tests. The test will of course appear on the exam, but it will only be halfway through this exam. This will actually solve the problem, because it is necessary to respond to international research, which shows that this skill is not available to the Polish student. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, in the Education Law, you have solutions that will translate into a national programme at the end of June, a national plan for the professional improvement of teachers. You have effectively disqualified this professional improvement. Indeed, the teacher has a weak offer, and no one cares about this professional improvement. We are one of the few countries in Europe where we do not respond to the needs of the system or to the needs of teachers. He's coming back, ladies and gentlemen, 1%. to which the local government is obliged to provide funds for the professional improvement of teachers. You have to support the teacher. The teacher is aware that the school, which results from international research, is at such a stage that you have to be with your child that the civilization momentum is so huge that you have to keep up with your child and not only be a partner, but above all the master, who is also responsible for the digital world, this secure digital world that we start building at school. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen - this is the strengthening of general education, the teaching in question - parents want to stop spending thousands of PLN per year on tutoring. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the problem of general secondary school, it is the problem of middle school - attention - parents say that already the fourth grade of primary school. It is a result of yes, not a different design of a software basis, a textbook from which neither can learn a child nor does it help a parent. Therefore, it is indeed a tedious, long-term, patient investigation to a point where the student will actually have the satisfaction of his independence. Now very often it's not because of him that it's taken away from him. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the fact that in a Polish school where there is a huge amount of money spent on language education, it cannot be that it is still learning the language from the beginning. It is also a stage, that we interrupt education every 3 years, cause us to spend billions of zlotys in foreign languages, and parents spend money in parallel, paying for private lessons, writing to various language academys. Don't worry, because it also sounded in public space, bilingualism has been maintained. Sports classes, sports championships have been maintained. They're gonna be organized to take even more care of their children, so that they actually have a primary school from the first grade... I remind you that children in sports school from first grade, according to the regulation, can only be taught in specific fields, because otherwise children can be harmed. So sports schools will be able to be in teams, as they have so far, athletic championship schools. [[What are you talking about?]] In the Law of Education we have secured in terms of contact with heads of sports schools, schools with sports departments, every solution, every effort of those who have been working on their reputation for many years. We are strengthening this with the Law of Education. [[But it was in middle school.]] At the same time, we are talking about the fact that we want teachers to really be satisfied with their work so that they can be together with the student to improve themselves professionally. Please note, read in the Education Law, that we are very strengthening the centres of professional improvement. 430 institutions teach Polish teachers, on average by applying themselves. Look, you're just gonna have to be accredited. Ladies and gentlemen, this is due to the research, the research that you are referring to. Few of this, my biggest critics, the biggest critics of reform, with which the Law and Justice went to elections, indicate that I am right that there is no 4-year-old high school, that there is no vocational school, and primary school students and teachers say that their work does not matter, because middle school is a window to the world. No, ladies and gentlemen, the parent cares about the whole system. I want education to actually end in such a way that the graduate is ready to work or ready to study and, above all, to be able to learn throughout his life. Ladies and gentlemen, our student can't learn his whole life when he's an adult. We are in the absolute next tail of Europe's lifelong learning. This is the key to the challenges of civilization, this is also the key to education for our children when parents are aware that you have to learn throughout your life. [[You're the one who knows all about it.]] And here we are touching, ladies and gentlemen, another examined problem that has also sounded and which is written in the Education Law: small schools. Your previous governments have really depreciated the small school, and in fact you have been willing to get rid of it, sometimes from week to week, from month to month. This change is intended to strengthen the small school, almost 30% of schools have about 70 students. [[You're gonna pay for this.]] It's supposed to strengthen a small school because it's not just an educational center, it's a civilization center. This is the center, ladies and gentlemen. Deep research into adult lifelong learning makes it clear that we will then achieve results in adult education if we link this to small schools. This is a place where a grandmother or a parent learns where his child learns. I remind you, this rescued project of December 2015 about the Integrated Qualifications System. There's money that employers talk about, which employees need, because all investors, e.g. investmenters in Polish zones ask for qualifications. We need confirmation of qualifications, we need such organised vocational education. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, a small school is a place that is particularly important for the Ministry of Culture. That's where the money will be spent on modern libraries. I remember a few years ago, we were fighting for the library to stay at all. At the moment we are struggling with embarrassing and embarrassing results of reading in Poland. That's why this little school, every school that's been forgotten, which wasn't a window to the world, is supposed to be a window to the world. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 4-year-old high school, because that is a necessity, because we can only talk about the education of our citizens, because the last change in the basics - introduced actually from month to month, remind yourself of the dates - led to the fact that we have 4 year-old middle school, we finish the basics of junior high school in the first grade, and the high school is a year-and-a-half course preparing for Matura. [[That's the truth.]] And this is a big challenge for teachers who have a big problem with implementing these software bases, who actually have discomfort, because they are outstanding teachers preparing their students to study at the best universities. It bothers them that such a block and infantile basis of the program must be realized. Employers, ladies and gentlemen, speak clearly... [[It's gonna be new tomorrow, it's gonna be better.]] ... 40% employers immediately, tomorrow, next week, next month, needs workers, needs Polish workers. I would like to remind you that all activities of the Polish government, among others. Raising the minimum wage leads to the fact that the employee's time is approaching. It would be good for him to be a well-prepared young man. That's why we're talking about industry school. We are talking about this, ladies and gentlemen, that the programming bases must be flexible, quickly adapted, written with employers, that the employer will be able to be an examiner, so that the young person can practice, but also, above all, take the exams at the workplace. [[You want to shorten your general school.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are showing what a great opportunity, fashion and trend it should become, and we will strive to do so every week. We have been working for very many months for such a position of the industry school that you will be able to finish your second degree exam, please country, where the professional exam will be the one that is in the catalogue of extended subjects, which will give young people a chance to study at each university. This is really important for universities, because the number of students is actually very difficult to deal with than demographics. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, what we have taken care of, which clearly stems from the Education Law, which I hope, together with you in agreement, although discussing, in compromise, although sometimes having separate positions, we will implement for the peace of our children and for future generations. [[You're gonna burn in hell for this reform.]] We speak clearly of safety. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about reducing school circuits. That's why I'm surprised when someone says there's gonna be an empty building. There won't be any empty buildings. There will be reduced circuits, limited delivery, which parents care about. Moreover, the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber are ruthless, as in most cases, when they evaluate the previous governments of the Civic Platform and PSL. They're ruthless, because a third of the gimbuses shouldn't go to transport to participate in the delivery of their children. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we will work and try to keep an inventory of educational subsidies, because this is simply an archaic one that does not meet the challenges of civilization, to the challenges that we face. Not only does he not give up the work of teachers, he also causes conflicts in local governments. We're going to analyze the educational subsidy to point the weight there. Perhaps it will not be a weight, because it will be done by experts, also by local authorities. We will strive to be one-changed, ladies and gentlemen. It is a deep European shame that there are two or even 2.5 changes in the Polish school. Therefore, let us really create a school where children will be happy to stay. [[Applause]] Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are strengthening the educational role of the school by the way we look at the educator's tasks. To the basics of the program, as you will hear about tomorrow, these educational goals are returned. We are all responsible together, together with our teachers. You have to support your parent because it's the parent who raises his child, but there really must be rules for mathematics, physics, history, biology and chemistry. Everyone at school raises a child. Parents expect it, parents want it from the Polish school. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what arouses the most emotions, which has been perfectly described together with local government officials, is indeed closing down what happened in the system. You can no longer pretend and accept that there is no high school, that there is no vocational school, and that primary school is no window to the world. At the same time wise parents, wise councillors, also consolidating buildings, staff, public finances - I remind you that year by year dozens of thousands fewer children go to the system - they have already decided and most of the junior high schools are in schools, there are 2080 independent junior high schools. Therefore, please, that there are better results, there is indeed less aggression, there children feel safe. [[Where?]] Of course, there may even be preschool units, because there is a need for young people to be responsible for each other. [[A seven-year-old for a 15-year-old?]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about research that confirms our observations. Not only the international ones, because I already pointed to them, but also the Educational Research Institute, which of course do not recommend them. Ladies and gentlemen, spend 350 million on research, because this is what the Educational Research Institute has spent, not recommend and consider that all this should be hidden in the basement - no, please, this is not the responsibility of the Polish government. The system has been defined, described. We draw conclusions for the good of the children. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of middle school, this 2080 or middle school at all in teams - of course we need to look at it as a whole - that's 33% there less children, 12% the number of junior high schools has increased. These are, of course, non-public ones, those that run away from districting, from circuitry. I remind you that middle school was supposed to be a level playing field. In big cities as much as 25% Junior high school is a non-peripheral middle school, very often non-public - of course with all respect for non-public middle school. I remind you that in the whole six-year-old brawl - fortunately, parents in 80% decided that six-year-olds were learning in kindergartens - I was the only saver, the only advocate of non-public kindergartens, especially in Warsaw. They clearly declare that they are able to take up preschool education 42% children. Last, fresh data: three-year-olds, ladies and gentlemen, are 70%. Those indicators are probably going to go up by 10%. Most municipalities, most local governments, are prepared for the adoption of three-year-olds, especially since we have left a lot of flexibility. In general, we have already largely freed schools from bureaucracy, but it is about skills or ability to move on the basis of the programme, on the system. Therefore, in a year's time, in two years' time, local governments would simply eliminate the middle school simply in an uncontrollable way, because, I remind you, in the assumptions of Minister Handke... I try to speak with great respect about his assumptions, his work, because I assume that no one who assumes education reform wants to do anything wrong in the system, but it was really weird, because then there were four different reforms, including. about self-government reform, which was absolutely not in line with the middle school decision. They were supposed to be in general education schools - that's only a few percent, and that's actually in cities on the county's rights, where there's the same host body. Therefore, it is hard to imagine that local governments could have behaved differently than they did. I mean, they're actually mostly bands, and it's hard to tell the local government today that this is the education subsidy of the state that will be less than three years old. This concern for a six-year-old comes from responsibility for the responsibility of education. The aim is not to reduce but to increase the number of years of general education. Also, responsibility for self-government budgets causes that, during a transitional period, if the High House so decides, for 2 years they will have 10 years in education grants and will ultimately have nine, as they are at the moment. This is a concern for the budgets of local governments. I've had hundreds of meetings. I can only tell you about my recent experience. Of course, I will not fail to remind you how much was the discussion about the change that we are proposing at the moment. Namely, I visited four large towns, supporting and responding to invitations, also directly, or calming the situation. What I'm worried about, because it's to the detriment of children, parents and teachers, it's a simple misinformation attempt, misinformation with premeditated intent. Here's an example. President Czestochowa wrote me a letter, said he'd fire 200 teachers and lose his money. It turned out, ladies and gentlemen, because we have the same data in the educational information system... I propose that my predecessors read the Supreme Audit Chamber report on the educational information system. We're in the process of saving the system, which is connected with a lot of IT systems... [[But you have information through this.]] ...in all of Poland. And, ladies and gentlemen, what did it turn out to be? Turns out we're gonna need 39 extra jobs, and the government's value-added, because we've prepared the money and that money is... Don't raise it. Don't ironize it. At the moment, a team consisting of trade unions and the Ministry of Education and Local Government is working on comprehensive solutions and in connection with the subsidy the local government will have a dozen million more. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss it, it appears... It was in Płock, it was in Lublin and it was in Gorzów. Indeed, there was no place for teachers to lose their jobs and there was a profit everywhere - from 5 to 18 million, depending on the number of six-year-olds. I would also like to remind you that this six-year-old who is in 2016 is also paid whether he is provided for in education grants, whether in kindergarten or at school. And, ladies and gentlemen, we've counted... It is you who know exactly because it is in the justification. We have a responsibility to predict the financial consequences for 10 years. It's not always so clear, but we have to, we're bound by laws. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that several thousand new branches and several thousand teaching posts will arrive. Teacher, Polish teacher, be calm. It's a government that thinks about how to be with you in a dramatic demographic low and not only boost your role in transformation, but also take care of what's gonna happen in two in three years when the next thousand students are out of the system. [[You've calmed down.]] Therefore, before us - together, I hope, we will build this - finding out, and it also involves security, what is the penny of the teacher, psychologist, speech counselor, and it will be in every school. At the same time we are talking about professional advisors, about methodology. These are the rules that start with the Law of Education. At the same time, Polish parent, Polish teacher, Polish self-governmentman, you have 900 million to adapt... [[Where?]] ...for additional classes, to set up preparatory teams. That's what they're called. For the first time, the Polish system noticed a foreigner in the system and cares for him because he does not want him to waste the next years learning Polish language, without learning such subjects as mathematics, physics, biology. At the same time, there is money for professional advice, directly, ladies and gentlemen, for adjustment. And now, ladies and gentlemen, short math. Because there are 168 million in reserve, it is 0.4, and the vigilance of the Polish government, because it will be a 5-year process, a long-term process. I'm reminding you. We're gonna count and figure out what the money is. [[It's government money, not government money.]] This is the money of a Polish citizen, a Polish taxpayer. Therefore, we have to adapt - let's count so calmly - 2000 without 80 middle schools, so that they become independent primary schools so that there are smaller circuits. Note: there will be one resolution that will start the process. From September 1st, we begin a 5-year process. There will be no such thing in the system that here something will happen unambiguously, in the end, except that the VII will appear. class, IV and I with new programming bases. There will be five years for independent middle school with the same principal, with the same teachers, with the same potential, with the same skills, with the methods, to actually prepare to become I-VIII classes. Although, of course, we also see schools that will not have this cycle. Why? Because there were no children born in one year old in the municipalities concerned, and there will be no such class. This system is already seeing it, it's the law that's already seeing it, and it's the kind of school that's gonna take care of. [[You're gonna hold those little schools.]] And here we have, ladies and gentlemen, 2,000 gymnasiums. I checked myself, because of course, of course, local government officials in most cases have already counted it, even if it's from under a thick finger. Therefore, adjusting the room, so as to buy chairs there, benches, make small toilets, because I understand, we checked it out, every school has a plumbing... [[Wow! It's Gomulka who needs to be thanked.]] ...so you won't have to make big investments, you'll have to replace toilets, library bookshelves plus, of course, parts in the common room that will be adapted for young children. On average it is in two branches - so we estimate it - about 100,000. So 2,000 times 100,000. - it's really easy to count. Here we really need to refer to what was working in the media space, because I also promised you that I would refer to it, because really Polish teachers and Polish parents have the right to know everything, they have the right to ask, that's why the website is running, and that's why we have e-mails, voivodeships call us, talk to local government officials and curators, visitors are in every school. Each school also has an information package thanks to courtesy and agreement with the Polish Post. There were two more such magical, large numbers, self-government calculations. I think it is necessary to recall what the Local Government Act is like, what is the participation in PIT, CIT of local governments in terms of citizens' taxes, and that education subsidy is not a government tax for local government. The educational subsidy is responsible for children and teachers, software bases, textbooks, but of course the body running this building, equipment, heating. Indeed, here we must show that we are together, and together we will if we trust each other. Two numbers, the magical numbers that appeared in the media space. Here the local governments spent PLN 140 billion on middle school. Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 140 billion over 17 years is simply a chapter in the budget of the state, which is called middle school and special middle school, meaning it doesn't matter if they would or wouldn't be middle school, it would just be called a different chapter. This is simply the sum of the amount of education subsidies allocated over 17 years to children in this age range. This is the first amount and the first magic number. Two: 8 billion spent on investments. Ladies and gentlemen, this is simple math. Divide 8 billion over 17 years - we have a few hundred million in a year. Divide it into a few thousand municipalities. Look at the amount of this investment per year. And these aren't middle-school investments. These are just investments in education. Very well, the local government cares and citizens who see how the local government cares about Polish education, about school, actually repays, simply chooses such voivodships, mayors, presidents, and they fully deserve it, because they can so care, so invest in school. They have a job to do. This is how it is described in the Local Government Act, in the Education System Act. And one more number. I forgot about her, I said two. Sorry, there's another three. Here is 1 billion PLN will be taken from local government because there will be no 1st grade junior high school and there will be VII. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true. It is one sentence and two weights, two percentages that assume that the yearbook, which in 2017/2018 should appear in the first grade of junior high school, will simply pack up and leave. This yearbook is. This yearbook is also better paid, because a child in primary school is minimal, but nevertheless, a little more money, not very big, but a little bigger. Now, ladies and gentlemen, notice, because this is repeated too, we have to collide with it, I have to repeat it, because it is simply not true that something is happening on the knee, quickly, without consultation, without debate, without preparation. Since February we have been discussing all over Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone could sign up for the debate. Anyone could have held a debate. I predicted it, I said it at every press conference, every meeting in the next local government and every other voivodeship meeting. It was tens of thousands of people, several hundred meetings. The curators themselves, ladies and gentlemen, have made these meetings 177 or 160. I'm afraid to use very precise numbers, so I'm going to talk around so I don't get disciplined later that I'm wrong about something. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, indeed since February, patiently: on Saturday, experts worked on Sunday. Perhaps not everyone thought they were going to analyze the basics of the program. They analyzed the software bases so that very quickly, but very precisely they could write the software bases. Tomorrow we will present them to you and show you how much more we will socialize. At the same time, I remind you that there have been meetings of parents, parents' advice. Here, in the column room, youth meetings were held with a great pump. In addition, local government officials, pedagogical councils met with proposals that really define changes in the Law of Education, to deliver to the Ministry of Education. Therefore, please, that we were still preparing for a change of system, the most dramatic was of course everything that was happening in December, because it was necessary to take care of European money, not to lose money, to settle all the projects, although some with a big twitch of heart I signed, but just in case I called the Supreme Board of Control for e-resources and e-handbook to actually verify how this was going because it was impossible to be responsible for the project when it was only 2 weeks away. At the same time, I remind you of what happened in the system, how peaceful and safe it is at the moment at school. There are no card hours. I have promised monitoring and now you will have, thanks to Members, an amendment on Article. 42, because it turned out - and monitoring, so it is with every management - that there was indeed some strange training that showed how to circumvent this provision, so we will strengthen it so that there is no freedom and ambiguity. Then we owe the teachers. Let me remind you that we gave up the test after sixth grade, there's no test. Revocation from Matura is what we should give - from the results of Matura to the District Examination Board - to young citizens who are to learn this maturity. The usual registration of the work from which you appeal, from evaluation - via mobile phone. The disciplinary committee - strengthening the role of guardian and here is a continuation. Here, too, we have noticed trade unions in the Law of Education, which was not to be in your time. We're very good at talking to relationships. There have been several dozen meetings with trade unions... [[With voivodship governments.]] ...especially in the Ministry of Education, but also in the Council of Dialogue. Let me remind you that we're on a team working on the teacher's salary. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat one more thing or remind you of what also sounds like in your speeches, namely that there will be some problem. with double yearbook in 2019 It won't be, ladies and gentlemen. It is so dramatic than demographic that there will be no problem. Six years ago, it was one year old. Since we have full data in the educational information system, including the rooms that are in individual schools, we can say in a very responsible way that this is not true. One more thing, because as I promised you, I want to eliminate your concerns that the money that has been spent on building junior high schools will be lost. They're not gone. The European Commission is not interested in what the training phase is, it is simply supposed to be an educational institution. Moreover, in the previous financial perspective, many presidents have eliminated schools, e.g. This was the case in Wałbrzych, where European money was spent, but because the President declared that there would be an educational institution there, he did not really have to return the money. Ladies and gentlemen, my task, our task, is to ensure that the parent gives the child to a safe and good school to support the teacher, to make it clear that there will be no layoffs in relation to the changes. The account and the proof. That's what you said when you were six years old, you were supposed to be fired, and you're probably still saying to this day that... [[Voice from the room: 7,000.]] ...yes, 7,000 were to be released. No, ma'am, it's been restored or there's room for a thousand employees. I invite you to analyze the educational information system. Therefore, I ask you that we care about a certain student, as do you, like parents, the student is to have a few of the most basic competences. She's supposed to be a math teacher. Look, it doesn't bother you, it doesn't bother you, it's not an alarm to you that a student in an international study plays the math well, and then in three years, 20%. Doesn't the students give basic math? It's terrifying. And we all have to lean on that, because we all have kids, he went to school, he knows what this school is for. So we're talking about competences such as mathematics, foreign language, computer science - computer science in a form agreed with experts. We are agreed on how many lessons we will learn, but first of all we are talking about the fact that this computer science is to be in every lesson, not on the subject of computer science only and exclusively, because there is indeed a civilization challenge for equipment to appear there to measure the 21st century. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, of course, about the Polish language, because you need to know your culture. He won't answer or participate in contemporary culture if you don't know the history of literature. It is difficult to understand the Polish contemporary theatre, when, for example. You don't know the evolution of drama at all, from tragedy to romantic drama or symbolic drama. [[Or what happened in Silk.]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about reading, about the fact that we will indeed be strengthening this reading with various projects, for which there is, of course, money, but also through programming bases and reading to children at school. Therefore, such programming bases for classes I-III. I think that you will be satisfied, because there are not only modern basics, not only reading, but also the basics of programming and playing chess, because that is what is supposed to strengthen mathematics. [[Is there anything about chess in this bill?]] This was also the result of the research, sir, but no one wondered how it could have been implemented. And we're talking, ladies and gentlemen, about history. There will be no future, no community, no country without knowledge of history. That is why we want to talk about it with respect, giving freedom of discussion. We want to talk with you - because I hope that we will finally stand to do it together - to discuss, write, finish, to complete it. Perhaps you have some ideas, because I have not yet received any amendments from you or any speeches that would actually affect the Law of Education. It's worth it. It is worth it for a Polish student, Polish parent and teacher. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u112	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Marzena Machalek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is a real honor for me to recommend draft laws that will fix the Polish school. These billing projects will not only fix the Polish school, but are also an important step in repairing the Education Law. That's very important, too. [[Applause]] Draft laws - Educational law and law implementing Educational law are the key to the future of young Poles, they are the key to the future and development of Poland. Maybe it's truism. Maybe it's cliché. Many politicians say that education is important for the future of the country, important for the future of Poles. But what are the facts? You destroyed the Polish school, destroyed the Polish education system. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, yeah, the ruin of New Salt.]] You destroyed the future of young Poles. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] You put the schools at risk of uncontrollable liquidation by eliminating the probation officer's veto, and the school's... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You're talking about teachers, they're listening to you.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] Your angry attack is unauthorized. You know exactly what bad changes you've made at the Polish school. Your former minister isn't even shadows in your office. You know how you destroyed the Polish school. [[Applause]] [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: But you have the middle school ministers.]] At the moment we know very well that repairing the Polish school is necessary. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I think personal culture is also necessary. Repair of the Polish school is necessary and we do not evade this repair. I would like to say that there has been a long-standing discussion among law and justice experts and among law and justice policy makers related to education, a few years before we decided that we would restore general education in four years of general education, [[Applause]] that we will repair, lead out of the collapse of Polish vocational schools, where after vocational school 40% The students are unemployed, and after the tech school, 30%. Those are the facts. [[What's unemployment like?]] That's the facts, that's how they trained vocational schools in your day, unfortunately. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What country do you live in?]] You're not gonna scream those facts because it's true. I would like to say that the reform that is being presented today has been well thought out and well prepared. I recalled: the discussion, and at the moment, for more than a year, work has been underway on this reform. 2017 is the first step in this reform. There will be no first grade junior high, these children will remain in primary school, which is obvious that this is an evolutionary change. The first Matura in the new system will take place in 2023, so it will take 6 years to implement the change. What's the rush? What is important is that we create a coherent system of education and education and that is why we strengthen primary schools. We are rebuilding - what I said - your disassembled general education schools and restoring general education. We are bringing vocational education out of collapse, creating professional schools, which will consist of two degrees. Young people after this school will indeed be prepared for work and will also have a chance to continue training. We're restoring State oversight of the education, the supervision you've removed from. You've led me to believe that it was possible to uncontrollablely eliminate schools, small schools. You should be ashamed of yourselves for that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] And now the question that often repeats: Why should junior high be extinguished? Unfortunately, these are the facts that 60% Junior high schools are together with primary schools and are basically likened to primary education. These are facts. It can be said that middle school did not take part in the Polish system, and those who operate alone, very often have problems with the recruitment of students. Besides, after the rain, there was a social gymnasium because parents were dissatisfied with what was going on in these schools. [[How did Mr Kaczyński vote?]] I do not question the work of teachers, the hard work of teachers in junior high, but it is known that they were difficult schools and they are difficult schools for students and teachers. And unfortunately, what was most important in 1999 was the beginning of middle school, but they did not fulfil their primary role, i.e. they did not equal opportunities, but led to the segregation of pupils, to the division of pupils into better and worse ones, and we do not want to agree to that. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[You're gonna slip on it.]] And now another fact that needs to be straightened out. For this reform, as the Minister has confirmed, financial resources are prepared. 1.5 billion - a subsidy for 6-year-old children, whether in school or in kindergarten, and almost 500 million in the first stage for the preparation of schools, which, as has already been said precisely, in many cases need, regardless of the reform, the workshops concerned, which simply do not exist. In junior high... Not much, not more than 25% Junior high school's got the science labs. It's a shame. You should just explain yourself out of this. I want to thank you very much here. I address Minister Zalewska. You've taken on a very big challenge, and I know how hard you've worked. I would like to stress that you have also taken on the great difficulty of talking, discussing with many different environments that have different rations and different interests. This was a difficult task, and what needs to be stressed is that most of the demands of trade unions have actually been included in the draft laws. We need to remind you what the discussion was like in your day. You threw millions of Poles who disagreed with your educational changes into the basket without scruples. [[The voice from the hall: Elbanovsky for this...]] You have no right to this assault today. You took that right from yourself. When we gave freedom to Poles when it comes to six-year-olds, they chose the opposite of what you wanted, 80%. Unfortunately, today you haven't learned anything from it. You're still manipulating public opinion. You're still trying to rebel your parents against changes in education. It's not enough, at secret meetings with your local government officials, you're trying to get these self-governments to sabotage, boycott reform. This is unacceptable. Warsaw is a clear example of this. Yesterday I had a meeting with Warsaw local government officials who said that in their districts this prepared education reform is a great hope for a better school... [[It's the PiS self-government guys.]] ...that the school would be closer to the student, that they would be able to hire more teachers, teachers of the subjects. You're trying to compromise the reform before it's implemented. You're freaking teachers out. It's not gonna be the same when it comes to school age. And now I want to say that I am convinced, after the number of teachers protesting, that the overwhelming, crushing majority of teachers are looking forward to this reform and, I think, wants a good school and a safe job for themselves. Today he tries to intimidate the politicians of Law and Justice. Mr. Sławomir the defender, head of the NSA, sued me, but not just me, to court. But for what? For exposing the truth? For showing hypocrisy? In 1999, Mr Bronisz protests dramatically against junior high schools, while in 2009 he does not protest against taking competence and the fact that school was allowed to disappear uncontrolledly. In 2015, he stood side by side with the United Left, and the United Left - these are the facts, please check on the website - had in its program the liquidation of junior high schools. Maybe Mr. Defendant should have read this program earlier. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]] Today, Mr. Defender stands side by side with the CODE and protests against everything the Law and Justice propose. Today I am convinced that teachers from the Polish Teachers' Association are not convinced that they have signed up for the CODE. Above all, he should explain that he is protesting a reform that saves teachers' jobs. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are deeply aware of the responsibility for introducing this necessary, necessary, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not an easy change, though. We know that if we did not introduce it, there would be a further collapse of Polish education, and thus - taking away the chance of Polish students for a good school and a better future. The choice is simple: vote for a better fate of young people, vote for a better Poland, vote for a better school. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The election's over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u114	Thank you, Member, for taking the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There has been a change behind the Presidency table, but it may not have been noticed by the Member, standing behind me, and I therefore put it on the back of my head. [[Hello, Marshal.]] And now I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Szumilas, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say, once again, I have listened to the justification of the bill that led me to wonder... [[You have to be ready for anything.]] ...which shows that either the Minister lives in parallel reality and does not know the Polish education system, or simply manipulates information and lies. [[Applause]] Well, Minister, learning a foreign language in schools is mandatory since the first grade and it is an obligation to continue learning a foreign language. [[Applause]] It's already in the education system. Junior students today have an obligation to carry out educational projects, and you discover America and say that this is the change. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Minister, today's programming base is so designed that the teacher has 20% of the time to have his own well-thought-out, prepared plan. You're bullshitting people. [[Applause]] You say something that is already in the education system, manipulating people, does not refer to what you really want to do. This is an outrage. [[It's not the Ministry of Education, it's the blackouts.]] It's something that... In the Polish education system we probably have not dealt with such a thing so far. [[Applause]] I'm very sorry, but you're the first teacher in this country and what you want to teach children, young people... [[Lies.]] ...in these reformed schools? Manipulation? Lies? About not being true? [[Applause]] Building the world on the foundations that you destroyed? It's just a scandal. It's something that hasn't happened in the education system yet. When you started your crusade against junior high school, you started by referring to the opinion of scientists and researchers who allegedly opted for the liquidation of junior high schools, and you referred to the position of rectors of universities who allegedly supported the proposed changes. What are the facts? The media, the teachers, the researchers have already lied about it. Ninety-nine representatives of university institutions involved in Polish didactics wrote to you that they criticize the rush, lack of actual consultation and fear that the most important educational ideas developed after 1989 were lost. Solidars with children and teachers - another letter... [[And Elbanovsky's two bubbles.]] ...signed by 80 academic professors from all over the country. The signatory of this letter speaks directly about the dictatorship and the reprehensible recklessness of the Minister of Education and says that we will have encores in the school of Polish People's Republic and children will be taught hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: No!]] Professor Herczyński, whose research or article you refer to, arguing the necessity of liquidation of junior high schools, says simply: No one asked me. And when asked by a journalist whether to eliminate middle school, she answers hard: No. [[Applause]] He answers and adds: We do not think that, nor in the article that the Minister refers to, there are no such recommendations. The Minister of Education has repeatedly said that the rectors are in favour of reform. Did you ask the Minister for an opinion from the General Council of Science and Higher Education? Has the Minister asked the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland for an opinion on this matter? No. Out of fear. [[Applause]] You're scared. Because the rectors in the letters themselves, on their own initiative opinion of the law, say that such a crazy pace of reform has not yet seen and doubt their positive effect. And Professor Jan Szmidt, the rector of the Warsaw University of Technology, who is the chairman of all the rectors, said: We share the view that revolutionary changes in the education system introduced at such a rate will not have a positive impact on the level of recruits. So what you're saying is that a better graduate in the opinion of professors, rectors... [[I'm in a bunch of kamasha.]] ...is a false argument. Another environment supposed to support education reform, today from this speaker you said - local governments. Well, at the beginning of September, the education committee first received a proposal signed by six local unions... [[Local government corporations.]] ...representing villages, small towns, big cities, urban agglomerations... [[And Platform activists.]] ...and all these self-governments wrote that they oppose education reform, that they are not prepared... [[Everyone's like one husband.]] ...that money is wasted that has been spent on a well-functioning system. And now these cities that the Minister is supposed to drive to. Well, Kraków was supposed to be a model for other local governments, and he died. He died when he showed the school network. When their parents saw that their children like furniture would be moved from school to school, that it was actually unknown whether this school was middle school, kindergarten or primary school, they began to rebel. Minister, this is a foretaste of what will happen in local governments since January, in all cities, towns and villages. Building a new school network is a conflict built in the local government. And the teachers... Oh, it's about Czestochowa, because it fell here - that Czestochowa, that you convinced that the president saw that there were no teachers fired. But why, Minister, the President, at an official meeting with the voivodship, demanded that the minister cease to distribute this lying information... [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Liar!]] And he said that if you don't stop doing that, he's gonna take legal action? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Liar!]] Minister, please ask [[Applause]] Silesian voivodeship, if you haven't told me that yet. [[Bravo!]] Teachers - ironically, your clubmate spoke of protesting teachers. Have any of you seen such a protest by teachers in the last 25 years? [[Voice from the room: No.]] 35,000. teachers, parents, local government officials... [[They were bigger. Against changing the Platform.]] ...come to Warsaw, and the Minister disrespectfully says it wasn't them. [[Voice from the room: You haven't met...]] Minister... [[Voice from the room: You didn't go out to them.]] ...those teachers who came to Warsaw... [[You haven't met them. Shame.]] ...built a Polish education system for 25 years, built a middle school. They're the people who helped our junior high students succeed. They are the ones who made Poland proud of education. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...that in the PISA research we are at the forefront of Europe that our middle school students do not give way to the Finns. And today it turns out that our 10-year-olds... [[They can't pass math.]] ...also caught up with the Finns, they're also at the forefront of Europe. [[Applause]] And why? [[Bravo!]] Because we moved letter teaching to the first grade of primary school. And read the expert report. And you turn it around, you sentence your children to not succeed in education, to study in unprepared schools... [[Disgraceful!]] ...no physical and chemical studios, no money. Mythical 900 billion PLN - show them. [[Voices from the hall: Million.]] Millions, yes, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] [[That's why we have to eliminate...]] 900 million zlotys, right? Let me see them. The educational subsidy together with the grant in 2016 amounts to PLN 43 100 million, and PLN 200 million for 2017. Where's the $900 million? Where's the $900 million? [[Applause]] [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] It's the virtual money that the Minister is talking about, which is not spent on the state budget that you're soaping your parents' eyes with, but you're not gonna wash your eyes off to local governments that can count. I have a theory. A few more such speeches by the Minister, and the sovereign will say: I do not want any reform. Because actually it used to be that people thought that something had to be changed in the system, and maybe we need to think about the future of middle school, and today the supporters of the elimination of middle school are less - 42% of society is against it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] liquidation of junior high schools, and only 39% after liquidation. Another survey from yesterday says 48% Poles and Poles want to postpone the change by at least one year, and 31% supports its introduction within the deadline proposed by the Government. I, Minister, will make it easier for you to face this reform. I will apply for the rejection of both draft laws at first reading. [[Applause]] We're gonna vote on it. But if you don't take this opportunity, we'll say, "I'm checking." We'll file a request for a public hearing at the committee meeting so you can listen to the sovereign... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] ...and not just talk about the Sovereign you're listening to. And I advise you on behalf of the club, but also on behalf of parents, teachers and local government officials... Yesterday I was at a meeting, there were 200 people in the gym...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u116	Member, please move towards completion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u117	...people were determined. Minister, withdraw from these changes, do not harm Polish children. [[Applause]] You're not gonna lose in the polls. We're gonna save... [[Why are you so worried about our polls?]] ...or build, change the Polish school...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u118	I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u119	...without a revolution, without ruining education. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u120	...in writing. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. And on behalf of the Kukiz Club15...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u121	Your marshal, one sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u123	One sentence, because I was so shocked by the Minister's speech... [[And confused.]] I forgot to show you the prop I brought. Well, that's the bill. I printed a seym print, 484 pages. 117 laws are being changed, and the PiS wants to do it in two weeks. [[Applause]] [[Scandal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u124	And now Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u125	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! Firstly, the very good justification of the Minister, although I do not fully agree with the part or the whole of this speech. Very good speech by Minister Shumilas. But don't take Mr Częstochowa's words too seriously, because I'm a parliamentarians from this town, [[Applause]] for two reasons. Hurry up. First of all, from the so-called. The gazelle program was purchased 40 MPK buses and as many as 20 and 30 of them either burns or is closed. [[Voice in the O.R. - Out of service?]] And second of all... And here, unfortunately, towards the Platform, because, ladies and gentlemen, you have not responded. [[But we're not discussing the Platform Act right now.]] Wait a minute. SLD and Platform rule in Częstochowa. Because he didn't respond to a man you know personally. And I can point that man out here. But because he is a member of the Civic Platform, nobody in Częstochowa reacted, just this president of the city, to the fact that this gentleman, a member of the Civic Platform, made 400 m2. ... [[Are we talking about the president or the reform?]] [[Voice from the room: Privately...]] No, 400 square feet of school and no one... And this is such a phenomenal president. So that carefully praised the president of the city of Częstochowa. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you... Also, please take an interest in education in Częstochowa, because I probably already sent two prosecutors' reports on education in Częstochowa. [[Records.]] Okay, okay. What determines the quality of education? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a division of six, three and three - that is, a high school that actually became a preparatory course for the Matura, of which there is no doubt, changed to a model of eight plus four. It determines the quality of the teaching staff. This one won't be divided. They decide good textbooks. I was surprised to see you guys moving the information of the rectors. Ladies and gentlemen, rectors and academic teachers have been showing regress in general education for over 15 years, and it is not only their own students who have to adapt in their first year to be able to study. These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. Or the reason is the idiotic idea of scholasticization, so that half of the population has a higher education, but with such results that 30% is the minimum, as much as 20.25% It doesn't give the M.A., and it's completely stupid ideas that everyone has to have a M.A., which is absurd, or it's just a failure that comes from this system. Good education also builds freedom in the implementation of the programme basis. Indeed, it is at 20% at the moment, but there is more to it than that, freedom in the construction of programmes, the implementation of the programme base. Ladies and gentlemen, I will always argue that the best education is education, perhaps not the best, but competitive education to the public, i.e. non-public education, which should be supported by a bon, an educational bon. Until we introduce real competitiveness, you will not have good education and will improve it at probation levels, supervisory authorities and there will be no big change. What am I, Minister, an opponent? The speed of making these changes and Kukiz Club very clearly shows that this speed is deadly. Many people are really afraid of these changes. I know that the end of the programme, the end of the reform is 2023. Nevertheless, it is fast. Reform is needed, reform is undoubtedly needed. Almost 50% of parents say junior high should be eliminated, but... [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] ...you have to remember that they also have great added value. We also need to look into it. This speed scares me without a doubt. A lot of local governments don't know what to do. If the Minister keeps his word and shows the money, then of course you can be calm. I don't think it's gonna be that easy. Ladies and gentlemen! I say you should ask the citizens. If we have such a huge problem, and this is a problem that really raises huge social problems, then we, ladies and gentlemen, should refer, under the 125th Article of the Constitution, to a referendum, i.e. citizens. Let them decide whether or not they decide to reform such a reform, and at least remove it by 3 years. And this is the official position of the Kukiz Club. There are undoubtedly and there will be problems with programs, with books. God bless you for a year. It's a Sisyphus job, but maybe you'll have such specialists. There will be fired teachers, and in the project it clearly sounded. Since some schools... that's the problem, schools are very much, unfortunately, controlled by the mobs and very often the mobs implement their political preferences there, so very many teachers who have so far been inconsistent with the policies of the mob, the mayor or the president will probably not find a job. There will also be building problems of course. If you're talking about the pace that we're going to finish the procession by 16 December, it's almost 2, 3 weeks to do the whole reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that it is very positive that we are going back to industry schools, but that they should not become obsolete primary and vocational schools, but that they should become actual professional schools where we have a translation into industry, into companies that are involved and have dedicated classes. I don't see how many of these teachers' redundancies are going to be, what is the cost of the teacher's briefings, and finally the transition to a closed state. It's quite important money, because the state is closed for six months, a six-month briefing, so 12 months. Probably a lot of teachers will benefit from what we call a vacation to save their health. Probably. Rather, let us use the reform to determine that there should be 20 and 25 people in the school ward. Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, we should finally consider, because the Minister spoke of changeability, seriously considering finally introducing an obligation to work in a given institution. I know that teachers work very hard, I was a teacher myself, and I hope so, but, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that many problems will finally solve the functioning of teachers from hours. 8 to 8 a.m. 15 or 15.30 in school, the fluidity of changing rooms, ladies and gentlemen, and as a result, perhaps there will be no such change. And at the same time, the traditional division of 18.22, it's obvious. Finally, I would like to make it clear that in public schools we should ban work for pensioners. I am very sorry, of course this does not apply to non-public, private, social schools that we only dream of, but we must finally say that those who have entered retirement age should be banned, an absolute ban on working after retirement age, in order to open up a career path for young teachers. Unfortunately, it happens, and these are again examples of Częstochowa, that if someone gets involved with this president, coalition and unfortunately partially supporting the PiS, then, ladies and gentlemen, they receive such opportunities. I had a councilwoman who wasn't only a councilwoman, she got her pension, she had some extras at school. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to some absurdity. We do not open competitions for young teachers, but when you are a friend of the rabbit, and with a party card double, then you act in the municipality. Even at 68, 67 years old. Such examples can be shown from Czestochowa. [[Voice from the room: Impossible.]] Perhaps, ladies and gentlemen. Possibly. When you finally look at the municipalities, what you often do in the municipalities as political parties, unfortunately very often coherently, either you don't drive around these municipalities, or you don't look at what it looks like. Go to the communes. You'll see what's going on out there. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say. If I get a substantive opinion... [[Which municipalities were you in?]] ...I understand you can't handle the pressure. Don't drink your coffee. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Which one is it?]] ...I'll admit that... I'm used to these fights because I'm sitting here and the level of speech of some of the Platform's parliamentarians... [[But don't bother.]] ...is really incredibly short. [[Your marshal, because they're bothering you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I? Can I finish? You're welcome. We have an opinion, Minister, today, I don't know if it's the Sejm's fault - at 12:30, 13. Well, it's pretty late to get opinions like that. This is one of three binding opinions, except for the trade unions, which were six. Indeed, we should have received such documents much earlier. So, in summary, this unrealistic term is very dangerous. Education will change when we introduce an education voucher. Otherwise, you're just gonna be throwing central planning around, how you're gonna make it. Although I must admit, most of you sitting here in the courtroom are graduates of schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] this 8+4 mode. [[So what?]] Of course, there are also some, as you pointed out, junior high graduates. These are all young messengers. There's only one person in this room who graduated from both 8-year-old primary school and 4-year-old middle school. And this is Mr Richard Petru. But he's special, right? [[Joy in the Chamber]] This is an outstanding character in this room. I understand I still have a little time. [[Voice from the room: No, no.]] Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to finally consider a serious assessment of the teacher. If a person - I am talking about public schools, this problem has long been resolved at universities - benefits from the privilege of protection and is not a public servant, such as a public officer, because he is an employee of a local school, we must at last require an external evaluation of this person as a teacher. Why? Now I'm going to put the most important question, which one of you did, and the other one you will never dare to do. One of the biggest problems of the Polish school is the Teacher's Card, which unfortunately causes such situations that it is not entirely possible to fire a weak teacher, and also cannot promote a good teacher. And that's one of the clou. Answer the question of how the local authorities have problems with the Teacher's Charter. Nevertheless, we will, of course, vote in favour of the government's proposal to go to committee at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u126	Thank you for speaking on behalf of the club. And now, please, on behalf of the Club, the Modern Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! There is much to do in Poland, but there are areas of life in which this work needs to be directed particularly calmly and carefully. Especially children deserve our peace, our maturity and knowledge of how certain things need to be changed. You just can't experiment on kids. Besides, sometimes it's really worth fixing, not tearing it down. Yeah, we want another school. Yes, we see the shortcomings of the Polish school. Yes, we want a school that is more friendly, more practical, better developed creative skills, interpersonal skills such as group work or communication skills. But you don't have to destroy middle school for that. In fact, a lot of junior high schools are already schools that develop such skills, and they can still be repaired. With each reform, two things should be considered - what are the costs of the reform and what are the benefits. In this case, we have a reform where no one has really presented us what the benefits are, while we all see the costs - these will be costs for children, these will be costs for local governments, these will be costs for teachers. Looking at the set of two laws that have been submitted to us, you can see that there are two problems to be addressed. One is the direction of change and the other is the style in which they are made. The direction of change. Is it worth eliminating middle school? All indications are that middle school has come true. They worked because, if we look at the results of our students, we will see that they have improved significantly in the PISA tests, which I will talk about later. We can also see that we have not only the results in the form of an overall improvement in the quality of Polish knowledge of 15-year-olds, but also that we have significantly improved these lower results, i.e. that in fact these weakest students have achieved the greatest success, they have benefited from the fact that there are gymnasiums. In addition, there are educational matters. There is much talk about the fact that middle school is an educational failure, but if we look carefully, we see that there is more violence in primary schools - in fifth and sixth grade - and also that middle school is learning to work better with these young people. Having young people of a certain age there, if we could even help teachers by providing psychological care, more pedagogical care, we could actually get better results in this way than by eliminating middle school. The same is true of the fact that middle school is the best place to put studios in them. There are no obstacles to equip Polish schools with broadband Internet, in the studio. Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Junior high school is a great place to create physical, physical, chemical studios there. It is easier to equip several thousand junior high schools with them than several thousand primary schools. The second point is the style of change. The style of change that you are making is reprehensible. But on that point, there's one more thing I wanted to say. If we look at Poland as a whole, if we look at the fact that Poland is not only big cities, but also small towns, none of us will have any doubts about the fact that in a small village the middle school is really a place where there is a level playing field, it is a place where children from several rural schools often stay and where they have a chance of real development, it is the window that you mock at the world. And that's exactly the window you want to close. For city dwellers the problem of this reform will be only chaos, temporaryity, the way it is implemented - they will manage somehow - and for villagers it will be a real disaster. Change style. No one who has ever carried out a major project, if they have any project experience, would make such a mistake to make such a big system change, such a scale, in such an area, in such a short time. In addition, if we are making such a change, it is worth to have a guaranteed cooperation with those who will make it real. On the other hand, we are dealing with a change against which both teachers, who are going to implement it, as well as local governments, are against it. So you're doing a change that is against those who are going to do it, and you're doing it at a rate that's just psychic. It's the pace, the lack of discussion, the chaos that caused 48% Poles want to postpone this reform for at least a year, and only 31% want it to be implemented at the pace that the state is proposing. It is similar in the data already cited here, that 42% Poles are against this reform at all, and only 38% want the reform proposed by you. In addition, this reform has one flaw, it is such a fundamental flaw. This reform is built on lies, and the rule is that no lie will last long. [[Then you will not enter the future Seym.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the amount of lies that have been presented, even today from the Seymary, on the occasion of this reform, is simply impressive. First of all, expert opinions. Most of the MEN mentioned are against reform. Professors Dolata, Stawiński, Jan Herczyński, refer to these experts. Everyone made it clear that they were against the liquidation of junior high schools, moreover, they all indicated that their research could not in any way be regarded as a basis for the liquidation of junior high schools. Another argument for reform, the middle school went out on its own. Ladies and gentlemen, you use the slogan, saying that they've extinguished themselves, because in general, 60% of the middle school is at primary school. But let's ask ourselves the opposite: how many primary schools are there in which there are no secondary schools, from which children - from these primary schools - then go to further education to secondary school, which is sometimes in a school team together with primary school, because it was simply more comfortable from the point of view of local conditions. These schools are over 9,000. At least 13,000. primary schools at all. So that's not true. Another thing, the opinions of the rectors. There's been a lot of talk about it here. It turns out that these rectors you would really ask are opposed to the liquidation of junior high schools and such a rapid change. Nobody's report could really serve that. He only served to establish one simple thing that the student level had fallen. But if there were 400,000 students in the 1990s and almost 2 million students in 2009 at the top of the boom, then it is no wonder that the student level has fallen significantly. And it's no wonder that now the M.A.'s at 30%. not all students give up, only about 80%. It's just that the weak come up to her. Another issue, consultation and debate. On the subject of consultation and debate, a separate speech could be given on what these consultations looked like and what these debates were. I took part in consultations, in some of these 17 in the voivodship cities, about security, and I attended them together with Minister Szumilas. We saw what this debate looked like. There was nothing about the structure of the school, there was nothing about the changes to be made. It was about safety, the discussion was about something else entirely. Other consultations concerned funding issues, vocational education issues... [[This is the most important thing in this reform.]] ...and I don't remember the fourth topic yet. None of them talked about structure. Therefore, it was one big scam. Another piece of information, the scale of violence in junior high school. I've said a little bit about it, it's a matter of fact the most violence is in primary school, in fifth and sixth grade. You in this V and VI class want to bring in the 7th and 8th classes. This will increase the amount of crime, not reduce it. [[That's bullshit.]] Let's look at one simple thing. Very often - very often - the state uses such a populist statement: the middle school boy beat someone up. [[These are facts.]] I quickly found the same information about primary school students. It's very easy to find out, just remember one thing: you're going to eliminate junior high, you're not going to eliminate junior high. Children of this age are aged and often cause educational problems for their parents, so parents often take this responsibility away from schools. Another lie, ensuring that the children of Class VI stay in the same primary school. No, my parents don't know where they're going next year. They can go to the same building where the middle school is now. The next thing you know, PISA isn't testing skills, it's recreated... Have you ever seen a math test? These are normal tasks that require specific skills. And these mythical skills, which the Minister refers to, are computer skills, e.g. ordering a ticket online, and we fall out in them better than e.g. Finland. Yes, we need to bet on practical education, I agree, we need to improve practical education. In addition, this reform destroys many things. Bilingual classes - what is the point of bilingual classes if they are only for children from the same school? The issue of music schools, which are not adapted, the question of the method of introducing this reform and some provisions on how resolutions are to be carried out, the provisionality of programmes, two year olds in 2019 - the shortcomings of this reform are numerous, so I ask teachers, parents, all who care about children to resist this reform. I call on Minister Zalewska and the entire PiS to withdraw this reform, or at least delay it for at least a year. The Modern Club requests that this law be rejected at first reading. We will also request a public hearing in the committee. This is a bill that is an experiment on children. It's chaos in education, it's destruction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] instead of creating something good. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the sovereign's opinion. The sovereign no longer wants this reform of yours. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u128	Thank you very much, Member. Now on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u129	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on education. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, in this term of office, we are dealing with a project submitted by the PiS, which is actually a giant demolishment act, this time an educational one. [[It's going pretty hard.]] What is the bottom line of this reform? And to change the names - tablets and stamps, because there are no specifics. Many also call it an anti-reform, and so they define it, they certainly are not wrong. The basic question is: What is this change for? I don't think anybody really knows. So maybe the applicants came from the assumption, as in one of the Polish comedies, Minister, that since no one knows, no one will ask. [[He's good.]] Well, my dear Minister, life is not a movie, that's why there will be questions. One of the basics is why you want to destroy more than 6,000. educational institutions in Poland, where today has more than 100,000 jobs. Teachers? This question makes more sense when we refer to history. Middle school started in the late '90s. Minister Handke's reform, which introduced it, is almost 18 years old, can be said to reach maturity, maturity, but today's actions by Members who want to reverse it are very different: extreme immaturity and lack of responsibility for their actions and decisions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, because there are people who today are in favour of the liquidation of junior high schools and who voted in favour of their creation. These are not secret data, they can be found on the Sejm's website. They voted in favour of the uprising of junior high schools, among others. President Jarosław Kaczyński, Tadeusz Cymański, Mariusz Kaminski, Antoni Macierewicz, Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Ryszard Czarnecki. Interestingly, Krzysztof Jurgel was absent from this vote, but maybe he's in the gym tonight? There isn't? Never mind... Some of the people who voted in favour of junior high maybe are in this plenary room today, so I'm asking what happened, why you changed your mind. Why do you want to turn around today with a Vistula bat? Especially since you don't, ladies and gentlemen, that's right. According to PISA research, the level of education in Polish junior high schools improves year by year. From 2000 to 2015, Polish 15-year-olds were promoted from below the European average to the world's top educational level. This translates into further learning, means that every year the chances of graduates getting better jobs, better paid and more prestigious are increasing. It is very important in the context of what was said when creating reform - that it is supposed to equalise the chances of pupils from different backgrounds. As you can see, we're going straight. So, now you want to turn around? Especially since the so-called. A good change is breaking, which shows a recent survey for one of the radio stations. It shows that 42% is tested against the reform of the elimination of gymnasium, 39% He's all for it. This could mean that the trend is changing. People understand why you don't understand, ladies and gentlemen. [[You had 17% before the election.]] Mr. Kaleta, I'm gonna finish this. You're gonna talk. And let me add that this poll is not the only determinant of social trends. At the end of 2015, the Polish Teachers' Union strongly criticised PiS' plans for the reform we are talking about. The teachers raised over 250,000. signatures in defense of junior high and the current school system. Interestingly, it took less than two months. This is further evidence that the reform proposed by PiS does not have as many supporters as government representatives are trying to push us here. What are you gonna do with those signatures? You're gonna throw them in the trash? Ladies and gentlemen, PSL was not a supporter of middle school formation, we were against it. Then AWS Members made a volt, voted in their own way and created the current education system. So you have to be consistent, especially since the upheaval of the decision from several years ago was the huge contribution of teachers, school heads, who had to create almost from scratch junior high school, and it was not easy, especially in smaller towns. Since 1999, local governments have spent PLN 130 billion on the operation of junior high schools, including PLN 8 billion on investment. Some local governments still have financial consequences, pay off the debts they made to adapt to the changes in education that the AWS MEPs gave them in the 1990s. Today you show that you haven't done your homework. Your reform will cause chaos. Primary schools will have to study eight year olds, and the freshmen will come across 15 year olds. And even recently you screamed that six-year-olds shouldn't date ten-year-olds because the age difference is too big. What's the point and logic, Minister? You lost them right now. To make matters worse, the rapid pace of implementation of the anti-reform is perhaps intended to cover up further problems related to it. It turns out that by eliminating middle school, there may be little room for children in kindergartens at primary school. In Warsaw alone it is more than 2 thousand. Three-year-olds, but in rural areas it's not better... [[Why don't they reprivatize something?]] ...not to mention the other age groups. It's the result of PiS activities in education. In September, you abolished the school obligation for six-year-olds, leaving the commitment of local governments to guarantee a place in kindergarten for three-year-olds. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the institutions must accept four years. The elementary schools saved themselves by creating preschool units. Now they have to find new places for seventh and eighth graders, most likely at the expense of the youngest. For PSL, the best interests of students and teachers, Minister. Your reform is a great unknown to them. The question of changing the school structure was not really discussed. Nor does the Ministry have any record of the cases referred to there. We still know nothing about the curriculum - what access to knowledge, and what knowledge you are preparing for our young people. And we don't know what's gonna happen to teachers who lose their jobs in junior high. The Minister wished to ensure that each of them received a proposal for a different job. Question: "Is this going to be a job?" In the boiler room? PSL is not a total opposition. We have repeatedly declared that we are willing to talk about education reform, but in the right direction, so that it is not just an apparent change. We still don't know what the Minister thinks about our proposals, because we haven't gotten the Minister's answers. [[What are the proposals?]] About education, Mr. Kaleta. Instead of spending money changing plates and stamps... [[But what?]] ...spending them on extra language lessons, so that it is at least an hour a day in each class, for a regenerative meal for each student, regardless of the property status, and finally we requested that work on reducing the number of students in classes to 20... [[That's what you've been doing for eight years.]] ...to 20 students, Mr Kaleta, so that the teacher can pay more attention to each of his pupils. Until now, we do not know how the Ministry refers to these proposals, even though we have asked this repeatedly. It is also not known how much money will be consumed by what PiS is proposing today, namely the exchange of tablets, stamps, banners and company paper in schools. I'm sure the Minister knows. Think about it if it's worth it. Isn't it better to spend money on real change instead of bureaucracy: improving the quality of education? As you can see, there are many questions, and instead of answering so far students, teachers and parents may sound in their ears today one quote: Dark everywhere, deaf everywhere. What's it gonna be, what's it gonna be? Does the Minister know this quote? [[Applause]] Adam Mickiewicz. A quote appropriate to the situation, because there are serious concerns that what you are proposing to Polish education is not a reform. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Mr, and then? Can you continue with Mickiewicz?]] Dear Minister, this is no reform, and I will say this politely, crap. The PSL Club will request a public hearing on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will speak on behalf of the European Democrats' Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u131	Good morning. Dear Marshal! Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission. I started differently because I hear you're the PiS Message. He's already getting ready for his ridicule. I will speak of these mockerys, and you will be ashamed of the words you shout out of this part of the room. Well, I'll start by saying that on behalf of the European Democrat club... [[Wheels.]] ...we will support the Platform's and the Modern Platform's motion to reject both of these projects and the Platform's and Modern's request to hold a public hearing, as well as the PSL's request to reject both of these projects. PSL did not request a public hearing. Why? For five reasons. The first reason is time, the pace of this reform, which results in chaos. In a moment, I'll explain how much chaos it's causing. Second, costs. There are costs to this reform. The Minister is talking about 900 million. If that's enough, I don't know. I know one thing: even if it's 880 million, it's money thrown in the mud. There are many more needs in Poland. I know them, and you know them, too, because you talked about them in the campaign. There are mothers raising children, there are mothers who receive alms in exchange for having a disabled child, despite the promise made by your leader, Prime Minister Szydło, and you are throwing 900 million into the mud. That's the second reason. Three: because it's harmful to children, to students. I know what I'm saying because my son is a sixth grade student. Once again, I will remind you why and why you will absolutely be heeled, you will be ashamed of your ridicule. [[Stasia Five's gone.]] Point 4: Since it is unfair to teachers, this reform project is extremely unfair to teachers. And point 5: because it doesn't solve any problems, because it doesn't solve any problems. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] So that you may hear, Madam, because you are deaf to the arguments of your parents, deaf to the arguments of your teachers, so I will shout them out because it is my duty. So it's time. What does the reform proposed by Minister Zalewska mean in practice? It means, because I talked to local government officials from Wrocław about it, that by the end of January we need to develop a new network of schools, consult with teachers and consult with students' parents. Many of them do not want, have different ideas about what their children are going to do, or stay in the same building for a second shift, or go to another building just because it's such a completely nonsense idea. I've explained it to you before, and I'm gonna shut up about it. And by May, new schools must be set up, and resolutions must be made for the establishment of new schools by May. Paragraph 2: costs. You say 900 million. I know one thing. You say there are sanitary facilities in these schools. They're here. Only the difference between middle school and primary school is that in primary school it is supposed to be called. The nutritious node, which means the cafeteria - in middle school it did not have to be - and at elementary school there must be a playground. You don't even know that it is because you haven't even prepared regulations to change that. It is sad that you do not know, Minister, because I thought you were one of the more competent members of this government. I'm really disappointed. Thirdly, this is detrimental to the students. I told you that already. How much will it cost, what will the consequences be for my son? There were ridiculous suggestions from this room: we'll pay you for your Spanish tutoring for your son. I don't want your money, I can afford tutoring. But what about the millions of Poles who couldn't afford to send their children to bilingual middle school and couldn't send them? Think of them, and before them you will confess, before them you will account. I'll remind you in three years, hopefully before. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Paragraph 4: this is not fair to teachers. I'm just gonna say one thing. Under the law, the junior high director becomes deputy to this newly formed elementary school, even if he's better, even if he's an excellent principal. He could have been director of the year, he could have been director of the decade in this city, but under Anna Zalewska's law he has a duty to be deputy director, not for a month, two, three, just until the end of the competition. That's what you do. [[Well, that's good.]] Point 5: These projects do not solve any serious problems of subsidising municipalities that invest more in public education, which means that they need to invest more in non-public education. The result is that private general education schools are being created and the professions are empty. In Wrocław, employers need 400 skilled workers, and there are 4. [[Voice from the hall: There will be a good vocational school.]] Just take care of it. And one last thing. The Minister said that most of the teachers are in favour of this reform. Well, two weeks ago, I was on pl. Piłsudski, I was with these teachers, I saw the banners: leave our middle school. But I've also seen such: leave the middle school, the rulers to get rid of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a picture. from this multi-thousandth demonstration. They were some Silesian teachers. [[Two people.]] You know how? I'll tell you how, because you don't even know there's a town like this. A lot of people. Go there and tell us about your reform how perfect it is. The pitchforks will chase you, drive you out in a ladder car, and you will learn that you are talking to Poles and not Poles in the way you propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u132	Thank you for speaking. [[I was so psyched.]] [[Really? Does it happen?]] On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, you have written the position of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan. 93 people are on the list of people who signed up to ask questions. Anyone else want to sign up? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. [[It's not enough, 1.5 minutes.]] It has not yet happened, Madam, in this Seym, that I should take away someone's voice if they pass a bit. You've just seen it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marshal.]] So, don't worry, if you can't fit in, you'll be able to extend it by now, but we need to set a rule. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Marshal...]] No, Minister, you'll have time. I can always give you the floor, but maybe we should wait for those questions that will form the whole group, and then you can fully answer for any amount of time. [[What time is your shift?]] If you really want to, please, because I can't refuse to speak, but I thought the answer to the whole set of questions would be the right answer. [[Applause]] So the Minister will speak at the moment, before questioning begins. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the performances of the clubs were actually very exciting, I continue to call for the discussion of the Education Law, about what needs to be changed in the education system. Allow me to actually try to explain the doubts that have been raised here from the Parliamentary Speaker. There may therefore be some questions that will not be repeated, although of course Members have freedom here. A few very short remarks, ladies and gentlemen, because I have to comment on this. There were questions about the opinions of the rectors, and it was said that 26 out of 37 said that graduates of general secondary school were not prepared to study. Yes, this is the report of the Supreme Board of Control. I consider the Supreme Audit Chamber to be a truly reliable auditor of the education system. At the same time, I would like to remind you that there was a second speech, as if it was an excuse, why this is happening, that everyone can actually get into college, that history can even get to the one who didn't graduate from history. In this respect, I am responsible for the greater responsibility for the 13-year system that we are building for really having this quality of education at the highest level. There were references to researchers. All these researchers who speak, if someone reads their comments properly, their speeches, absolutely agree with one thing: there are no well-organized general education schools, there are no professional schools. They repeat this every step of the way, stress that in Poland is a very dangerous and unusual market for tutoring for any country. As far as Częstochowa is concerned, here are the Members who were at the meeting in Częstochowa. Your president wasn't at that meeting, he was the vice president... [[I was talking about the vice president.]] ...who tried to disqualify the data we used by showing the transformation in Częstochowa. On the other hand, I very much asked the President to verify this data because his directors to the educational information system provide this data. Therefore, somewhere in these schools or in the office there is really a problem, and this is a big problem, because as you know, local governments, which are controlled by tax authorities, then have to pay some of the educational subsidies. There was, of course, a statement here that I was not at the manifestation. First of all, I wasn't invited. If there was an opportunity or a possibility that I would accept a delegation, it would be with the utmost respect and appreciation. I would like to remind you that the day before I talked in the team about concrete solutions regarding the professional status of the teacher, the salary, what needs to be changed in the Teacher's Charter, also about the raises. We split into teams, we work. The Polish Teachership Association has also arrived. I would like to remind you that most of the concerns of trade unionists, above all, the Solidarity Forum and the Association Forum, sounded in the provisions of the Education Law. We continue to build a system of responsibility also for the satisfaction of the teacher. There was also such an expression that there was a middle school. There were various educational institutions built, not only middle school, but tell me how you will look into the eyes of villagers who built rural schools with their own hands and during your term of office several thousand of these schools have been closed down. [[Applause]] At the same time, I would like to comment on the current situation. Parents are irritated by politicians who have access to full information. Directors have access to full information, teachers have access to full information, not only informants. I remind you that in August, I warned all of these events so that absolutely no one would be surprised, so I have to put these issues down. Manuals, ladies and gentlemen, the programming bases will be ready. Program bases and textbooks will not be temporary. I repeat this every time and I will do it systematically so that you will not actually be able to convince citizens that reality looks different. When it comes to blocking the system - here to the Member of the Kukiz Club - it is indeed so. That is due to two points. First of all, it's from the demographics. We need to take care of teachers who are in the system, which is why I am talking about very serious professional improvement and this annual education, but we need to build a system that will provide funding for this improvement, and at the same time will not be associated with random companies who want to sign to settle the project, not to teach the Polish teacher honestly. At the same time, there is a second point and that is what we are talking about in the team with local government. I don't know if you've noticed that local government officials have had a lot of trouble clearing grants with private institutions. They couldn't get along with you for eight years. We did it in three months. At that time, no one argued that it was a fast pace. They have all the tools to discipline and be responsible for public funds. And there's this problem blocking young people's access to the system, associated with the so-called. the average of the various grades of professional promotion. And we're also talking about this, we're about to release local governments from this average, of course, after inventory of subsidies. There's got to be a trade union agreement here. There's an opening. We hope that this will unlock the young people's access to the system. You're saying that this is an unrealistic term, that we should start this, for example. In three years. Then tell the parents of the students who are waiting for four years of high school that it's not until eight years from now that they're going to have high school for four years. Tell your employers we'll start building an industry school in five, six years. [[Stories of hungry content.]] I think we should be responsible. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask Members who will ask questions to those who have acted on behalf of the clubs. It is not true that everything will happen in 2017. In 2017, we begin a 5-year slow, evolutionary adjustment of the system. In addition, in connection with the reform, which is counted, you have this in the justification of the bill, there will be no dismissal of teachers. We show that there will be at least 5,000. new jobs. We can count, and we proved that when I said that there would be no school leave in connection with the reform of a six-year-old. [[And those who are already fired?]] We have the latest data from the educational information system, where there are more jobs. These are data coming from specific schools, from specific directors. As far as the teacher's assessment is concerned, there was also an issue raised here - yes, it is a whole discussion. I hope that, together with trade unions and local governments, we will be able to take a comprehensive look at everything related to the teacher to really take care of him. Mrs Lubnauer stresses the need to take care of the child. Yes, therefore, the child must not be involved in a political discussion. The child should not notice the reform, it is absolutely our common cause for his sake. [[How can a child not see the reform?]] It is supposed to feel safe at school, and I hope that none of the politicians who have spoken here are interfering with the rhythm of school work. I also remind you of art. 56th Education Act, I think you Members know what it sounds like. As for the number, the difference between the number of primary schools, it is obvious. I remind you that in junior high there has been a maximum accumulation as part of the absolute savings in education subsidies. Besides, the creators of assumptions or a program about middle school assumed that 5,000 would be created. junior high schools, more than 7 thousand were created. Let me remind you, most of them are in teams. At the same time, the debates have taken place on absolutely different subjects. You've probably been on one or two, for which I'm very grateful, and I'm very glad that you honored us with your presence. Every subject has been resounded. We answered the questions, we were in a few hundred places. In local governments, Members of Law and Justice also participated in these debates, indeed they were with local governments, indeed they asked these questions later in the Ministry of Education and not only in committees. [[Okay, that's enough.]] I would like to remind you that the debates have already taken place several times before we discussed the parliamentary project, the Education Law. After I had announced the assumptions as to how the plans for reform had been announced for the first time publicly, the chairman of the education committee invited me, indeed we have discussed this on several occasions, and we have presented a timetable for implementation. It is therefore absolutely not surprising to them. And indeed, the honourable Member here says that we are anywhere... It's certainly not the Ministry of Education discussing where there's more aggression. I've never used an argument like that. [[What do you mean, no?]] However, in the latest research that has already been mentioned here - not the time to analyze the whole of these researches - it is clear that the child feels safe in primary school. If we are talking about bilingual classes, because this is the constant concern of Mr Protasiewicz, who wants his son - I'm sorry, his son, but he is using his private affairs in public - as his son declared, his son does not want to be in a specific school, the Member and yes. But I want to reassure you, because you and your son will be satisfied because bilingualism stays. [[It's better not to calm down, Minister.]] And to be clear, ladies and gentlemen, the Member here mentions talks with Wrocław. I am actually in constant contact, counting this money, among others. These are money for playgrounds, which for 8 years have been carefully built - attention - for 150 thousand. zł. The playground can be built for 30,000. [[Where do you live?]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, the raised issue of a double yearbook. I'll just ask you and ask you a fair and fair answer: Where were you when you were building a double yearbook in class I and class? II? We have this double yearbook. [[Two years, actually three years.]] And these double yearbooks, ladies and gentlemen, are indeed children's dramas, because there a 5-year-old child met with a 7-year-old child. [[Now what's it gonna be?]] [[And now six-year-olds with 15-year-olds.]] As far as the reply is concerned, please state whether a representative of PSL has made an appearance of 6 000. schools to be wound up. That's not true. In primary schools nothing will change by law, because let's discuss statutory records, not feelings and emotions. Nothing in all primary schools will change by law. [[What's gonna happen?]] Principals and teachers of 6-year-old primary schools become teachers and heads of 8-year-old primary schools. In the case of middle school and primary school, the sign will change, the director, teachers by law will stay. By 31 March one resolution will have to be adopted, which will be the beginning of the preparation of independent buildings, 2080 buildings for a one-shift primary school. There will be time for this if this is decided by local governments and they care about teachers and directors. It's going to be the same principal, all the teachers. Therefore, there is no way that anything will be destroyed. In addition, I would like to remind you, because you raised the question of changing your mind here, you said that how many Members voted in favour of middle school in 1998 that Handke's middle school was simply gone, this reform was not implemented. [[What do you mean, no? He doesn't think so.]] At the same time, I would like to remind you that on 25 or 29 November 1998, I may be mistaken, Prime Minister Buzek wrote to the Marshal of the Sejm a request for a very urgent act to introduce a gymnasium which was introduced in September of the following year, where there was no mention of any money being secured, there were no independent buildings. [[And this is?]] [[Voice from the room: You have to learn from your mistakes.]] In the case of the reform presented, the new Education Law in the explanatory memorandum and in the OSR are counted all the money. I understand the concern for three-year-olds, but due to the legislative flexibility already 70% Three-year-olds are in kindergarten. [[There's less than last year.]] Once again, non-public facilities are ready for immediate response. If such a problem arises in any municipality, preschool facilities shall be set up. They are very interested in this because, first of all, they are prepared for it, they are professional, and second of all, I remind you that this is how money is counted, that they have the opportunity not to collect tuition. There are records of debates, there are conclusions from debates, including recordings, because they were indeed recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about the fact that primary school and middle school join together to become primary school with secondary schools, as regards the directors and this concern raised by the Member, this situation only takes place until the end of the middle school. Indeed, competitions must take place later, and they will actually take place every 5 years, and it will not be possible to entrust them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u134	Thank you, Minister, for speaking. We have two corrections. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club and then Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Members' Club, I am sorry, the Circle of European Parliamentary Democrats. One minute for each of your fellow Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Mrs. Marshal! I would like to point out that if anyone disturbs the peace of the children here, it is you. If anyone has a kid in school, he knows that this kid, when he's in sixth grade, starts wondering where he's gonna go to middle school. He chooses his way of life, chooses, I don't know, this bilingual class, like Mr Protasiewicz's son, or another kind of school, sports school or his favorite junior high school where his older friends went, I don't know, every kind of school he dreamed of. What are you doing? The state informs these children that, in fact, their plans for middle school are no longer valid, that you have really changed these plans for them. [[That's a corrigendum?]] Secondly, you inform them that really what they intended does not matter at all, because they are irrelevant, they are pawns in your game. This is the treatment of children in question. [[It's a concern for the children.]] No, I don't go to school, I don't disturb the peace, I don't practice politics on children. I speak in external classes with many teachers and local government officials. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're just disturbing the children because you're doing a chaotic reform that doesn't make any sense. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u136	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, second correction. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u137	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, In fact, this argument that I wanted to make, Madam Lubnauer said. It's about children, and it's not about my baby. It is already bilingual, we agreed with him on the direction of his education. I'll tell you one thing, Minister, because you don't even understand. You are responsible for public education in Poland. Public matters are public, not private. I know that you're often mistaken, especially the bears are evidence of this, public and private, that you've waited eight years to finally, like a bear to honey, to get to that public one. [[Yes, sir.]] But we're looking at your hands. My son can handle it. We, me and my wife are gonna be okay. Thousands of Poles can't handle it. And you say that you understand that there are challenges that young people face. At the same time, you tell them to go to school at the age of 7 instead of at the age of 6, unlike in most European countries. You to them at the exact moment when they make the choice of the path of life, [[♪ The bell ♪]] educationally, it turns everything upside down. [[Voice from the room: Parents have decided.]] What's in you guys? Why this destruction gene? Where did you even come from? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: I sympathize with this son.]] [[The voice from the room: The child feels sorry for me.]] [[Voice from the room: A little crazy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. And we begin - I hope with less emotions - a list of questions. Ewa Tomaszewska, the Law and Justice Club, begins. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute, I remind you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the question: Will the reformed education system guarantee the deepening of education in science and nature? Are measures envisaged in the near future for the establishment and equipment of school studios, which are currently lacking in both primary and secondary schools? For me, as a physicist, there is an unacceptable situation in which every fourth, even every fifth of the junior high school only has natural studios. And this is the action that will have to be taken. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u140	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform Club, question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u141	Thank you very much. Minister, first of all, I wanted to say that your speech sounded like you were defending yourself on the occasion of a vote of distrust towards you. But I want to reassure you, not today, not today, but I am convinced that the effects of this pseudoreform will be such that it will also be for you. Dear Minister, 7 years ago we heard these words from your mouth: If we do not take Polish education as a priority, where the work is to continue regardless of whether someone is on the one side or on the other side of the political scene, we will never succeed. I would like to ask the Minister if you would repeat those words today. You also said that the assumptions of this reform - we are talking about the situation when we have middle school and primary schools - are good and they are still going on. Are those words of the Minister up to date? The reform in Poland forgets that it must be built [[♪ The bell ♪]] money. Minister, where's the money today? Isn't it better to use the money that will be spent on this pseudoreform to invest Polish schools? Because this middle school, they are today in many places in Poland a model for other schools, not only in Poland, but mostly in Europe. This is the European lead, and don't ruin it. I'm appealing to you today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Are you a minister in favour of public hearing because such a request has been received from the Association of Polish Cities, the Association of Rural Cities of the Republic of Poland, the Union of Polish Metropolises, the Union of Polish Cities and the Union of Polish Districts? Are you able to convince your colleagues in the PiS to have a public hearing? I believe that when things change, there can be no shortage of public debate. Even as a parent and a grandfather, I would like to ask, because we have very smart children, already these few years are so smart: Did you ask children whether they want junior high or not? I just graduated from a 7-year-old elementary school, then there were professions, high school and only higher. I remember those who were against junior high today defending those junior high schools. And I think that [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Ministry refers to four experts who claim to support the liquidation of secondary schools. The Minister refers to research by Prof. Dolata, Dr. Herczyński or Prof. Stawiński. These experts on the other hand say that their research was not, should not be used to justify the liquidation of secondary schools. I therefore ask that the analyses created for this reform be cited by experts, education professionals, confirming the validity of the liquidation of secondary schools. With regard to your statement, Minister, about disrupting the work of students in schools and teaching students, nothing more, Minister, will interfere with this science than the mass departure of teachers from secondary schools and their volatility at the stage of extinction and changes in circuits or the combination of six-year-olds in one school building from fourteen years old. - and 15-year-olds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister knows this well that these are the problems that both teachers and parents are sleeping with today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party. There is no Member. Then it is Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[No, no, no, no, no.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Law and Justice.]] I've moved you, I'm sorry, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u147	I won't be moved.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u148	I don't need that either. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If some members of the opposition were to take seriously the screams, it should be said that in your opinion junior high school is the basis not only of Polish education, but also of Polish science, without it there would be no scientific achievements in Poland. Secondly, if you were to take seriously what you are saying, everyone would have to consider that these changes in education law mean not to include a few years of teenage school education and the destruction of several thousand school buildings, which is, of course, absurd. Only idiots can take such arguments seriously. You tried to accuse the Minister of not consulting these changes and not talking to anyone. Therefore, I have a request to the Minister to repeat with which institutions, organisations and unions she has talked about the effect of these discussions, whether the original project in relation to the one that is today is identical, and whether the Minister is open to the arguments of others. More specific question, often asked by [[♪ The bell ♪]] gym teacher at sports schools. They ask if they will be able to create high school and primary schools in the future so that they can prepare young people sportfully from quite early school age. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u151	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, Polish middle school is a huge success. 17 years ago, young, ambitious teachers believed that this reform was for them to open up a new reality that allows us to work with a student who lets us forget about the old communist system. They believed it, and you're trying to ruin it today. Among them was also your deputy, Minister Kopeć. I'm curious, by the way, Minister, if you go back to your middle school where my one daughter is studying, and the other, I hope, will learn -- what you're going to tell your students, what you're going to tell your teachers, what you're going to say to all those who have worked for 17 years... [[That's a good change.]] I wouldn't laugh, Minister, I wouldn't laugh. I would not laugh because it is the drama of many Polish children as well as teachers. In the 18th century, cardinal. Altamirano, who destroyed Jesuit missions in South America, who also educated, [[♪ The bell ♪]] He said, "My job was to chop off the limb, but I was not aware of its achievements. So you don't end up in the same role, the situation, because history will remember you exactly like this. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's so deep. Where did he find it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The gradual elimination of secondary education proposed by the government means, in practice, less revenue from education subsidies for schools. Today, there are three year olds in junior high, there will be only two, one further - until the school is completely extinguished. This situation raises legitimate concerns, especially in the case of non-public middle schools in rural areas run by NGOs. Recently I had the opportunity to be in such a school in the town of Handzlówka in the municipality of Łańcut in Podkarpacie. In this middle school, only 43 students are taught. Gradual liquidation means that in a year this number will fall to less than 30, etc., and the fixed costs of school maintenance, for example. with heating of the building, maintaining cleanliness, providing teaching assistance, will stay. How is the association running this middle school supposed to ensure its proper functioning over the last two years? I am talking about non-public middle school run by NGOs because their situation can be very difficult. The lack of resources will not be provided by the local government, as it will probably be in the case of public schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the government have a proposal for non-governmental organisations, an idea to ensure the normal functioning of their facilities during the phase-out period? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u154	Thank you so much for the next question. And the next one will be Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Zalewska has repeatedly stressed that she is fulfilling the wishes of the rectors by eliminating junior high school. Turns out that's not true. Although the rectors point to a reduction in the level of candidates for college, the reasons they see completely elsewhere, not in the presence of our middle school system. Among the recommendations of the universities contained in the report of the NIK, which the Minister refers to, there are no such requests. Other reasons are indicated, for example, that within 15 years four times, five times, because of 400 thousand. to 2 million, the number of students in Poland increased. There must be another reason, another reason for eliminating middle school. My question is this: Minister, is this NIK report you are calling for the only document that contains the data that gives you a mandate to carry out at this rate, in this way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Minister. A lot has happened recently in the field of pedagogical supervision. In fact, school heads, especially these schools with smaller leading bodies, did not have the chance to obtain proper, good, reliable information in the field of education law, because the visitors were not allowed to provide this information to them. Not much, I know, that in many curatoria in Poland even the provision of such information to school heads was prohibited. I wanted to ask if in the new reality this director would be more concerned, so to speak, in this matter. [[He's taken care of...]] I'd like to ask you what's going to happen to this unfortunate evaluation that's grown to extreme proportions and cost, absorbed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Amazing public money. Will she be limited because nothing gives school? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u158	Thank you. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to appeal to you to stop this bad change for Polish education. After listening to your speech today, I thought that we live in different countries, that we do not live in the same Poland, because just because you have most and strength today does not mean that you are right, and even more so that you are wise. [[Applause]] I'm going to quote Gandhi here, who said it's not good to believe in his wisdom. Rather, the principle should be adopted - and it should be remembered - that even the greatest force masks its weaknesses, and even the wisest can sometimes be wrong. The High Sejm, so many protests throughout Poland and in my constituency, as I have 11 years of parliamentary practice, has not yet been there. Minister, you say you listen to Poles, you drive. You only listen to yourself. Today I will present you with 1,400 signatures only from Czechowice-Dziedzice and from little Jaworz near Bielsko. There's 10,000 on my desk. signatures from Bielsko-Biała, from Czechowice, from Żywiec, from Pszczyna [[♪ The bell ♪]] And from the entire constituency. Think about it, because you still have time to change. I'm giving it to you to think about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u160	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u161	Minister! I realise that despite the reminders of Minister Morawiecki, you cannot estimate the costs of the proposed changes, because this reform cannot be called out of respect for the authors of real reforms. By answering you a little bit that the costs will be, among other things. The cost of pronouncements for tens of thousands of teachers and non-pedagogical workers, which cannot be forgotten, the costs of providing schools, their liquidation, the reimbursement of EU funds and many, many others, I would like to draw your attention to one common feature of all these costs: none of them will be borne by the MEN, for which all the local authorities will bear. I would therefore like to ask whether MEN - or maybe MEN with the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Home Affairs - is planning any support for municipalities, cities and districts in connection with these costs implemented so-called. You've made your own reforms. Or is it a deliberate action aimed at weakening the quite strong position of the current local governments before the upcoming big steps in local elections? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to say that the Platform and the PSL have only slept for eight years, that they've slept through eight years. [[If you guys had slept, it would've been better.]] But the Civic Platform and PSL have done something worse over the last eight years, because they have dismantled the Polish school and allowed for uncontrolled school liquidation. [[You're a teacher. Think what you're saying.]] In 2012, 349 school facilities were lost, 1259 schools were liquidated in 2013 and 2014. These are the data from the Central Statistical Office. Why? Because the PO-PSL government reduced funding. [[That's not true. That's not true.]] [[We talked about this at the committee meeting.]] The reform of the Law and Justice Government is planned, prepared and counted. Minister, please tell the opposition once again whether the reform will also support small schools, or whether it implies an increase in subsidies for small schools so that they are not only eliminated, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But for children and teachers to have better conditions for learning and working. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u164	Thank you. Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka, Civic Platform Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u165	Minister, why are you so giddy here, so bravely lying, [[Applause]] And somehow you lacked courage and chickened out without going out to $35,000. protestors? [[You didn't listen to the Member.]] Minister Kluzik-Rostkowska should not have been invited, and there were three protests and she went out to everyone. You say that teachers expect this change, and that's just the height of cynicism. You'll probably say that today protesters in front of the Seym don't really protest, they just jump for joy in the Village. The most important, however, are the students, so how can you change the program in the middle of the educational cycle? Because of your fanaberism, you are leading to a situation where young people in classes VI, who have already completed their education cycle, will remain in classes VII and VIII, and we do not know what the programs are, we do not know what they will be doing during these 2 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You'll probably try to get Lech Wałęsa out of their head for two years and tell them that Jarosław Kaczyński was at the head of the "Solidarity" with Lech Kaczyński. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And how can we not reform education?]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u166	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u167	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! After the reform, will the bilingual classes only be in primary and secondary schools, with children from the same primary school taking precedence over them? What chance do children with language skills from regional schools who do not have such classes have to get into such a class? What are you gonna do with those wasted talents? What are you gonna do about the disappointed children and parents? And what about children who are linguistically capable of families who do not have money for language courses? And one more question about preschool branches: Are there data indicating, in how many rural schools in classes that were once adapted to science, classes VII and VIII, that there are currently preschool branches? Is MEN going to help these municipalities build additional studios or kindergartens? Is it true that in the budget, the amount for increasing the availability of kindergartens is lower for 2017, [[♪ The bell ♪]] than it was in 2016, up to 300 million, although since 2017, municipalities are also obliged to provide pre-school care to three-year-olds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u168	Thank you very much. Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u169	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is high time to organize the Polish education system. Parents, teachers, and students are waiting for this. I've had a number of conversations with my constituents, and they're waiting for a good change. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Oh, my gosh.]] It is high time to introduce pedagogical supervision, safety and stability for teachers and students. It was with great satisfaction that I listened to the Minister talk about the need for well-functioning libraries, classrooms, educators and psychologists. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what the Polish school needs. I have a question to ask the Minister: will the education board have the right powers to do this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to conduct pedagogical supervision of Polish schools? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u170	Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Platform Club, another question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, By the end of February, local governments will adopt resolutions on the new school network and their planned liquidation. It's thousands of intentional resolutions all over the country. My question is: Does the Minister have data on how many junior high schools will be transformed by local governments into different types of schools, primary or secondary schools? Please also answer the question as to whether the pressure on educational institutions to create school teams is intended to improve the statistics of the Ministry of National Education on the number of school leavers and school leavers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, will ask another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u173	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister, I'm also a sixth-grade father. There's about 350,000 kids like that if I have good data. Minister, please answer me and hundreds of thousands of parents who are concerned why our children must be the subject of an experiment, why our children must be put into quickly organized classes, schools, because there is little time. Why do they have to go to a school in September that doesn't have a program? What will happen to our children in the next two and a half years when they go to high school with their old students? Will there be a place for all these kids? These are our concerns. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, if you cannot give up this reform, put it down for a year and prepare it well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. Is the Member here? I can't see. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Then it is Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club. I can't see either. This is Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u175	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that if someone had doubts about the lack of justification for the reform you proposed, then after listening to your statement justifying this reform in the education system, they were deeply terrified, because what you requested to present is indeed only a lot of half-truths. I hope you only said that out of pure hypocrisy, because I don't think you know a lot of things. First of all, education subsidies. Do you realize that the municipalities add between 20% and 150% depending on the structure of the municipality to education, to education subsidies, to keep education? And you're saying that they're gonna be kept small schools, that there's gonna be one change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question, Minister: Will you ensure that education subsidies are fixed at the cost of education for local government units? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Anniversary's getting longer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You from the Civic Platform, I think you were wrong when you called for junior high, and you're wrong today. [[There was no platform then, sir.]] [[There wasn't even a platform, sir.]] [[But Donald Tusk was.]] I want to tell you that... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the parent of three children, two survived, passed through middle school. During that time, I was on various counsels, presided over the counsel of my parents. At that time, parents and children and teachers and directors all thought junior high was a mistake. [[I'm sure these teachers are gonna listen to this. Do you know that?]] Today, the dissatisfaction you generate is political dissatisfaction, only and exclusively. I have three children, and I hope that the third one will pass through the normal cycle of 8-year-old primary school and then another level. I have a question for the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shouldn't this debate about education be depoliticized? Thank you very much. [[It's best to lock her up.]] [[Don't discuss it at all.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u178	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Music schools will also be included in education reform. The introduction of 8-year general education schools for primary education and at the same time the leaving of 6-year general primary education schools will result in major changes in artistic education. In the most difficult situation, there will be general music schools in the first degree that are not part of music schools. Parents ask this question and do not accept that their children start their lessons in a 6-year-old music school, at the same time general education, knowing that after the sixth grade, without completing their primary education cycle, they will be forced to move the child to a regional primary school, to classes VII and VIII. In such a situation, a much larger group will complete music training after 6 years of first-grade music school. I get the feeling that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because of this haste, children will be lost capable. Minister, you were the one who told me a few years ago that in Finland, 7 years of education reform was being prepared for, that it is harmful for children to be tampered with by successive governments to educate quickly. What changed your mind? Did this ministerial chair make you change your perspective on children's education? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u180	Thank you very much, Member. And now the next question will be asked by Mr Adam Cyranski, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question on behalf of all private gymnasiums which are conducted by private entities, but also on public rights, namely those which do not have extensive studios. What's gonna happen to middle school? They're 5 years old to turn into primary schools, especially since they've only got till the end of the year. It's just a little bit... They don't have a program basis yet. That's the information I got. Will the Ministry of Education help these middle schools financially and will all actors, if they benefit from such assistance, be treated the same way? That's a question. And then what's gonna happen to these teachers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who are de facto specialists in these junior high schools? Because once you've turned into a primary school, you'll have to accept initial teachers. So it's five years. What are we gonna do with private middle school specialists who are in middle school today? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u183	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are debating a very important law of education. This is the result of the electoral promises of Law and Justice. Parents, students and teachers are waiting for this bill. Minister, is it true that this bill will help to strengthen the educational role of the school? [[That's not true.]] Will it contribute to the proper informationization of the Polish school? Are there gonna be physical studios? Minister, will we restore the right place for this education at the Polish school? Are we sealing an educational subsidy that has not always been properly used, as evidenced by the report of the Supreme Auditorium? Is it true that a six-year-old will be covered by education subsidies and small schools will get a better conversion rate? [[A voice from the room: But that's what you said.]] Minister, will the teachers have 1% on professional training? Minister, will the new reform contribute to the fact that Polish children will function better in the future in the labour market? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u184	Thank you very much. Another question. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u185	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, I'm worried and disappointed in your speech today. [[Voice from the room: Shock!]] It's worse than I thought. [[But with what?]] You are the first teacher of the Republic of Poland, and what you said today about the Polish school will never be forgotten by your parents or teachers. [[Forever.]] Minister, tell me. For 8 years you have been preparing to take over governments, preparing for total destruction of the whole country, but I thought you would save a good Polish education. Turns out I was wrong. Minister, your reform is centralization, subjecting the school to a school curator and a minister of education. [[And that's what this education is all about.]] Speaking of the consultations you were talking about, referring to my town... [[This isn't just your town.]] ...well, let me tell you that today the City Council has passed a resolution that it is against this very reform of yours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And as for this pseudo consult you're talking about, I don't think you think it's a consultation of meetings where you're only meeting members of the Solidarity... [[If you're pseudo-opinion, really, it's pseudo-opinion.]] ...and tells them that this reform will come into force without listening to their opinions at all. There was a similar meeting with one of the messengers sitting here in the courtroom and it looked the same. Teachers and school principals were outraged. Think about what you're doing. Don't destroy the Polish school. [[Applause]] [[You guys weren't wondering.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u186	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. Another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You tell the Minister that there are guaranteed resources in Poland to carry out this reform, but you forget to add that you assume that these are measures that will be guaranteed by local governments. I am not just talking about investments that have been made by a number of local authorities, e.g. I'm talking about the construction of junior high schools, but I'm talking about the fact that the municipalities are supposed to have a reduced grant for the student by 1/9, because we're going to have an 8-year elementary school, not a 6-year primary school and a 3-year junior high school. At the same time, the Ministry of National Education with this reduced subsidy provides for an increase in the number of branches, especially in rural classes. Who's gonna pay for this? Did you meet with your uncles in the communes or mayors? Do they have the means to do so? No, they don't. And a specific question. What if the child fails because of the disease of the third grade in 2019? Will he go to eighth grade primary school and then to 4-year-old high school? Can you explain to the Minister how many years of science he's gonna lose? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u188	Mr Jacek Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u189	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! As an academic and, at the same time, as a youth sociologist, I would like to draw attention in this debate to an issue that we are missing. We constantly improve the effectiveness of education through PISA tests, i.e. competence tests for 15-year-olds, and at the same time forget that there is a certain space for young people's dysfunction, a dysfunction that is linked to such an antinomy between the durability of knowledge and instrumental skills in completing test questionnaires. The second space is the lack of social competence of pupils, which also results in opportunities in the labour market, where employers often pay attention to shortcomings in social relations, skills in teamwork, in the field of cause and effect thinking. In view of the above, if we see the achievements of the junior high school, we must also see its dysfunctions. I therefore ask the Minister: Where is this balance? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform Club. I'm asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the textbooks. Many questions will be asked here, but I would like to ask about the textbooks that form the basis for learning at the Polish school. Teachers, students, and parents work with textbooks. So far, the new textbook was in the hands of teachers in the spring, and fragments of it earlier, so teachers could get acquainted with them and choose the best textbook for themselves. Eventually, they had to deal with a textbook that they thought would be the best way to work with a student. How is the resort, Minister, in this chaos and haste going to provide these good textbooks? Let me remind you that the Minister said that she consulted this reform with a large group of experts, and the National Governing Board Association of Education says that there is no basis for programming. For students of new schools, it's a job for years. We warn against haste and lack of consultation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u192	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u193	Mrs. Marshal! Honourable Members! I wish there was a minister now. My question, I think, will be the first such question asked today. I would like to ask for an answer about what President Andrzej Duda said recently... [[He's not here.]] ...because we learned that now our children will learn a true story from which we will find out who is a traitor and who is a hero. In that case, I would like to ask who will decide what is a true story, who is a traitor and who is a hero, whether it is by chance Mr Kaczyński or Mr Piotrowicz, because I do not know if the Minister knows, but the school should teach critical thinking and analysis. [[And the truth.]] And since I have some time left, I have a second question for you: aren't you ashamed that you're lying? A few years ago, when you weren't a minister, you said that education reform should be presented in an evolutionary way, and now you're doing a revolution. I don't know if you're hoping for the dead you'll leave behind. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'd like to ask you to answer my questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Hate speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u195	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it possible to prepare a student very well for each course of study for 3 years in high school? High school teachers know it's too short a period. The rectors of the university also confirm that the beginning of the study is often a supplement to the news. Will the proposed reform increase the level of education in our country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u196	Thank you. Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The reform of education in your performance causes panic, confusion and incredible chaos. [[Nobody's getting away yet.]] It is perceived as a demolition of the Polish education system. There is even greater terror among the parts of society, which is protected not only by the constitution, but also by the law. It's about the national minorities that you've put on the sidelines completely, and no one's taking care of them or caring about them. There has been no consultation with minority communities on changes in education, Minister, I repeat. Directors know literally nothing about the hourly grid or the new software base, which is different, even in terms of [[♪ The bell ♪]] native national language, history or geography. They don't know anything about new textbooks, about a new district where, I think, you're gonna eliminate a few schools of national minorities because it's in your best interest. And I have one more question: tomorrow, will you present the programme basis for the education of national and ethnic minorities as well? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u198	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: What about middle school and sports? Will such education continue in primary school since the seventh grade? What will be the organisation of such schools, and will there be an external recruitment? As a sports doctor, I am particularly concerned about sports schools, because so far our junior athletes and sports classes were our pride. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u200	Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Non scholae, sed vitae discimus - we do not learn for school, but for life. [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God...]] The Latin Sentence, which means that the purpose of learning is not to satisfy the teacher, the school, but to meet the needs of life. This is the motto of many schools in the world. It is a reversal of Seneca's sentence: Non vitae, sed scholae discimus - we do not learn for life, but for school. And that's how it's been. These are the points that we answer to the question of who is the most important person in school, who should be the most important. I've been a teacher for almost 40 years. I'm proud of it. To me, the student was always the most important. I am very pleased that the proposed law on education restores this superior good. It is for the student that we make these changes, we restore the proven education system [[♪ The bell ♪]] 8 plus 4 or 8 plus 5, quality of education according to needs and opportunities. We restore the glamour of vocational schooling, provide work for every teacher, believing that local governments will show proper care. Audiatura et altera pars - you have to listen to the other side - yes, but comments balanced, without aggression, without raised voice. Minister, have the remarks expressing concern for the student's well-being been taken into account by the Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u202	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The whole world is knocking on the head and asking why you want to change the educational system, which is one of the best systems in the world. And in Częstochowa, the vice president of the city responsible for education, teachers and parents don't believe their own ears, they don't believe that the Minister of Education can lie from the Seym. Therefore, at the request of the President, I will quote his statement: I hereby declare that the information provided in the media by the Minister of National Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, is false. According to the data provided by junior high school directors to the city office, almost 200 teachers of Częstochowa junior high schools are at risk of losing their jobs in the first year of the school. On 24 November, junior high school directors again stated in writing that they would not hire new teachers, on the contrary - they would fire them and reduce their jobs. In addition, junior high school directors stated in writing that they did not pass on any writings, documents and analyses to the Ministry or the Education Department in Katowice, which would imply the need to hire new teachers in suffocated junior high schools. Therefore, information from the Minister of Education [[♪ The bell ♪]] The need for 39 new teachers to be employed in the old Częstochowa junior high schools is untrue. Signed by Dr. Richard Stefaniak, Deputy Mayor of Częstochowa. In a telephone conversation with me, Mr. President informed me that if you don't stop using Czestochowa in your propaganda statements, then Mr. President... [[He's gonna sue.]] ...take formal steps. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u204	Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, will ask another question. Madame, we are waiting for you. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u205	Okay, but I need a card. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! When Minister Zalewska spoke, I was the one taking notes. These include: quality of education, safety, joy of learning without tests, good textbooks, those that enable independent learning of the student, change of funding, the studios concerned, broadband Internet. So here's my question: I'm sorry, which one of these actions can't be implemented with the help of a functioning school structure? To create studios, it's even better if there's middle school, the number of which is smaller, where you can create biological, chemical, physical studios. Wideband Internet - I assure you that the Internet doesn't care whether it's in elementary school or middle school. The joy of learning without tests - yes, it is better that these exams are more open. Security - How will safety improve that we place children from 6 to 15 years of age in one building? Quality of education - we have for 15-year-olds one of the best education in the world. So, what else do you want to correct? Yes, we need to improve Polish high school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it can be done within what we have so far. On the other hand, when it comes to teaching the subject, I would like to point out that the whole world goes from teaching the subject to interdisciplinary teaching. We're the only ones going in the opposite direction because we have a different reality. [[Applause]] [[Someone's got to start.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u206	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u207	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What is new is always worrying and I am able to understand these voices appearing here and there. On the other hand, I am not very able to understand the form of criticism presented by the opposition. Unless it's a total opposition, so criticism is so total. This criticism assumes that the reform cannot succeed because it simply cannot succeed. The argument, which appears very often, is that Polish self-governments will not be able to cope with this reform. [[No, these are very specific arguments, very specific.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are referring to specific examples, such as Czestochowa. I'll give you another example. Namely, I am also in contact with local government officials, today I spoke with Mayor Kunów in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, Mayor of the commune, where education is very well conducted at the moment, and he told me that at the moment they are analyzing [[♪ The bell ♪]] a few options for action to be taken by the local government. At the moment they will choose the best option, because the student's well-being is the highest goal for them. I would like to ask the Minister: Are there many local governments that approach this way, not political ones, but substantive ones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u208	Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In one of your recent interviews, you boast that you are proud to have the support of the President of Law and Justice himself. But shouldn't you, as a minister, be most concerned with the support of teachers, parents and students in introducing such an important and responsible reform? According to the latest survey, 42% is being investigated against your reform and, most importantly, the opponents are people between the ages of 18 and 44. You once served as an example of Finland, from which Polish education should, according to you, follow a good example. You said that there was a model education reform there. You yourself said that seven years were being prepared for this good reform. Today you're doing the opposite for purely political reasons. How long do you intend to ignore the voices of self-government officials who will de facto pay for your reform and the qualified staff who do not leave a dry thread on this reform? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u210	Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For several months now, from the mouth of the total opposition, the education reform of our government has been creating chaos, fear... [[Voice from the room: That's the truth.]] ...and the biggest problem of reform is the loss of jobs by teachers. Minister, is it true that education reform provides, in addition to improving the quality of education, for the award of small schools and that is where additional funding will be directed? Is it true that education reform pays particular attention to education, so every school will have teachers, psychologists, speech counselors, methodologies and professional advisors? Is it true that more jobs will be needed because it will appear in the system over 5,000. new branches, because the number of pupils in primary school classes [[♪ The bell ♪]] is smaller than in middle school classes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome. I take it this is with Mr Paul Bankowski agreed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u213	Yes, sir. Thank you very much for the exchange, because we are about to begin the committee meeting. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I do not want to refer to all the substantive issues that were raised earlier, but to focus on one issue, namely the so-called. public consultation. Well, the Minister spoke very much about the consultations that took place widely across the country on this pseudo-reform. I want to cite one example from our Greater Poland Walk. Well, the meeting took place in a strange way. Namely, first it was an announcement that it was a summary of the year of the rule of law and justice, at a certain address in Bohemia. When our self-governments became interested in this, it turned out on the day of this meeting summarizing the year, that this is a meeting on education reform. Address - it turned out that these consultations took place in the rectory [[♪ The bell ♪]] parish of St. Floriana and that on the very day of this meeting it was called a consultation on educational reform. So that's how you conducted this consultation. There were, of course, the PiS activists themselves at this meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Education reform is needed, but it is such an area that we should be careful of experiments. But this reform is one big one, ladies and gentlemen, an experiment. I would like to point out that a negative position on the project of the Ministry of National Education introducing a new school system was taken by local government organisations forming part of the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. In their view, this reform is not possible in time, and local authorities do not have the time to carry out local information campaigns for parents on the proposed changes. And now, Minister, the question is, are there simulations that will allow you to answer, how many students in grade VI? [[♪ The bell ♪]] will he stay in the same primary school he has studied so far, and how many for 2 years will he go to his previous junior high school? And do the parents of the sixth graders know what building their child will be studying in next year? Do your parents know that the decision of the MEN, independent of the local government, can be an existing middle school? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Krajewski, club Law and Justice, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have had several meetings with the principals of primary and secondary schools from many municipalities in my constituency, and I assure you, Minister, that these meetings were factual and reliable, not with the aggression shown here by the opposition. On the other hand, Minister, there was one theme behind these meetings, these talks - fear. The fear of teachers, especially middle school heads, because we know that this section of education will be the most affected by these reforms. Question to the Minister: Are the concerns presented to you by the teachers actually justified? Is there a repair mechanism or a protective mechanism in the Ministry of National Education in order to minimise the costs of this reform for middle school teachers? The second thread that has been going through, ladies and gentlemen, during these meetings, is the area of private schools, especially primary schools. No records in this law, not only in this law, but also in the previous period, [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning the evaluation of heads of private schools. This limits the possibility of applying in competitions for directorial positions in public schools. And the second question - your marshal, to conclude - is that there is no information on the financial resources available to support private primary schools. We know that local governments will receive funding, but will local governments also be able to support non-public schools from this financial bag? This is the non-public school segment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In your speech, Minister, you spoke about the poor condition of Polish school and Polish education. Minister, in these words you insult Polish self-government officials, Polish teachers and parents who are very involved in the proper functioning of these schools. [[Minister, listen to me.]] [[Minister, it's for you.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it looks like the Minister doesn't visit Polish schools. Even this concern of yours about things I understand a little bit. Let me remind you how you sounded from the platform when we introduced a reform concerning six-year-olds that Polish schools are not prepared to accept these children. Your knowledge was based on a report prepared by the Elbanowskis. Hence my question: According to what report do you now evaluate the preparation of schools for the adoption of freshmen? The Minister said there would be no double shifts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So where are the first graders gonna do their school duties, in the cafeteria or in the locker room? Why aren't the Elbanovs screaming for the little ones today? Or 371,000. Is that the amount you bought their silence with? [[Applause]] [[The platform doesn't hit?]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u220	Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of her office, the Minister has assured that no teacher will lose his job and no school will be terminated. But not by words, but by actions we will judge. Take, for example. the powiat oświęcimski. There, the absolute majority of the county council has Law and Justice. Among the leaders are the closest co-workers of the Prime Minister: the former assistant, the current director of the parliamentary office, the vice-president responsible for education is the PiS candidate for the Sejm from last year. [[Don't praise me, don't praise me.]] On September 29th, this district council adopted a resolution on the liquidation of five schools. Academics, tech school, general high school, adult high school have been eliminated. [[Scandal, scandal, Minister.]] Not much, another resolution was made last week. It applies formally only to changing the address of the school, but it actually moves the school from the street. Camping on the street. Leszczyńska, where 700 people are already learning. You're shutting down the school, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to which more than 300 students go. Where, then, is your credibility, Minister? And finally, the question from my son Matthew, who goes to sixth grade elementary school, is why he won't be able to go to middle school. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: Daddy doesn't explain such a simple thing to him?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u222	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u223	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If it's so good, why is it so bad? But I'm getting to the point. The educational information system, ladies and gentlemen, is an electronic database system for the collection of information about schools, teachers and students, established by the Act of 15 April 2011 on the educational information system. And I'm gonna start with the question because the minute is short. Minister, are the data from the educational information system the basis for knowledge about schools, institutions, teachers? Because today, in the opposition's statements, it sounded that not necessarily this data is reliable. Why? That's why. When statistics were presented here showing that 27% junior high schools at present have classrooms and primary schools 18% It's one of the messengers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Civic Platform said it's not true that we don't go to schools. And the second thing, I have to refer to Czestochowa, whose name today sounds like this. Yes, the data that the Minister brought to Częstochowa and illustrated are data from the educational information system. And it is said that 39 teachers in Częstochowa will be employed, but, let's agree, not in suffocated secondary schools, only in 8-grade schools and 4-year general education schools. Ladies and gentlemen, let's hear it because it's the chaos you're bringing in. I'm saying that to the total opposition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Agnieszka... [[Game in the O.R.]] But I will not yell at you when we are all talking at the same time, so please - at least when I call for more Members - for a moment of silence. No comment, 'cause that's when they're not needed. Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Club Civic Platform, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There were a lot of quotes here, and I'll introduce my favorite too. In my beloved film, Juliusz Machulski's film, one of the heroes states, in short, Minister, that there are some shortcomings in this project. Another would say, and where are the hauls? I don't see any of these, Minister. [[What movie is it?]] You haven't come to your attention about any changes to the Teacher's Charter - art. 19, Art. 20, Art. 22. And you were talking about getting a teacher attached to the school, to the student. What will this attachment involve? The fact that the teacher's gonna run from school to school to fill out a job? It sounds very bad in my ears that the director will be taken care of. Cared for or subjugated? You have to answer that question. And now just one more question, Minister. You told me about the complete preparation for change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in sports education, in sports classes, in SMS. The response to the interpellation from your ministry on November 23rd, today is November 29th.: The Ministry of National Education, together with the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, will in the near future draw up proposals for a new regulation on the conditions for the creation, organisation and operation of sports branches, sports schools and sports championships schools. Do you have these changes ready or will you be working on them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u226	Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u227	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Tomorrow is the deadline given to the expert groups to prepare the basics of the programme. And I wanted to ask the Minister: Are these grounds prepared or will the deadline be respected? And will the programme bases, which are the most important part of children's education, be subject to wider consultation with experts? If so, when and in what form will these consultations take place, how long will they take, and with whom will this be consulted? How long will it take to create and print textbooks? However, Minister, I suggest a delay in the reform, like many other experts, so that the Ministry will have time to prepare a good bill, so that better programming bases can be prepared, because those programming bases that are now written for quick, rather no one believes. They're in circulation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] merciless for you a list of scientists, more than hundreds of specialists in educational research, over hundreds of didactics of Polish language. Don't you take their opinions into account, and that doesn't mean anything to you? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u228	Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. There's no envoy. Therefore, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The liquidation of junior high schools will hit the most talented students who are determined to specialize in bilingual, musical, sports and polytechnic secondary schools. The transition to profiled middle school is an accelerated development of the student. But the elimination of junior high also hits children who need special education. At present, children with special needs up to 15 years of age are found at secondary school level, from integration classes to special schools, where they can learn to work and practice as minors in workplaces. After the reform, such a child will study in elementary school for two years, in this integration class. And it's enough that he'll have a special program to extend his education, and at least once he won't pass to the next class, and after elementary school he could be 18 years old. She won't be able to be a protected youth worker anymore, she'll be alone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the labour market. This reform destroys the most capable students and the weakest. That's not a question, Minister, it's an exclamation mark. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u230	Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, Modern Club. Please ask me to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u231	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The modern car isn't repaired with chisel and hammer, it's a modern computer. Our... [[In a word: modern.]] ...today's education is modern. It's not a trabant, it's a wartburg, it's a big fiat, like it was in the '90s. Therefore, I have a question: Why is the reform being carried out, starting with students in this class VI, and not from those who will go to class I next year, so as not to change the rules during the course of the game? Those students who are now in sixth grade, even a month ago, two months ago, six months ago, they thought they were going to middle school. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. These principles should not be changed and education reform should not be revolutionary, but evolutionary, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Shumilas, a formal proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to make a formal request for a 10-minute recess because my parents are protesting at the Sejm. [[Applause]] The Minister spoke very much about public consultation - she has a chance to go to her parents and talk to her parents, actually tell them what she wants to do, but above all, to listen to their voices. Minister... [[You can't do it for 10 minutes.]] ...10 minutes for the parents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u234	But I don't take that proposal into account, Minister. So... Please. [[You don't have a voice for that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not refuse to meet anyone, therefore I invite my parents to the Ministry of Education. All they have to do is ask. [[Applause]] To set a deadline, I guarantee you... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...will be the closest one possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u236	Now I must formally refer to this proposal. I don't take it into account because, first of all, we've already heard the Minister's statement, second, 10 minutes, excuse me, but in 10 minutes, the Minister will only be able to leave the Sejm and we'd still have to talk. So... [[But they were so taught.]] ...we'd have to take a long break. I see no reason to do so in this situation. [[Let's make it an hour.]] Mrs Urszula Rusecka, the Law and Justice Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are debating a fundamental change that will determine the future of our children, the future of our country. Listening to the state's club speeches, as well as the opposition questions, I want to ask the question: Does the opposition really care about the welfare of the Polish student - a student well prepared to enter the labour market, prepared for life in the surrounding reality? You're repeating here like I'm mantraing a phrase about chaos, that there's a rush. Therefore, Minister, I wanted to ask the question: in September 2017, will something change for the current high school students, for the current junior high students, if it is not so that the current sixth graders from primary school will not take the middle school exam, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And isn't it that if there wasn't a reform, these sixth graders would just go to another school, and they'd have to change? So this reform is really well prepared, it was announced by the Government of Law and Justice and will certainly be a good change for Polish education. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister, the harmful and extremely costly in financial terms, especially for local governments, and for the public - for students, parents and teachers - pseudo-reform is met with a huge protest from parents, local governments and teachers. You are misleading the public by saying that the reform has support, among others. teachers. I have before me one of the many writings of protesting junior high school workers, a letter from Junior High School 5 from my home town of Jaworzna, in which teachers emphasize their protest: "We are in favour of evolution rather than execution." Today, local government officials, among others. from the city of Sosnowiec, 50% of middle school teachers are at risk of losing their jobs as a result of the reform. 250 people. And my question to the Minister: What proposals do you have for teachers from Silesia, Zagłębie, from other cities in Poland whose jobs are at risk as a result of [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bad and harmful reform? Minister, there's still time to get out of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u240	Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! What is the opinion of the National Association of Governing HR, the Union of Polish Metropolis, the Union of Polish Towns, the Union of Polish Municipalities, the Union of Polish Cities, the Union of Polish Districts and the Union of Polish Voivodships, the groups of teachers - winners of the prize for the best teacher of the year, the National Board of WZZ - Solidarity - Education, the Polish Teachership Association, the Management Board of the Polish Pedagogical Society? Is it true that none of these actors support this reform? What do they think about the way and pace of its introduction? Aren't you worried about a public hearing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Piotr Uściński, Club Law and Justice, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A dozen years after the reform of middle school, it must be made clear that middle school has failed. For years, parents, teachers, and local government officials have been talking about it. Sam as the district's starost in 2012 at a local government conference organized in the column hall of the Sejm by the club Law and Justice I called for a return to the 8-year elementary school. The Poles voted in favour of this reform by voting for Law and Justice, and I appeal to the opposition to respect this. I have this question: What is the legal basis for the actions of the President of Warsaw, who spends public money, uses his local government position in a typical political way for the production of propaganda, which is supposed to convince the school community to get parents to protest against this reform? This is not the role of self-government, as Warsaw does. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u244	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform. Isn't Mr Gadowski here? [[I'm here.]] This, sir, is a little bit later in the evening. Everybody's tired here. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u245	Excuse me, Marshal. Unfortunately, it didn't seem right not to stand by the women who had a question for me. Excuse me. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, I wanted to ask you about those consultations you're conducting, I wanted to ask you about Silesia. Where were you, in how many towns, in how many counties? To this day, there are protests of teachers, children, parents, residents with signatures. Those protests I'm storing somewhere in my office are coming in hundreds, thousands. I'll give it to you. I wanted to read you some information that emerges from these protests: it will be another experiment on young people, and a few years will be doomed to learn in chaos and uncertainty. Eliminating middle school means taking down teams of teachers who have many years of experience working with young people in this difficult period of growing up. For 17 years [[♪ The bell ♪]] We developed our own methods of work, training and broadened our qualifications for middle school youth. These teachers also say: We are not supersatisfied with this, but we are in favour of evolution rather than execution. The reform is thoughtless, irresponsible, incalculable and without consulting teachers, parents and local governments. Let's save the future of education. That's what's coming to me, protests. I brought these from the county of Żorsko... [[Three signatures.]] ...from the municipality of Mszana...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u246	Mr President, we're done here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u247	...from Gogolov, from the district of Mikołowski. That's the consult, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you a few questions on behalf of children with disabilities. Minister! Children with intellectual disabilities, e.g. children with Down syndrome, whose education ends at the level of compulsory general education, i.e. after 9 years, can now have extended education at any stage by one year, i.e. up to a total of 11 years. Is it true that after the changes their education will last for a maximum of 9 years: 8 years of primary school plus an additional year, which is 2 years less than today? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Did you read the law?]] Another question about deaf children. Is it true that, according to the reform, a special curriculum for teaching deaf children is to be abolished, so that the reform will align deaf children with disabled children? But deaf children do not have intellectual disabilities. They just need another language to teach. Here's another question: Are programme coordinators [[♪ The bell ♪]] are prepared to create a sign language program that should be treated simply as a foreign language? And one more question about art schools. Is it true that the government has stated that for children with disabilities there is no place in the system of artistic schools? It is the only music school in Poland for blind children. Is it true that Krakow is going to pay PLN 2 million for an unlawful education subsidy? At the same time, children cannot be admitted to school healthy because it is in the school-education center for blind and visually impaired children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Changes in education arouse so many negative emotions among the opposition. You are making up examples of the tragedy that will occur after the implementation of this reform... [[We're not making this up.]] ...and at the same time you regret that, for example. vocational education does not meet the expectations of pupils or entrepreneurs. This reform is making such changes. Among other things, through the creation of professional schools, students will be educated together with entrepreneurs, who will then find a job in their profession. You use it to criticize these changes, false, lying information. Your Member said, among other things, about Krakow that Krakow died in the reform. I do not know which Krakow you are talking about, because Krakow is doing well, but the analysis of the information that has been carried out shows that about 300 teachers will be additionally needed for work after implementation of this reform. [[Voice from the room: Parents protest.]] One of the Members served [[♪ The bell ♪]] also false information about the Oświęcim district that the Oświęcim Starost is closing schools. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. The district council has adopted a resolution to save industry schools, creating an educational centre that will be training, among others. students with a professional profile. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u252	Mr Wojciech Ziamniak, Civic Platform Club. I would like to ask you another question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The village municipality of Kościan, where I had the pleasure of being a junior high director for several years, consists of 37 villages. As part of the previous education reform, it built two new secondary buildings and added full-size sports halls to them, adapting to the new structures school circuits, which assumed that from the circuit of six primary schools children would be transported to two separate secondary schools. It was a model solution. At one time, I invited the Minister to see it, and she hasn't made it yet, but maybe there'll be an opportunity. The new reform envisages the elimination of secondary schools and primary schools are to become 8-year-old schools. There's a lot of questions. First of all, what about the buildings of the decommissioned junior high schools? Are the fully equipped classrooms supposed to be empty? What about all the high school achievements: patron saint, banner, traditions, achievements? Why will it not be possible for the managing authorities, such as municipalities, to combine small primary schools with one unit in a yearbook into teams consisting of larger schools and branch schools with classes I-III and pre-school units? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Such a solution would allow for the combination of small classes, several- or several-members, for example. for well-equipped middle school buildings, leaving rooms in smaller schools for school rooms and finally making better use of educational subsidies. And what about teachers, e.g. natural subjects or music or computer science, who in primary school with one branch in the yearbook will find employment for 4 and 5 hours? [[Time.]] Reform is easier in cities than in provinces. Why are local governments deprived of influence over the organization of education systems in their territory? Thank you, and I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u254	Thank you very much. Modern Club and Mrs Monica Rosa, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Junior knows that when we introduce such serious educational changes, they should be introduced from the beginning of the educational cycle. Junior knows that for reform to be needed, profits should be greater than losses. Minister, maybe it's worth going back to middle school to find out these things, too. [[It wasn't there.]] Please tell me if it is true that when middle school was created, the reformers of these schools justified the improvement of educational opportunities, especially for children living in the countryside. Now are the chances of getting into good schools in larger cities in the case of children from rural schools, where there are less equipped workshops or these studios at all, where teachers connect several jobs or teach a few subjects, do not fall? Wouldn't elimination of junior high be just like closing a window to the world for them? Minister, erring is a completely human thing, it happens and it is possible, but to remain in such error [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's really a very big evil. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u256	Mrs Bernadette Krynick. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The reform that created the middle school was undoubtedly very costly, but did it bring the desired benefits? It was meant to improve the quality of education and education and improve the performance of students, but did it really happen? Junior high school is a pier where young people were gathered during the most difficult period of her life. A number of attacks, aggression, harassment, which often leads to suicide among minors, takes place in middle school. [[That's not true. You know that's not true.]] Serving children with a false sense of adultity and tearing children out of their environment during rebellion and puberty led to the generation of pathology among young people. [[You listen to your teachers and your students...]] Shut up, woman. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] The teacher at the new school needs time to meet the students...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u258	Member, allow me to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u259	Then I'm asking you to... [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u260	Madame, I would like to point out that you are in the Parliament's Chamber, and such phrases simply do not fit normally in the world. You may disagree, comment, but not like this. If you'll excuse me, if this happens again, I'm gonna have to take the consequences, which I don't want. Calm down. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Marshal, but you should also pay attention.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u261	Teachers need time to get to know the student, and they don't have enough time and there's no way to influence social development. The structured general knowledge, which should be passed on in a 4-year-old high school, was assigned to a three-year junior high school. In high school, the education of general education subjects lasts almost only 1 year. The scientific team is beating on the alarm. Every year, young people get less and less prepared. Rightly, junior high school opponents call this reform a crime committed on the Polish educational system. It's high time we brought back school in four-year-old high schools, which will well prepare young people to continue their studies in higher education. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[That was bad.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u262	Mr Marek Rząsa, the Civic Platform Club, please, another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u263	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I've been a teacher for 30 years. I survived 7 ministers for so-called. communes and 15 in free Poland. Several of them were beautifully inscribed in history cards, unfortunately some of them were found in the trash can of this story. I have experienced some reforms and changes in organizational and programming, smarter, dumber, more necessary or unnecessary, but all of them, Minister, had a common denominator: they led Polish education to a new path, led Polish education forward, despite many doubts, often introduced new and innovative solutions and ideas. This deformity, because it's hard to call reform, it doesn't introduce anything new, it reverses education. You're a brutal dictator destroying a dozen-year-old work of teachers, students and self-government. As a result of this change, Polish students will now compete with their peers in Europe for historical dates, not for computer bits. I'm not gonna ask you on purpose because you're not answering these questions at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, you will not register in the history of education, you will find her periphery as the biggest pest of Polish education. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u264	Please, Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Is it true that lies and quarters of truths of the opposition create informational chaos? Minister, is it true that the reform that is being implemented is necessary to improve the level of teaching? Minister, is it true that the reform is spread over five years? Minister, is it true that, as a result of education reform, existing school buildings will be used and no teacher will lose his job? Minister... [[That's not true.]] ...that due to more primary schools the amount of subsidies will be increased? [[It's not true. That's not true.]] Is it true, Minister, that the reform being implemented is well prepared and provides guarantees of stability and security and, above all, will raise the level of... [[That's not true.]] ...teaching in the Polish countryside... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...teaching Polish children and young people? Minister, is it true that the draft laws submitted are fulfilling the promises of law and justice to voters... [[Oh, yeah, that's true.]] ...who pass on the Minister through me... [[Voice from the Chamber: Poland in ruins, Mr. Your main password, Poland in ruins.]] ...deep thanks... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] ...as a result of the long-awaited reform of education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u266	I understand that these answers were immediately on the side of the Civic Platform, because we have Minister Shumilas there, but if you'll excuse me, these questions are to the current Minister, so the answers were... [[But the Member is no longer a minister.]] ...necessary. [[But I couldn't help myself, Marshal.]] Please, Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm also a sixth-grade parent who, unfortunately, will also have to because of this pseudo-reform... [[Voice from the room: Why, unfortunately?]] Unfortunately, I say, unfortunately. Okay, okay. I didn't bother you, okay? A sixth grader isn't a six-year-old, is he? It's so... [[It's a small difference.]] Exactly. Minister, what are the actual reasons for this reform, because so far you have not presented any specific analyses, calculations, studies from the entire population that would confirm the validity of these changes. You're referring to debates that haven't said anything about the school system, talking to the rectors who never said they had to eliminate middle school. Minister, how the new school system will guarantee better development and level of education than before, but specifically, I would like to hear the answer to this question. Which changes and how will affect [[♪ The bell ♪]] to improve its quality, and why didn't you want to work out common environmental improvements to the current system, and you'd rather turn the whole system upside down? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm lucky, or maybe not me, but my child, because the Minister's long-handed reform won't get him, because he's already in middle school, so he's pretty calm. [[Oh, sir.]] [[The day's not over yet.]] There's been a lot of talk here about the consultations you were conducting. You boasted in all the media about the number of consultations, conversations, discussions. However, I do not know why all the experts who were supposedly experts in these discussions and in these consultations ask you to remove them from the list of consultants, because they think it was just pure fiction. Today you invite your parents... [[Abuse.]] ...I don't know why you're asking. Minister, you are immune to all the comments and suggestions, so I do not know if there is any point in continuing these discussions, these consultations, since you have adopted a model and are consistent in implementing this bad reform, which will affect all children and the generations to come, especially since this reform will simply not be possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In three years, unscrew it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Moskal, Club Law and Justice. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are debating two draft laws: Education Law and Regulations introducing the Law of Education. The first question, Minister, is these two projects the result of what we committed to a sovereign over a year ago, because over a year ago the sovereign committed us to carrying out this reform, and it is the sovereign, and not some environments that are the most important here. Here's another thing. [[And today he doesn't want to.]] You don't want to, you tell yourself you are. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Sovereign... [[42%.]] ...but you're not a sovereign yet. [[We're here too.]] And yet another case, even today, is very simple. There are two laws and I'd ask anyone. of you: Who among you referred to these laws? Forms, phrases, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nothing else. Nothing else. [[That's not true. You're referring to us, not to the bill.]] I have one more question here, Minister. Namely, when it comes to the student, whether the student's well-being is taken into account here, because you said it, while some people do not listen at all, but criticize, not even referring to the bill, and that is sad. [[And what are you referring to? What are you talking about?]] There have been protests, but the protesters also do not know why they are protesting, and there are draft laws. That's what I'm talking about. Draft of this law, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2, Minister, is there a chance and possibility for bilingual troops to be from the first stage of education, not from the seventh or eighth grade? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u272	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u273	You have to be substantive, ladies. [[Applause]] [[And you're very substantive...]] [[But it bothered you, which means that everything isn't quite all right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u274	Mr Szymon Ziółkowski, the Civic Platform Club, is another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that the Act states that the Minister, in this case the Minister of Sport, will appoint classes and sports schools and schools of the Sports Championship on the basis of a regulation, I have a question when such a regulation will be prepared so that schools can prepare for recruitment, as these are however a little different recruitment systems than for ordinary primary schools. My second question is this. One argument against middle school was that middle school increases pathology and violence among students. How does this apply to the Ministry of Education's proposal that schools that have problems with the placement of two additional branches use junior high school buildings as a kind of primary school branch with classes VII and VIII? What difference does it make compared to self-involved middle school? Is there no longer a risk of aggression? And my third question, Minister. You keep saying that in connection with the reform, none of the teachers will lose their jobs. If the reality is different from the promises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the Minister resign? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u276	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, teaching religion in schools costs 1,200 million, and that's money, low costs, as I've heard. I'd like to ask you, Minister, if you'll introduce a mandatory prayer before class. I would like to ask you when religion will be eliminated from the Polish secular school, because I understand that... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: I am sorry, but I feel discriminated against.]] No, I don't care how you feel. I'd like to ask you... [[You're so rude, really.]] Listen to me and let me ask you a question. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It's just the ability to listen. [[Voice from the room: Get off this stage.]] You're very wonderful, and I like you very much, with your shouts. I'd like to ask you why you don't want to introduce... [[Voice from the room: Come on. Sit down.]] ...a secular school in the Polish state... [[Sit down!]] ...which under the Constitution is a worldly neutral country. Please tell me whether cultural education will be introduced instead of teaching religion in schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are churches everywhere in small towns, not even the smallest ones, but there are no libraries. I was in Namysłów recently, in a town... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ... 18,000, where there's no movie. I propose this money, which is invested in religion, devoted to cultural education and intellectual education, as well as to sexual education, which is lacking in the Polish school. I ask for a secular program at the Polish school. Do we have a chance to do this as citizens living in a country with secular criteria? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u278	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u279	One more question. Did you hear the suggestion of Professor Wojciech Browarny, a colleague of yours in college who was asking you to give her her master's degree? How do you relate to this? Tell me. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: You have to have it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u280	The next question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata, the Law and Justice Club. With regard to the Minister's remarks: unfortunately, I can only draw attention if the rules are violated, but if you are offended, there remains an ethics committee. You're welcome, sir. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: You say you fight hate speech and discrimination...]] Minister, on this committee, you can pick it up. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska:...it depends on it.]] [[Your marshal should be responding, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The need to repair the Polish school, I think, does not need to convince anyone - anyone who cares honestly about the future of Poland. All political forces probably agreed about this recently, as well as the fact that the middle school did not work out in Polish realities. The postulate for the repair of junior high schools or the liquidation of junior high schools was present in programs of many parties, maybe with the exception of the Platform, because the Platform never had a program... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ……]] ...but individual Members of the Platform also spoke in this spirit. Today's debate shows one thing: that you have not actually read these two projects. Unfortunately, you're raising the concerns that I understand, teachers, mostly middle school, you're freaking out. Your actions are absolutely irresponsible. I wanted to ask the Minister about flexible solutions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which are present in this project because teachers expect it. They, for example. they don't know that art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. The 2nd Education Law gives local governments the opportunity to act flexibly, where it will even be possible to create schools covering part of primary school classes, including branch schools. This is what many local governments, teachers, expect. I have committed myself - because I participate in such debates in very many junior high schools - to the task of this question, although I know that such solutions are present in this project. I think that a broad information campaign will make the whole educational community, the teachers' environment, the parents' environment support these changes that are necessary, and the Minister will go down as a reformer of the Polish school... [[Oh, I don't think that's gonna happen. It's not gonna happen.]] ...and the Member who gave the opinion here should be ashamed because those words were inappropriate. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: In two years, everything will be revealed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u282	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Club Civic Platform. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The proposed reform will have a huge negative impact. Firstly, we will lose quality of education, and secondly, it will have a terrible social impact, thirdly it will cause astronomical technical problems, and of course, fourthly, it will have a huge financial impact. Unfortunately, the reform carries an obvious risk of wasting a significant part of the PLN 8 billion that local governments have spent on investment in junior high schools since 1999. In my brief statement, because time doesn't allow me to do more, I want to focus on the social consequences. Why, Minister, do you not speak openly, honestly to parents, teachers, students of Polish schools, Polish elementary schools, that by eliminating junior high school, you absolutely do not restore the 8th grade primary school, such as in the general sense? Unconscious citizens can unfortunately believe you. The truth about your reform, on the other hand, is that the elementary school won't be eight-class. She's gonna be four years old in practice because you're gonna be in primary school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] move two yearbooks, V and VI classes, to the resurrected 7th and 8th classes - but to the buildings of the eliminated junior high school. And so well-known to us is the eight-class primary school, to which everyone has a sentiment, she will only have the I-IV class in her building. The same elementary school will have a second building, after junior high, where children from V-VIII will learn. Minister, the key question is, what are you going to do about the areas? Each school has its own circuit, because also the elementary school, and the middle school have their own circuits, which do not overlap completely, these are different circuits. Let me remind you that the way a kid from elementary school to school is 3 km, a junior high student - 4 km, that is guaranteed by the law. Minister, how do you plan to reconcile these issues? I understand that you will have to move the circuits of schools, and I would like to remind you that this is the re-inducing of the Polish-Polish War, because no conscious parent will agree to this... [[Your marshal, time.]] ...to deliver small children, I will add, 11 years old and 12 years old, with the fifth and sixth grade of primary school, to another building of primary school.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u284	Member, we are going to the end. You've already taken us over a minute more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u285	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u286	Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club - another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to the ruling party's questions, I have the impression that some of you may have read the bill. But did you understand her? A question for the Minister. Perhaps you would be kind to explain to your colleagues how many teachers and teachers in nature are in Poland who do not have the authority to teach biology, chemistry, physics or geography, and whether the Ministry of National Education therefore provides time for them to change their qualifications. Will most of them simply lose their jobs because nature will remain only in the fourth grade of primary school? In what way will teachers be chosen to stay and maintain their jobs? Will there be any special selection? What are the parameters that will determine that this particular teacher will stay in school and be able to work and another will not? And these specialist teachers, will they have to go all over the town to different schools to get a minimum of their salary? How are you going to organize this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice - another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to return to the past years of history, especially the last years, when the most inefficient ministers in Poland managed by education - first Mrs Hall, then Mrs Szumilas, and finally Mrs Kluzik. [[You'd better watch your mouth.]] What has led to these miserable governments in this segment? [[Who's the reviewer?]] They have led to the fact that we have only 4 hours in primary school in the entire 3-year cycle of education, i.e. only 4th grade - 1 hour, 5th grade - 1 hour, 6th grade - a maximum of 2 hours. That's what you've led to. You have led to the fact that in this 3-year cycle of teaching IV-VI there are only 3 hours of nature, which combines elements of geography, elements of chemistry and elements of physics. Three hours. You've eliminated specialized objects like geography, like chemistry, I'm talking about these senior classes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, what about the readings? What have you led to, what have you done with the canon of reading, in which you placed particular emphasis on these foreign, marginalizing the most beautiful Polish readings? And at the moment, students of primary school are only associated with telenovela. You've led the state to this situation. [[Applause]] Finally, one question, two questions for the Minister. Is it true that 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in our country led to the fact that since 2007 1040 schools have been liquidated in Poland? Is it true that during this period... [[No, I didn't.]] ...more than 42,000 lost their jobs. Teachers? This is what has led, ladies and gentlemen, to the poor rule of Mrs Hall, Mrs Shumilas and Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Let's see what happens to Mrs. Zalewska.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u290	Mr Ireneus Raś. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Lech Kołakowski, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Because your MP wasn't here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank Minister Annie Zalewska for her support in the reform of vocational education, which has been degraded for 18 years. As a result, hundreds of thousands of students, young Poles, were deprived of the opportunity to gain a profession in the existing educational system. As a result, they were forced to travel abroad and undertake the simplest work there. The Polish labour market, entrepreneurs and young Poles expect vocational training in the country, the introduction of this much-needed and necessary reform. Minister, I would like to ask how much money will be spent on industry schools and technology. What areas of vocational training do the Minister and the Government consider to be priorities? I would also like to add that the proposed reform of education - really, ladies and gentlemen - meets the expectations of parents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Perhaps not opposition politicians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u292	Mr Czesław Mroczek, the Civic Platform Club, please - another question. There's no envoy. That is precisely why, Mrs Skowrońska, this is a comment to Mrs Skobrońska - that there are no Members from you, they are deleted from the list. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The questions to the project are so much that within this minute you can't ask them all. I have a question about vocational education. Since 1 September 2017, trade schools are to be established. Today, parents are sitting with middle school students in the third grade, and they're wondering what the child will be doing from September next year, because this is the time when the profession is being chosen. Tell me how a parent might know which professional schools will operate in his city, in his district since 1 September 2017, while there is no law yet, local authorities do not know yet, and about the basics of vocational education the Minister has not said a half word. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What kind of schools are they gonna be? What graduates can be counted on by employers when it is not known what schools, with which studios, with which practices, according to what program basis? We don't even know the names of these schools. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice Club - another question. You're welcome. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u295	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is a pity that there are no two of my favorite adversaries, Mr Mieszkowski and Mr Jarubas, but perhaps to begin with. Mr Mieszkowski made an appeal, i.e. With a question to the Minister, shouldn't we say a prayer before each lesson begins. This is not a bad idea, in fact, because the prayer is not a bad thing, but I think it wouldn't be worse if we refused exorcism before every speech by Mr Mieszkowski, too. [[Applause]] [[This is inappropriate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u296	Mr President, please proceed to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u297	If Mr. Mieszkowski is still in the clowns, I'll give him some advice. Another point is the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u298	I think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u299	Minister, is Mrs Kinga Gajewska's statement an additional argument to consider the functioning of junior high schools in the Polish educational system? I understand that the essence of politics is a dispute, also a strong discussion, maybe even a naughty one, but Mrs.Kinga Gajewska's statement about the dead. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński in such an ironic form is simply inappropriate and rude. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Look who's talking.]] If you can hear me, if you have so much youthful courage in you, just come here and express your apologies and repentance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u300	You are very close to the end, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u301	Yeah, I'm on my way. On the other hand, when it comes to your comments on whether or not we are afraid of these poll posts, because there are a lot of people who are against educational reform, please, the best poll...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u302	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u303	...there were parliamentary elections. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u304	Thank you very much, but stick to your time. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Bożena Henczyc, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You've done a hell of a thing today. With your arrogance and shoes, you insulted your students, teachers, parents, even local governments. According to what you say, a Polish student is uneducated, unable to think or learn on his own. The Polish teacher according to you is uneducated and cannot pass on any knowledge. In a word: the darkness. I have the impression that you have no idea about education or the problems of Polish school or local governments. The Minister like a mantra repeats that she held a number of consultations and meetings, but I have the impression that the only result of these mythical consultations was the discovery by the Minister that all educational buildings have plumbing. Congratulations on that deep analysis. [[Applause]] [[And the hot water in the tap?]] Questions arise many times, but I can only, having a minute, with despair, ask why you want to turn over in such a hurry and ruin Polish education against everything and everything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[I do.]] And keep one thing in mind: no one but you wants this reform. And as the mother of sixth grade Kai, I don't agree that she's a guinea pig when it comes to your ridiculous ideas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u306	Thank you very much, Member. The Minister will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Forgive me for interrupting a very interesting discussion, but you are lying. In my speech there were several informations about the fact that the Polish teacher is the most educated. Therefore, in every sentence of my life, there is concern about this teacher, that he needs to be cared for, that he needs to be considered a reward for the teacher, that he should be equipped with study rooms, that there is concern for the student's well-being. I'm asking that your marshal doesn't allow for such unfettered statements. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u308	Thank you very much, Minister, but I will not censor Members' statements, that is not my role. I'm here to make sure that the deliberations go smoothly. [[Applause]] Please, the next question will be asked by Mr Bogdan Rzonec, the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u309	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Minister of Education 2 weeks ago, summing up the year of the rule of law and justice, said: every child deserves a good school. As with the 500+ programme for each child, this reform also forgot about the artisticly gifted children. Law and Justice, planning and rushing to reform education, forgot about the students of artistic schools that are not covered by this reform. It is absurd for a student of this school already in elementary school to have to decide what his professional future is to look like in order to condemn him to a drastic change in the environment for the last 2 years in the most difficult period of growing up. [[After all, you admit that education reform is needed.]] Minister, what are these children waiting for? This haste in education reform, ladies and gentlemen, is just like the Smolensk disaster - dozens of shortcomings, chaos, time pressure. [[A voice from the hall: Oh, my God!]] And where did that end up?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u310	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Andrzej Gawron, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, most of these statements of the opposition that we are hearing today are indeed suitable for the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union. It's a pity, because the bill is very important, it really reformes education, and it reformes comprehensively. It's not just a law that eliminates middle school, but creates what's important for me, four-year high school, five-year technique and two-cycle industry schools. Unfortunately, it's very bad with vocational education. There are no professionals in the labour market, as we already see, employers do not participate in the training process. I think that this reform in this dimension will change a lot, that industry schools, which will prepare people for specific professions, will do it very well. I have this question to the Minister: Is it precisely in this element that the reform will improve the situation of vocational education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! At first, I want to protest not to say such untruthful things about vocational education. In Jelenia Góra there are professional schools at a very high level, they are well equipped. Please don't generalize that it's going to be very good now. We have great vocational schools. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[And it's gonna get better.]] Question. In the assessment of teachers the basics of general education schools, and basically the foundation of these foundations - a lot of history, much less biology - will result in the fact that a good student, I emphasize, without tutoring in biology and chemistry will not get into medicine. That's what high school principals say. Does the Minister know that? That's one thing. Secondly, in recent years, high levels of European funding have been built and well equipped. Who will pay high penalties for failing to maintain the sustainability of these projects? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then what about sports, music and other arts schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u314	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u315	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen... I'm sorry. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the Minister why he is in such a hurry to destroy the middle school. A few years ago, you convinced all of us on TV that you needed years to consult to make any change in education. So the question is whether you happen to be eliminating well-functioning junior high schools at a chaotic and express rate to have an excuse to quickly introduce new textbooks, especially those in history. According to President Duda, I quote: this reform will finally teach this true story that will point out the right heroes. Is that what this is about at the expense of our children's education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u316	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by quoting, "You can't mess with education, we've declared it. You mustn't make noise... chaos. [[Oh, Gosia, Gosia.]] This is what Minister Anna Zalewska said less than a year ago, and today we have protests from teachers, parents and students. Minister, who said: "The number of lessons in history, physics, chemistry will increase." This increase will be a full guarantee that no one will be fired? So I have a question about what will happen to foreign languages. Now two foreign languages young people learn from the first class of junior high school, after their liquidation it will unfortunately change. There's one more thing. Who said these words after attending the Ministry of Education: "I will first talk to teachers and trade unions about losing middle school? What have these conversations been like so far? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why does PiS introduce educational chaos? I don't believe in any of your assurances. Why are you kidding students, teachers and parents? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u318	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u319	At first, I wanted to say that we are very sorry, Minister, that you are not fulfilling your electoral announcements. Today we have dealt with disregarding your electoral promise: 8,000. - a tax-free amount, I'm not talking about others. [[Voice from the room: 2 PLN for 8 years.]] But I would like to say that it is a shame and I am surprised that the Minister is walking like a ram and is trying to introduce this bad reform without consulting his parents, teachers, local governments. Such an old Roman maxim, which I wanted to dedicate to the Minister, says: Whatever you do, do wisely and see the end. And it's important that you think about it. There was no consultation in the regions. I went to the trouble of writing to all the local authorities in Podkarpacie. No, there were meetings. There is no program basis announced for August. He doesn't have any meetings with his parents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are no promises, no meetings with local government officials, because everyone is protesting. There's no money for reform. You're just ignoring it. And the sovereign, as Mr Moskal has said, has only chosen you, and today your reform certainly does not want you. Minister, why are you walking like a ram and why are you ignoring teachers and students? Because you said we're with education in Europe's tail. That's a disrespectful statement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u320	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I think there are two other vice-ministers and it would still be worth going to protesting parents. [[Applause]] I think it would be a good gesture, because they just expect clear, specific information. [[Respect.]] If we're prepared for this, I think it would just be worth showing up there. Minister, I also wanted to ask on behalf of the teachers who come and ask - and whether the Ministry can declare this - whether none of the middle school teachers will lose their jobs as a result of the end of junior high school. This is a key question that teachers simply expect answers to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform, asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u323	Dear Marshal! Minister! I, too, am joining this appeal of my predecessor. It's worth going out to people and, as you say, talking to people. I would like to encourage you very much. The education reform carried out in 1999 was preceded by a number of studies which clearly indicated the archaicity of the previous system. Research into the competence of middle school students carried out in the framework of the international skills assessment programme indicated that Polish middle school students are in the European lead. In turn, the report by the Institute of Educational Research indicates that peer violence is much more common in primary school than in middle school. So what are the real reasons behind this psychic project that you want to do forcefully, regardless of anyone and nothing? Does the parliamentary majority give you the right to take action, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will suffer the sad consequences of many years of schoolchildren and all educational workers? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u324	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Radziszewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We remember all the elections, famous slogan: Poland in ruins, and photographs actually against the background of ruins without looking, which next to it is beautiful. Today in this room we hear many times how Polish education is in ruins. If there's a false image, if there's a false diagnosis, it can't be a good treatment. School's not ruined. However, the state uses lies and lies, manipulations, misrepresentations, forgeries of reality, fictional experts, fictional support of local governments or unionists, scientists. The fictional sovereign supports you because you claim that everyone, dialogue is without dialogue and listening - without listening. Minister, this crusade against junior high and this chaos you want to bring to school. I'd really like you to talk to the sovereign. And so that you can tell me what you're basing your hurrah-optimism on. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I invite you from this place to my place, to my territory, to meet my teachers, my parents. Not with the president, the mayor of the PiS, not with the members of the Solidarity Party who support the PiS, but with the real living people... [[With the Poles.]] ...who are afraid, who are deeply concerned about what will happen to their children, when they go to the seventh grade, to the eighth grade, especially in poor rural areas like mine, where there is one middle school... [[We don't walk in cemeteries.]] ...and there are three small primary schools or two and one bigger in the municipality.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u326	Member, please go to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u327	You're welcome to join me. Ma'am, the head of the political office, please contact me next week. [[It's not the time to have a political director.]] Come, Minister, come to me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Gierada, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question: What have your Polish children done? What have your Polish children done that you are so determined to lead a crusade against them? After all, it is today that many Members of Law and Justice, the same people who 16 years ago, 17 years ago, argued that middle school is a great solution, that it is the return of Polish education to great prewar times. What happened to change your mind? After all, the Minister spoke a few years ago in opposition... [[Where?]] ...that only middle school needs to be built with money. You don't give that money today. [[Arthur, where are they sitting?]] [[Nowogrodzka.]] Minister, I can agree with one thing: in fact, professional education may not have been followed up over the years, but the Civic Platform has begun to change this. But instead of dealing with what's bad, you're changing what's good. It's kind of like the minister's got a headache, and you've been doing foot wraps. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Good.]] I will say at the very end, as a father of a six-year-old, Minister, that today, by taking my six-year-old daughter to a public school in Kielce to the first grade, I know that she is safe at breaks, that she is during these breaks with her peers. I know that after this reform it will be from the 14th - and 15-year-olds, and I don't know if it's safe for these kids and if their parents will be happy about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u330	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to refer to two of your statements. First of all, there's research that basic school is safer than middle school. We know that, which is why we made this reform 17 years ago. But you want to change that and make this school more dangerous. Why? We don't know that. Your second statement was that the students would not see that the reform was being implemented. Indeed, you are right, they will not see for sure in Warsaw in Białołęka, where the third shift will finish lessons at hours. 21. About an hour. 21 people don't see anything anymore. [[The weak president.]] And finally, the third thing. We're the ones who figured out how much it's gonna be in Warsaw. That'll be 200 million. Isn't it better to transfer that money to the school's educational role? And let me remind you, Minister, that in the previous term - and here we were in agreement - we said that the educational role is insufficient, that we need to talk about programmes. I didn't hear about the programs. I heard there was gonna be a speech counselor and a teacher at school. That's very good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we still need programs that weren't mentioned, and that's a shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u332	Thank you very much, Member. I invite you to speak for Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a teacher, I'm an agricultural entrepreneur, but if the changes to the law are like in agriculture, it's going to be a disaster, with 25 years back, I guarantee you. It is amazing that you are making changes to the law in every area. It's some kind of paranoia, some kind of disease virus. Have you finished any Harvards, Oxfords? [[Voice from the hall: Good Polish schools.]] Have the generations of Poles been rams so far, I apologize, without insulting these animals? Excellent speech by my colleague Krystyna Shumilas. Minister, I suggest you listen to this one more time - it's worth it. I think that this amount of documents that are needed to change education in Poland, to do this within 2 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Three weeks has nothing to do with good law, it's absurd. Although I am not a educator, I have raised three children, I am following it up and our young people in Europe are flourishing. This is demonstrated by various international organisations that are prepared to say so. So I don't understand what's going on. You don't have a panacea for every aspect of our operation. You're doing it notoriously. This is incomprehensible and absurd. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u334	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Porzuck, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Did Law and Justice promise to restore 8 years of primary school and 4 years of high school in elections that took place a year ago? Did the Poles choose Law and Justice? Didn't we talk less than a year ago in this room about another element of reform, that is, abolishing the school obligation for six-year-olds? We have also heard about pseudoreforms, and we have also heard that Poles do not want it. Is it true that parents 82% Six-year-olds have decided to act, as proposed by Law and Justice? In many municipalities, over 90% of the parents of six-year-olds decided that they would benefit from our offer, which means they supported us. And it's the same for middle school. [[You'll be surprised.]] [[You're changing all areas. This is sick.]] Minister, will the proposed solutions raise the level of education at the Polish school? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u337	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A lot of people have a dream to hit history cards. I don't know if the Minister has a dream like this, but I'm sure you'll find these cards of history. The anti-reform of education, which you force Poles to force, will one day be synonymous with chaotic reform, which is put into force, without consultation, without reflection... [[Are you a prophet?]] ...without preparation, introduced for political reasons, with tragic consequences, which is simply very bad. And that's what I hear in my district when I talk to residents, parents, self-government, teachers, whether in Bielsko-Biała or in Cieszyn, or in Czechowice, or in Pszczyna or in Żywiec. Not further. as today, the Council of the Municipality of Jasienica - also in my district - adopted a resolution, as another council which points to the weakness of this anti-reform. My question concerns small rural communities. These municipalities are expected to have a subsidy per pupil reduced by 1/9, because general education provided by the municipality will be reduced from 9 to 8 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, MEN envisages an increase in the number of school branches due to an increase in the number of classes VII and VIII in small rural schools, which have few school branches. I wanted to ask you: How will the burden on a small rural community increase due to the need to pay for this most expensive form of education, namely small branches in rural schools? Again, I'm not talking about these special grants, I'm talking about whether you even know they're blowing up the budgets of small rural communities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u338	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Unfortunately, I'm not a graduate of middle school, I'm a graduate of this old elementary school, so I have a terrible problem understanding the Minister... [[Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, ……]] That's why I'm gonna try to ask. Let me start with your quote: Parents love their children and pay taxes because they want a good school for their children. Then why are these parents on the street today? Then why aren't they happy about getting this good school? [[Not all of them.]] Why, on Saturday, despite such heavy rain and cold weather, were parents, grandparents, and teachers in protest standing on the street? I don't understand. I don't understand why the Minister of Education, the person who should know the school, doesn't know that there was a library+ program that made there are more digital libraries, that we have studios in junior high. The Minister doesn't know. [[25%.]] The Minister says he doesn't have a professional school. But in this reform you are proposing, the current vocational schools are only given a new name. Does the Minister know that these professional schools are training in 203 professions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It'd be good to know. You have said many times that in various fields we are in the tail of Europe, talking about the Polish school, about Polish teachers. I think it's disrespectful, Minister, disrespect for self-government, for teachers who work in schools today, for those who really care about this school. I don't understand how you can talk about putting out middle school, in a situation where all of Europe shows and studies show, and tests show that our middle school students are really at the forefront. Explain one last thing to me. How can you create a few thousand new jobs? Where are these new jobs gonna be? I'd really like to know, because until now, teachers are fired, and you say you're going to hire them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u340	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u341	If I understand, maybe I'll admit you're right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u342	Thank you very much, Member. And the last question is asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u343	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not agree with these inept governments, because I will remind you that there are crèches in urban and rural communities, kindergartens for gold with pre-school grants and with English in the program base and there are many other good solutions. We have a promotion in the PISA test from 14th place in 2003 to 4th place in 2012, from reading with understanding, and nature is on 3rd place in the European Union. Minister, this is a miracle of Polish education. But I'm gonna ask you a question about reform, which is in the region, because it's yesterday. a resolution of the commune council. Minister, I have specific questions for the Minister so that I can come back and have some concern for the Minister and mine. Two proposals are accepted: one is that all small rural schools will be transformed into branches I-III and the other is that three schools will be transformed into branches and only two in rural areas will have classes I to VIII. Here's the thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That there are no children in class I today, that there will be 8 in class II, and in class... In the first class will be next year 8, the second class will not be, in the third class will be 12. Will these classes be able to be combined? Will it be possible to fire 20 teachers? Because those are the proposals of today's government. Minister, these are fundamental problems because local government officials are based on economic costs. Please give me precise information so that tomorrow or Friday I can come back and at a meeting with the teachers, with the local government, with the councillors, tell me if the curatorium will agree that these branch schools may exist, because they will only survive, they will only be 2 years, then they will simply expire, let us not deceive the inhabitants of rural areas. Will there be fired teachers, and the possibility of combining classes, and administrative staff? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u344	Thank you very much, Member. The Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by handing over a set of signatures that have affected Mrs Mirosława Nykiel's hands, because I do not know if there are any statements about the use of personal data. It's not addressed to me, I'm afraid GIODO would have a lot of comments about these signatures. I'll give it to you personally. I'm not gonna give it up like that. I'm sorry. [[There is no Member.]] [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska comes down from the speaker and puts a postcard with signatures on the place of Mrs Mirosława Nykiel]] So please, ladies and gentlemen, respect the signatures of the citizens, ask them how they can be disseminated, how they can be delivered. I do not feel authorized to have PESELs, personal data of citizens. Of course, I will try to answer questions as widely as possible, but as there are still different kinds of names of scientists, there are different kinds of disqualifications of our references to authorities, to research - I have talked about the international PISA study many times - it is a handful of quotes with names of those who exchange. Among other things, Zbigniew Sawiński in the text "Gymnasia against social inequalities" (Education of 2015) writes: "The results of PISA research from the years 2000 to 2012 do not give any reason to believe that the reform of secondary education has contributed to reducing inequalities in Polish education. During the middle school period, the importance of social origin for pupils' achievements remained similar. The PISA study does not provide convincing evidence that the impact of origin on the choice of secondary school has decreased (p. 51. Another point: the PISA study provides a number of arguments for non-educational sources of school inequality, which explains the small possibility of tackling these inequalities through educational reforms. 51. It's about middle school research, not the education system. Roman Dolata also describes the process of student differentiation and selection on the basis of the results of national external exams, examination and examination: The analysis of the results of national exams conducted at the end of primary school and at the end of secondary school leave no doubt: the 1999 reform launched a massive, hidden selection process at the threshold of junior high schools in large cities. As a result of this process in large cities, around 1/4 of the school population was created by a selection system at the age of 12. In rural areas, it is about 35% The school population is developing a system close to the establishment of a single school. At the same time, please, Mr Bogusław Ślnyrski (the fundamental issues of social pedagogics, the year 2013) define his text: "Political and scientifically uncritical monitoring and evaluation of educational data." Example: The best social students who achieve the best results go to general education schools, slightly weaker to technicians and the weakest to vocational schools. In the case of high school students who are a candidate for their high school achievements, the education of their parents is so important for lifelong education, as they say. international... [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: But he didn't write anything about the liquidation of junior high schools.]] ...research - in the case of pupils of primary vocational schools: professional status and type of work carried out by parents (p. 20. When it comes to, for example, o reading - implementation of the basics of general education, conclusions of studies carried out by the IBE special didactics team of 2015, collective study - 5% the total of 12-year-olds surveyed, i.e. primary school graduates, and 2% of them the total number of girls studied and 8% Boys, he declares he doesn't read at all, not even school reading. In the middle school group, the percentage of people who do not read at all increases to 14% total subjects - 7% Girls and as many as 20% of boys. In the countryside as much as 25% Fifteen-year-olds don't read books. The most important indicator of belonging to the group of non-readers is the size of home and student books. [[Now they're gonna start reading?]] He doesn't read every third junior high student whose house doesn't have a home library. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have here a repetition of what I have already analysed, speaking of international research. Are Polish students unhappy at school? - asks Michał Sitek, IBE 2012. The best view of the school is the Finns, the worst Poles. The majority of Polish 15-year-olds agree that the school did not do much to prepare them for adult life. The biggest percentage of our young people also thinks that school is a waste of time - the first place among OECD countries. In this case, Poland was the leader among OECD countries on the basis of the 2009 PISA study. And, ladies and gentlemen, we can quote - if you look at the results of all the studies, which were spent 350 million PLN, and it is worth using them to actually work for the sake of the Polish school, Polish student and Polish teacher... At the same time, with regard to the institute, meetings with scientists, I would like to recall today's meeting at the IBE, where the mathematicians clearly said that they could not ask for a meeting in order to examine what to do to improve the quality of education in mathematics, which we have already discussed many times today. And now by answering a few of your questions - we say and stress all the time that we have discussed, debated, everything is documented, shown, counted, statistics are presented to you. I'm gonna tell you, and I'm gonna expand on this research, this consultation. Law and Justice have actually visited every village in recent years. At every meeting, there were these problems, these requests to build a four-year high school for general education, to build a vocational school, so as not to forget rural schools. Indeed, more than a thousand disappeared from the face of the earth, even though they were mostly schools built by citizens, by the inhabitants of a given village, and more than 42,000. Teachers lost their jobs. It's also the result of demographic depression. We notice this rather than, we want it to be an inspiration for Polish local governments, for the Polish parliament, so that for the next many years really make the school safe, the quality of education is excellent and the teacher felt safe. The state often raises the teacher's question here. I also care about the teacher's future, see rather than demographic and see what's going on in the system. As I stated clearly, as a result of the reform, when it comes to giving parents free choice or six - if a seven-year-old goes to school, that's what happened, there are actually extra jobs. In the same way, we use the whole system, in Gorzów, in Płock, in Lublin or in Częstochowa. Therefore, if you'll excuse me for any Member who asks for his own municipality, I'll ask for information on what municipality it is. Then we are able to show you how responsible you are about the number of jobs, what opportunities and what money the government has. I remind you that in school we are together with the local government, it is described in the constitution, it is described in several laws. The roles are divided, which one of us is responsible for what we do. When it comes to questions about the fact that the local government is contributing to education, these are wrongly asked questions. First of all, there's no adding to education. Education costs money, but it's added value, priceless value. Discussions with some local governments are actually difficult when we count money and show ourselves that these financial issues that they raise result from the fact that they forget that they have their own task in the form of preschool education, so it is described in the Act. We feel responsible for their own task, for the task of self-government, so the six-year-old will be covered by education subsidy, the remaining kindergartener is 1370 PLN of support for the commune as part of his own task. We have had many difficult meetings during the debate before the change, because it is indeed new, it has been a tedious consultation, we have responded to all the comments, we have accepted more than 100 comments, and very often this happens, because there are so many actors that we need to seek compromise. You also ask about young people, about children. I often go to school, in elementary school I also ask children and, believe me, children in sixth grade just don't want to change. And we're offering them no change. They'll stay with their beloved teacher, stay in the same environment... [[That's not true what you're saying, that's not true.]] ...at his own school. [[Voice from the room: True.]] [[Children will be transferred to other schools.]] At the same time, at the Minister of Education, the Youth Council was set up and despite all kinds of doubts, it gave a positive opinion on the change in education law. You're worried, and we're worried, of course, that teachers change very often, that they work together. Yeah, it's the result of demographics, because even if we're discussing middle school that was supposed to stabilize the teacher's financial situation, the middle school was supposed to count at least 400 students, and at the moment the average is 150. This is simply the effect of demographic depression and lack or in recent years the number of pupils has decreased by 33%. But as many Members have rightly said, the most important is the student, the system is created for the student and we say that the student will have to be reached, also in this small school think about the laboratory, think about these offices. I will remind you once again, because many Members have repeated the question, even though I have spoken about it several times - we have precisely counted these offices: 27% in middle school, 18% at primary school. This is indeed a challenge. We have this challenge discussed initially with several institutions. We want to build such a program, actually we don't even need a program, we want to start slowly supporting schools in buying such laboratories. The centre of Copernicus has very interesting proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, you say very often that this is a very rapid change and that we have actually discussed it too briefly. Well, for 17 years we've been discussing, we've been trying to change junior high in different ways, and it's been a long time since there's been this middle school offered by Minister Handke. I also want to go back to the awkwardly quoted 2009 interview, because I am doing exactly what I said in this interview, and I encourage you to question the entire interview. I stressed, as I said earlier in my speech, that I did not suspect any minister of education, so that in his actions he might have the intention of deteriorating the education system. The same was true of Minister Handke, who actually planned for high school middle school. He forgot about the money, therefore, among others. The local government did, and that's not the way they behaved. At the same time, it turned out that this stage of education simply hinders education. We can't really bother our kids every three years and tell them we're starting over. There were, of course, questions about non-public schools run by legal persons. Clearly, clearly, it was very flexible with all entities operating non-public facilities. First of all, five years, second of all, the facilitation of the fact that a local government that has the urge to not put a non-public institution on the school network will not be able to refuse a permit for five years. It will be a very simple addition to the proposal. It is not true that these schools will have to have class I from September 1st, absolutely not. They just have to report to the lead authority and tell them that they're on the school network. And they have five years to actually build an 8-year-old elementary school. It's just money for these organizations, for these entities. There were also questions about buildings, of course, about investments. Everything is a matter of who owns the building. If it is a local government, it has unlimited opportunities, because it is its property, therefore it is always worth raising capital, it is worth taking care of it. I think that if these are co-operative non-public institutions, the government will definitely lean over needs. There were also such diwags that we live in different realities. Yeah, I've had this impression for eight years, and I feel like you're still living in the reality in which you lived. [[Applause]] Questions, please, bilingualism, sports classes, art schools, art schools. Nothing, ladies and gentlemen, does not disappear, everything is strengthened. [[Details.]] Of course, at the moment there is a final regulation on sports schools, sports branches, sports championships. When it comes to bilingualism, first of all, it will appear in the seventh grade. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just an offer for capable children, children capable of any circuit, who will actually have the chance of such bilingual wards. At the moment, the self-correction is being prepared, because many ambassadors have made a suggestion to us as to whether we could provide financial support for the so-called. Preliminary troops. There is our agreement, and you will also be proposed such an amendment, because in the case of bilingual secondary schools it was very often that the bilingual high school was actually one-third of the bilingual middle school population. It was an excellent opportunity to avoid peripherality. Every child is to have the opportunity to develop his or her abilities in the school where he or she is staying, in which he or she is studying. Also when it comes to music schools, we also strengthen art and music, tomorrow you will see everything. In primary school we strengthen artistic objects, as we strengthen geography, biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics and history. Don't worry about natural teachers, these are people entitled to teach biology, geography, and I remind you that because we are making a very evolutionary change, for the next two years, if the High Sejm adopts the Education Law in this shape, it will be class V and class VI, where nature will still have to function. I also want to say, by stopping at music schools, that music schools have not noticed the reform before, because we have six plus six stages there, but now, realizing how important the needs of parents are, how important the needs of children are, of course, we are already after talking to the Minister of Culture, there will be classes VII and VIII in the music school, where there is general education. There will, of course, be second-grade exams, but there will be an opportunity to pass just these 2 years of education in the 7th and 8th grade. There were also references to specific places where I was. Of course, I come not only where I'm invited. Yes, I often had to reach out to all corporations because I had been talking to them since December, because very often it happened that the day before the meeting I found out that there was such a meeting that it was prepared and that I had to take the floor there. I've been disciplined, actually visited every corporation, talked to them and talked to them all the time. We have certain obligations arising from the procedure of regulations or laws, we exchange different opinions. When it comes to curatoria, about strengthening the curatoria, yes, we are strengthening the curatoria, because if there were no voivodeships in some school, there were no curators and visitors in some community, they have this task... Your Silesian curator visited every municipality, each municipality has a briefcase, has information, has been diagnosed with problems, declared that it is there, together, jointly analyze the change of system. And I would like to say, perversely, that if local governments are numbered, it means that they have a changed school system and that they really do, as in most cities and towns, realize that we need to prepare for this change. There are teams called up, very often curators, visitors are invited to join these teams. Of course, they are particularly concerned about self-starting, supporting them in these transformations. Therefore, if a local authority wants or wishes to take advantage of this situation - I do not believe it because I judge the local authorities very well - and actually make redundancies, it is not that simple, because there are several safeguards in the law, and furthermore, please, there is a positive opinion of the curator here. Together with the curator, together with the Visitor will be established a network of schools. In addition, I do not know if you have noticed, but there is a trade union there, which will also support directors, local government officials and curator in the care of teachers. And as it was in Częstochowa, ladies and gentlemen, we use the same data. Mr. President, his services, the directors are obliged to enter real data into the information system. Therefore, when all the schools, all the teachers, all the jobs and all the rooms are counted, and - that is what the Member asked - there is a clear difference, because this difference exists across Poland, between the number of children in primary school, which is much smaller and the number of children in junior high schools - and the law says that they have to move to the next classes in the same environmental groups - it is obvious from simple mathematics that thousands of additional branches and thousands of jobs for teachers will be created. And you also asked about Sosnowiec, who was mentioned here. Your P.O.'s gonna be asked to talk to the president about how to help the president with his education law. You also use repeated, false information that no one has spoken to anyone. We talk to everyone, also teachers of the year. Please read in the Koszalin Voice that one teacher of the year expresses not only support for changes in education law, but also says that he has been waiting for many years for such changes. In fact, we agreed with the teachers of the year at very many points. I'm, like them, a teacher, so there were no major problems here. We are talking about very similar challenges, and we want the school to be good. As far as children with disabilities and children with special needs are concerned, the age of 24 years is maintained here. Nothing changes at all, there is no reduction in the age to which the disabled is under the care of the education system. We want to strengthen this, we are designing various changes in the laws announced by the Prime Minister Szydło, which are related to the Law. And so now: when it comes to disabled children who learn in artistic schools, the reform absolutely doesn't change anything. The music school in Krakow carries out its activities and can accept children with disabilities as well as children with disabilities. The activity of the school is absolutely not at risk. As far as the curriculum for deaf students is concerned, it is the same as for disabled pupils. Sign language lessons in case of students' needs are conducted and will be conducted, among others. as part of a revalidation. There was still a question about the flexibility of transformations. We have the impression that we have noticed this, because in the process local governments asked about it, they showed it on the example of their local governments, so it seems that we have transformations shown as flexible as possible, so that we absolutely do not bind hands to local governments, but subject to such discipline, responsibility for teachers and children. And once again, there's information that says that there's going to be a shorter period of child support. Absolutely not. That's what it's for, among other things. A six-year-old is included in the education grant. After 2080 independent junior high schools have been extinguished, and, I hope, the creation of an additional 2080 primary schools, with one change, will include nine years of education, for two transitional years - ten. It's very big money for local governments. And there are once again some questions that I feel obliged to answer again. Education subsidy is dependent - and everyone who knows the rules knows it, and I think that each Member, every self-governmentman and every director knows how the educational subsidy is constructed - on the number of children, on the number of teachers. The fact that local governments are supported by subsidies to a six-year-old is actually an excellent complement to this subsidy in relation to demographic stagnation. The budget includes additional appropriations of more than 400 million for valorisation, 900 million directly earmarked for adaptation and conversion, and a budget reserve of 0.4% is ready. where there's 168 million. I have good news for you that today all funds have been released; for the first time in many years, as regards the budget reserve of 0.4%. , all of the local government's requests have been met, including the local government's proposals, which had... [[The whole subsidy has always been used.]] ...the honor to welcome the pilgrims on World Youth Days. [[It's normal.]] At the same time, it was again invited to meet with the parents. I think it's a good place for this to be the Ministry of Education or the Center for Dialogue. I repeat my request. My parents and I hope to build a good school for the good of their children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister, what about the subsidiaries?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u346	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u347	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am honored to present my position on the draft Education Law Act, which is included in print no. 1030. The law on the education system, which has been in force since 1991, has been constantly amended over the years. This has made one of the most important areas in the country - the Polish education is regulated by records that are fragmented and do not fully keep up with the spirit of the present. This draft law covers only part of the elements previously regulated by the Act on the Education System, as well as the provisions contained in the Act of the Teacher Card. Projectors plan to regulate other issues in the Education Finance Act and how to assess the achievements of pupils, including their examination system. In particular, the PiS government law introduces solutions for the new school system and related modifications in the organisation and functioning of schools and educational establishments. The reform includes the introduction of: 8-year primary school, 4-year general high school, 5-year technical school, 3 year first-year professional school, 3 years special school for work, 2nd-year professional secondary school and post-secondary school. I am very pleased with the many changes in vocational education, which will, above all, enable graduates to choose different professional paths. The project envisages the creation of a 3 year professional first-year school, which will allow you to obtain a diploma confirming professional qualifications and a basic professional education. Graduate of the first-grade professional school will be able to start a professional career or continue to study in a second-year professional second-grade school. This change is supposed to make vocational schools not second choice schools. I hope that the narrowing of professional schools to single-skill professions and a two-qualified tech school will encourage young people to study in schools teaching a particular profession. In connection with the transformations into a school system, the Act also introduces new educational levels, which have been defined as basic vocational education and vocational secondary education. The bill also contains provisions aimed at rebuilding the role of the school in shaping the attitudes of the young man, as well as rebuilding the social prestige and authority of educational institutions. A special role in the Act was given to education, which was placed among the specific tasks of the educational system. The Act places a great deal of emphasis on educational-profiling activities. Each school and institution of the educational-profiling programme, which aims to build the right identity of the young man, has been introduced. This is also encouraged by the introduction to school activities of volunteering, which will educate young people's ability to participate in society. Volunteering is also expected to develop interpersonal competence, sensitivity and empathy in young people. Due to the reorganization of the Polish school, the basics of the curriculum and the framework of the teaching plans are also changing. An important change is the emergence of hours in the field of professional advice. In my opinion, this is an important issue that will prepare young people to enter the labour market in an era of changing labour market demand and dynamic changes in the economy. In line with current migration trends, the projectors have assumed the possibility of setting up a preparatory unit for the children of Polish migrants and foreigners by the school's authority, to effectively meet the needs of a student coming from abroad and to enable him to quickly join regular schooling with Polish students. The Act also includes changes to the pedagogical supervision exercised by the education curatoria. In line with them, a role supporting pedagogical supervision has been strengthened, which is expected to contribute more effectively to improving the quality of school work, among others. through the establishment of visiting areas. The proposed law also contains provisions concerning the statutes which were already regulated by the Regulation. The project contains regulations specifying the mandatory content which the school must standardise in its statutes. They were supplemented, among others. about the organisation of school work, the scope of tasks of teachers and other school staff, the tasks of teacher teacher and teacher librarian. The statutes will also include provisions on the organisation and implementation of voluntary activities. The Statute requires students to comply with the conditions for placing and using phones and other electronic devices and to specify the forms of justification for the absence of adults. In my opinion, a very important change in the procedated law is the extension of aid for Polish and Poles living abroad and children of migrant workers in teaching Polish language, history, geography, Polish culture and other subjects taught in Polish in schools operating in educational systems of other countries or taught in other forms by social organizations registered abroad. The proposed law contains such provisions as have so far been lacking in educational regulations. As a person who is always involved in volunteering and building our national identity, these are the changes that are most enjoyable. I am convinced that thanks to the new regulation the Polish school will meet the requirements of the modern world, and its graduates will find themselves perfectly. thanks to professional advice in the realities of the modern labour market. The Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceedings of the law. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am honored to present my position on the draft Education Law Act, which is included in print no. 1030. The law on the education system, which has been in force since 1991, has been constantly amended over the years. This has made one of the most important areas in the country - the Polish education is regulated by records that are fragmented and do not fully keep up with the spirit of the present. This draft law covers only part of the elements previously regulated by the Act on the Education System, as well as the provisions contained in the Act of the Teacher Card. Projectors plan to regulate other issues in the Education Finance Act and how to assess the achievements of pupils, including their examination system. In particular, the PiS government law introduces solutions for the new school system and related modifications in the organisation and functioning of schools and educational establishments. The reform includes the introduction of: 8-year primary school, 4-year general high school, 5-year technical school, 3 year first-year professional school, 3 years special school for work, 2nd-year professional secondary school and post-secondary school. I am very pleased with the many changes in vocational education, which will, above all, enable graduates to choose different professional paths. The project envisages the creation of a 3 year professional first-year school, which will allow you to obtain a diploma confirming professional qualifications and a basic professional education. Graduate of the first-grade professional school will be able to start a professional career or continue to study in a second-year professional second-grade school. This change is supposed to make vocational schools not second choice schools. I hope that the narrowing of professional schools to single-skill professions and a two-qualified tech school will encourage young people to study in schools teaching a particular profession. In connection with the transformations into a school system, the Act also introduces new educational levels, which have been defined as basic vocational education and vocational secondary education. The bill also contains provisions aimed at rebuilding the role of the school in shaping the attitudes of the young man, as well as rebuilding the social prestige and authority of educational institutions. A special role in the Act was given to education, which was placed among the specific tasks of the educational system. The Act places a great deal of emphasis on educational-profiling activities. Each school and institution of the educational-profiling programme, which aims to build the right identity of the young man, has been introduced. This is also encouraged by the introduction to school activities of volunteering, which will educate young people's ability to participate in society. Volunteering is also expected to develop interpersonal competence, sensitivity and empathy in young people. Due to the reorganization of the Polish school, the basics of the curriculum and the framework of the teaching plans are also changing. An important change is the emergence of hours in the field of professional advice. In my opinion, this is an important issue that will prepare young people to enter the labour market in an era of changing labour market demand and dynamic changes in the economy. In line with current migration trends, the projectors have assumed the possibility of setting up a preparatory unit for the children of Polish migrants and foreigners by the school's authority, to effectively meet the needs of a student coming from abroad and to enable him to quickly join regular schooling with Polish students. The Act also includes changes to the pedagogical supervision exercised by the education curatoria. In line with them, a role supporting pedagogical supervision has been strengthened, which is expected to contribute more effectively to improving the quality of school work, among others. through the establishment of visiting areas. The proposed law also contains provisions concerning the statutes which were already regulated by the Regulation. The project contains regulations specifying the mandatory content which the school must standardise in its statutes. They were supplemented, among others. about the organisation of school work, the scope of tasks of teachers and other school staff, the tasks of teacher teacher and teacher librarian. The statutes will also include provisions on the organisation and implementation of voluntary activities. The Statute requires students to comply with the conditions for placing and using phones and other electronic devices and to specify the forms of justification for the absence of adults. In my opinion, a very important change in the procedated law is the extension of aid for Polish and Poles living abroad and children of migrant workers in teaching Polish language, history, geography, Polish culture and other subjects taught in Polish in schools operating in educational systems of other countries or taught in other forms by social organizations registered abroad. The proposed law contains such provisions as have so far been lacking in educational regulations. As a person who is always involved in volunteering and building our national identity, these are the changes that are most enjoyable. I am convinced that thanks to the new regulation the Polish school will meet the requirements of the modern world, and its graduates will find themselves perfectly. thanks to professional advice in the realities of the modern labour market. The Free and Solidarni Circle asks for further proceedings of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u348	My question is to clarify the article. 207 point 2, which states: In the school years from 2017/2018 to 2021/2022, the local government unit may indicate to pupils branches of classes VII and VIII respectively the place where the school is to be carried out in another public primary school run by that unit located in that local authority unit than the primary school in which these pupils live. In this case, the provision of Article. The 130th Education Law does not apply. Is it possible, on the basis of this provision, to create branches of classes VII and VIII where there are no divisions IV, V, VI in this finger? On a specific example. Secondary school in the 2017/2018 school year is attended by students of classes II and III of secondary school. The primary school in this building runs Class I. Or at the same time on the basis of Article. 207 point 2 of the primary school can create classes VII? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u349	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle regarding the draft law implementing the Education Law. This law is first and foremost clear and proposes solutions that will avoid chaos in transition and thus perhaps concern about changes in education. According to the draft law Education law in Poland will change the education system, which requires precise guidelines which will allow for the transformation of the school structure, especially during the transitional period of the act, and guarantee the proper conditions for fulfilling the school obligation and the obligation to teach all pupils. The provisions of this Act are also intended to help local authorities in the proper supervision of schools, which will be managed by checked and adequately prepared directors for this task. In order to avoid procedural errors and unnecessary chaos, the developer proposed a two-step procedure in the draft law to adapt the school network, whose amendment will be assessed, among others. the relevant education curator. An important change in the functioning of the school itself will be the amendment of the statutes which must take into account the amended rules and the local needs of the school community concerned. Changes concerning teachers themselves and the Teacher Card Act are important in the process. In the project, the government, in my opinion, took particular care of teachers. A number of transitional provisions have been laid down to allow greater flexibility for the teacher in maintaining school work. During the transition period the teacher will be able to fill in another school even if he does not have a 1/2 penny in his home institution. Specific provisions were also laid down for the allocation of over-sized hours during the 2019/2020 school year so that excessive overtime would not prevent another teacher from working at the school. In addition, school heads are required to inform the relevant school curator about the vacancies they will provide on their website. An important change, which was introduced in the context of systemic changes, is the possibility for the school principal to check whether the newly employed teacher is in the Central Register of Disciplinary Decisions. I hope that a government that changes the issue of education that is so important for many Poles and Poles will very quickly prepare a framework of teaching plans and curriculum bases to address the concerns of teachers, parents and students themselves. The Free and Solidarni Circle believes that changes in education are necessary and will therefore vote in favour of further proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the programming bases are prepared and will be announced by the end of November, including the framework curricula? Have the amendments tabled by the trade unions been included in the draft budget? Does the government intend to monitor the implementation of the reform by local governments and how? Will the reform put in place mean strengthening vocational education and technicians? In the context of the middle school dispute, I would like to ask, is it true that 1146 schools were closed in 2008 and without any reform of the education system?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u351	The discussion requested that the draft laws in prints 1030 and 1031 be rejected at first reading. We will vote on this proposal in the voting block. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the Senate resolution on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal (prints Nos 963 and 1052). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] At the same time, I would ask Members to silence the talks. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u352	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the work of this committee on the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal. The committee was held on 16 and 23 November. 13 amendments to the Act and a number of legislative amendments were tabled during the committee's work. The Commission proposes to adopt the draft law contained in the report and to reject all 13 amendments that constitute minority proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u353	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u354	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal on content after work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 16 and 23 November. It is worth pointing out, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal is in full compromise, because it contains a number of comments which were previously raised on the occasion of the procedure of earlier laws on the Constitutional Court. This is the fulfilment of some of the demands, firstly, of the Venice Commission, secondly, of the expert team at the Marshal of the Sejm, thirdly, of some of the opposition's comments. During its work on the July 2016 Act, the opposition protested against the termination of the designation of three candidates as President, who may have little support for the general assembly of the tribunal. Our response to this project is clear. The project assumes that only those judges who have at least five votes can be candidates. Another point raised by the opposition is that the three judges should indicate the full composition of the case. Our answer in this matter is also clear - we removed this record. When working on the July Act, it was also pointed to queuing cases. Our answer - this principle has also been abandoned. In addition, the Act provides for the term of office of the President of the Tribunal, indicating that it is 6 years, and indicates who is the head of the Tribunal until the election of the new President after the end of the term of office of the current President. To all of this, to these concessions, the opposition has an unchangeable position - i.e. non-acceptance, political upheaval and disagreement about any record. The question should be asked: Why, where did this stand come from? It is probably about fulfilling the last will, or asking President Rzepliński to give him a chance to anoint his successor so that he can still vote, he can still participate in the election of his successor. Here, unfortunately, there is an analogy to the situation of June 2015, when it was tried in advance to select judges, so now it is proposed to choose the President of the Tribunal as a reserve. Unfortunately, our agreement cannot be. The next amendment you have tabled is a change in the term of office of the President from 6 to 5 years. We, when proposing the six-year term, used the example and model of the Supreme Court Act, where the first Supreme Court President has just defined a term of six years. The State pointed out in amendment 5 years without indicating what this would serve and why this solution is better. I would like to point out that you do not want to help solve the constitutional problem that you yourself caused less than a year ago. The Law and Justice Club will be behind the project in its current content. I would also like to make three amendments, small minor amendments, which clarify a number of provisions of the Act. The first amendment is an amendment which complements and indicates the possibility for the court to conduct its cases and to represent him externally by the Judge designated, with the highest internship, where both the Vice-President and the Judge appointed and authorised to act on behalf of the President cannot act. Another amendment, the second amendment, clarifies that a letter which does not meet the requirements of substance or form may be returned, or in such a case a request may be made to supplement it. This can be done not only by the President of the Tribunal, but also by an authorised person. The third amendment, already entirely legislative, indicates that the parties authorised to represent a political party are determined by the Tribunal on the basis of the statutes of a party or a law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And here's an indication that it's a political party bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u355	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Less than a month ago, a draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal entered the Sejm. This bill today is certainly symbolic in the context of all laws of law and justice which dismantle the Constitutional Tribunal. According to 117 articles, the Legislative Office itself has tabled more than 150 amendments, and no substantive amendments, made by Members of the Civic Platform, have been accepted by the chairman of the committee of Mr Piotrowicz, which is why we are requesting that the bill be rejected in its entirety during the second reading. This clearly shows that for the Law and Justice, the whole thing with a package of three pseudo-legal laws has only two goals. Firstly, it is a matter of describing the procedure for the election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal appointed by Jarosław Kaczyński, and secondly, of allowing three judges illegally elected in this term of office to rule by the votes of law and justice. In your opinion, anyone who does not have the support of the PiS is an enemy and should be criticized and preferably cancelled. An undisputed question is that the best of the best lawyers should sit at the Constitutional Court. Politicians of Law and Justice took this principle to heart by nominateing the real dream team of the Polish legal community to the tribunal. And so you are Professor Mariusz Muszyński, a person of above all impeccable character. Only a minor feature is his obscure past regarding cooperation with the Intelligence Agency, which even Minister Kaminski, the Special Services Coordinator, does not want to speak about. The professor has repeatedly expressed his high personal culture and respect for the public debate. In his official public statements he called the former Prime Minister of Poland a bandit, the former Minister of National Defence ordered him to go down, only in a more uncensored way, or arrogantly spoke about the sexual orientation of President Słupsk. However, if these arguments were insufficient for someone, then surely the great advantage of the professor is his apoliticality. After all, it should be considered that, during the reign of PiS, he was a representative of the Foreign Minister Anna Fotygi and in 2011 he was a member of the Court of State. He is also responsible for many official legal expertise prepared for Law and Justice. An example of an independent judge of the tribunal. He has another candidate from the anointing of Law and Justice - mec. Henry Ciao. In his rich achievements he has nearly 20 years of membership of the Polish United Workers' Party, but he is not the only important party in his life. Well, in his previous term, he was a senator chosen from the letter of Law and Justice. The recent elections were not so successful, so the nomination for a judge of the tribunal can be a kind of consolation prize for long-term cooperation. Or maybe it's also a reward for the fact that for many years Henryk Cioch was the first SKOK lawyer, behind whom there are still unclear links with the PiS and close media. Independence - write, embellish. There is, of course, Professor Lech Morawski - a member of the Scientific Committee of the two Smolensk Conferences, whose main thesis was that on 10 April 2010 an assassination of the Polish President's aircraft took place. The professor is also a longtime editor-in-chief of the quarterly law and bond published by the social scientific institute. As can be read from the SKOK website, it is an element of a great financial machine controlled by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. All three of them are waiting for the ruling judge of the Constitutional Tribunal - magistrate. Piotr Beszczółkowski. He is also not deprived of arguments in the race for the most independent judge of the tribunal. After all, he was not only a personal lawyer for Jarosław Kaczyński, but also in this term of office of the Sejm he sat on the benches as a Member of Law and Justice. I will remind you that under this law, the work of the tribunal will be temporarily managed by Judge Julia Przełębska living permanently outside the country. It is probably also a coincidence that her husband became a Polish ambassador to the Polish PiS in Germany, and for his main purpose he set himself the issue in German cinemas of the film Smolensk. So all Polish citizens can sleep peacefully thanks to a good change. For when the government of PiS wishes to violate their rights or freedoms, tireless and independent judges will certainly stand up bravely in their defence. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u357	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr. Tomasz Romekowski, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Then I invite Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Several years ago, Lech and Jarosław Kaczynski founded Law and Justice and founded a conservative party. But what's going on with PiS? What happens to your conservative ideas? Conservative responsibility for the state has been replaced by right-wing populism. Conservative attachment to the free market economy has replaced economic irresponsibleness. Today, you are replacing conservative respect for the rule of law with constitutional lawlessness. Is that gonna help you build a better reality? Does President Jarosław Kaczyński really believe in the impeccable intentions of anyone who sits behind his back? There was a minister in the government named David Jackiewicz. From this pulpit a few months ago he thundered: chase thieves, chase! Suddenly it turned out that President Jarosław Kaczyński had to chase Minister Jackiewicz. There were even ministers from the PiS government from 2005 to 2007, who ended their political career in prison. Does President Kaczyński really believe so much in every PiS policy that he's willing to take all of them out of constitutional control? High Izbo! A well-functioning, fair state is based on efficient mechanisms that exclude dishonesty, not a naive belief in infallibility and crystal clear intentions of all party members. When voting a package of three laws that ultimately dismantle constitutional protection of constitutional values, President Kaczyński assumes full responsibility for every case of abuse of power and violation of law by the PiS policy. By adopting the current Constitutional Court laws, you are opening wide the door to legal abuses and drastic violations of freedoms and civil rights. Driving a country without constitutional restrictions is like driving without working brakes. You may actually change Poland faster, but at the end of this road there is a catastrophe in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Messengers and Members of Law and Justice! You've been following the principle for a year now: the goal sanctifies the means. Think again if you know where your target is. Are you sure you know when you're gonna stop breaking and bending the law? Do you know when you will be persuaded to break the Polish Constitution for the last time? Are you sure that Poland, in which the authorities may not respect the Constitution, will be better Poland than the one in which it is valid - imperfect but still - constitution? Finally, I would just like to remind you of the words of sleep. Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki - Tadeusz Mazowiecki, who became Prime Minister in 1989. with the support of Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. A few years ago, during the celebration of the 85th birthday, Tadeusz Mazowiecki spoke words that should be followed by all those who take some part of their responsibility for Poland. Tadeusz Mazowiecki said then: "I believe in good Poland, I believe in the strength of this good Poland, because we have succeeded so much. Just let the hand of God defend you, you mustn't waste it. This must not be wasted. On behalf of the Poselski Club A modern motion to reject this law at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u359	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u360	Dear Marshal! The Minister isn't here. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present our position on the report of the committee on the draft law on organisation and procedure before the Constitutional Tribunal on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. The regulation discussed today by the High House is intended to replace the Act of 22 July 2016 on the Constitutional Court and to define its organisational structure, internal bodies and the scope of the powers conferred on them. It is also intended to establish the procedure of the tribunal's proceedings, i.e. procedures whereby the tasks and powers of the tribunal governed by the Constitution can be fulfilled. The draft goes back to the meeting of the High House for second reading, following the adoption of the amendments, mainly editorial and legislative, and the opposition's amendments have not been taken into account at all. According to the draft, the General Assembly shall form the Presidential Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who have taken a vow to the President. This provision implies the need for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to allow three judges elected by the Sejm to attend the general assembly in December. r. No one has any doubt today that this is the main objective of the project - the introduction to the so-called ruling. Judges appointed by the PiS in December. During the work in the committee, Members of the opposition suggested that, in line with the suggestion made by the Legislative Office, the Sejm should not distinguish between the current and the non-mandatory judges of the Constitution, because the Constitution clearly indicates how many judges the tribunal counts and does not differentiate their status. You can ask today what this division is about. The proposed solution from the project is intended to clearly indicate what the general assembly is so that there is no unauthorized overinterpretation in this respect - we read in the justification of the project. It is you today who are pushing an unauthorized interpretation, promoting the three December judges. Today, you want to turn this misinterpretation into a right, breaking the fundamental principles of the rule of law. Let us recall the recent appeal of 93 NGOs from all over Europe addressed to President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Beata Szydło. These organisations call for the resolution of the crisis around the Constitutional Court and implementation of the recommendations of the Venice Commission. They clearly state in their letter that none of these recommendations have been met. Instead of going in the direction indicated by organisations monitoring the rule of law and respecting democratic standards, you continue to wage war with the tribunal until you have taken full control of it. Because what else, if not a war with the tribunal, are such behaviours as a reduction in the budget of this institution or a suspension a month ago at the Justice Committee meeting with an opinion on the draft budget of the Constitutional Tribunal until the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal passes it as a 15-member member? The Act also regulates the procedure for the election of the President and Vice-Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal. In accordance with the draft, the General Assembly shall present to the President the candidates for the President of the Tribunal within one month of the date on which the vacancy was created. Today the TK Act of 22 July this year. Says that the General Assembly's deliberations on this matter shall be convened between 30 and 15 days before the end of the term of office of the President. The General Assembly meeting on the election of a candidate for President shall be chaired by the Court's youngest internship. The draft provides that the President shall be appointed by the President from among the candidates submitted to him by the General Assembly. The General Assembly is to present the President as candidates for all judges who have received at least five votes in the vote. According to the draft, if only one judge has received the required number of five votes, the assembly shall present as the second candidate for the President of that judge who has won the highest support among the judges. Ladies and gentlemen! As the opposition jury colleagues rightly pointed out, the project has a flawed title. In fact, it should read: the law on the election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal designated by Jarosław Kaczyński. A number of solutions which were challenged by the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission were removed from the project. It goes on, among other things. to rule by a majority of 2/3 of the votes, to deal with cases in the order of influence or to make the hearing subject to the presence of the Attorney General. And this is progress, this is the direction of change that needs to be commended. It is only a pity that by eliminating one controversial record, you are replacing it with another, not less controversial one. Unfortunately, the draft does not address the key issues of the constitutional crisis: the publication of a judgment by the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, those who swore on the constitution are questioning it on purpose," said Andrzej Rzepliński recently. With regard to these words, I cannot fail to note that you have already reported five projects concerning the Constitutional Tribunal and all have proved to be unconstitutional. Piotrowicz's legal bubble factory - I bow, Mr Piotrowski - works as a full pair. Today, too, the sixth project, in turn, will be unconstitutional and will end up where it and its authors belong...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u361	Proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u362	One sentence, Marshal. I'm sorry. ...outside of the public debate. And the last time we find out, there's already a seventh project on the way. High Seym! The Polish People's Party Club does not see the possibility of supporting the project in the form in which it received it from the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u363	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michał Kaminski, the Circle of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u364	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we will not support this project. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This project is clearly part of the implementation of a very violent political scenario, which is the reduction of democracy in Poland. Why am I talking about this? Because the course of the election campaign last year shows that the state - here perhaps a bit cynical, but bowing to campaigning talents - realized that with the true face of Law and Justice, with the face of President Jarosław Kaczyński, you cannot win the election. That's why you were masking yourselves in the election campaign. Antoni Macierewicz was hidden, Mrs. Szydło said that he would never be Minister of National Defence, that Mr. Gowin would be Minister of National Defence. We know who the minister is and who isn't, etc., etc. You realized that such a radical vision, a true vision of the PiS would not gain the acceptance of the voters and that it had to be hidden, that reality had to be washed away. That's what you guys did. You won the election. But the question is, after the election, this mask fell very quickly. That means you still have the knowledge that you had, that this radical vision you're pursuing today will not be accepted by the voters. So what are you hoping for? After all, you do not hope that under this radical program you are able to win the elections honestly, because polls, even the best ones for you, show today that most Poles of this program and this vision of Poland do not buy, regardless of what problems the opposition is in today, which also needs to be told honestly. Then the question arises. If you know, and you know you can't win a fair election, that means you have another idea. That's why you need an assassination attempt on the Constitutional Tribunal. And while in other matters, under pressure from the public, you can go backwards, such as abortion, you can key, you can fake it, but from the very beginning with the iron consequence of the chairman of the committee, who is a very effective, eloquent policy-maker of the PiS, you are pursuing this policy. That is why today so many people in Poland are concerned about the fate of our democracy. It is precisely because he sees this attack on the Constitutional Tribunal not as a fanaber, such a fanaber as we witnessed today in the educational debate, unprepared, chaotic, hysterical, but as a very precise attack on the fundamental institution of the democratic state. After all, your intentions are borne out by the judges whom you have chosen. Here there are very often arguments that you are interested in the Polish People's Republic, and they do not only concern... I won't mind your biography. One of your judges, as we know, was a Polish service agent. In the Polish tradition of the Polish People's Republic there was an agent who was an icon of pop culture of the Polish People's Republic - Hans Kloss. For a dozen episodes, Brunner tried to catch him and didn't catch him, and it seems like the media are reporting that your Hans Kloss BND caught him and had to disappear from Germany. James Bond was said to be Her Majesty's agent. On the lips are the words: what queen, like James Bond. But these jokes are jokes through tears, because in this unwise policy, in this policy which destroys the image of Poland in a world that destroys the trust of Poles in their own country, in this policy - I fear and repeat it - it is more than that. The point is that you have wicked plans and are afraid that these evil plans may be challenged by the honest Constitutional Court, which is why you are fighting against this tribunal with such an iron consequence. But the race started in Poland with time. Will you sooner be able to reduce democracy, or will the nation speak and show you the red card? I hope that this race over time will win Polish democracy, it will not be won by Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u365	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite Mr Ireneus to profit, near Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, in print Nos 963 and 1052. The damage caused by the dispute over the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal will be very difficult to remedy. The confidence of citizens in this institution has been seriously damaged, as demonstrated by the recent CBOS study. Evaluations by the Constitutional Tribunal are the worst in the history of public opinion polls on the activities of this institution. As many as 43% of the Court's activities were negative surveyed. Does the proposed law bring us closer to the conclusion of this dispute? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Absolutely not.]] If we also take into account two other projects: the Constitutional Tribunal Statute Act and the Introductory Rules, which comprehensively regulate the matter of the Tribunal's functioning, there is a shadow of hope that until the end of the dispute is closer than further, the conclusion that the Constitutional Tribunal will be able to work without hindrance, restoring its credibility. The adoption of the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings by the Constitutional Tribunal is necessary, for example, in order to clarify the rules for the election and presentation of candidates for the position of President or Vice-President by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and the scope of their powers under the Constitution and the Constitutional Tribunal Act itself. This law after its entry into force should lead to compliance with the Constitution by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Prof. Andrzej Rzepliński. It is important that the rules are applied and, in the event that this is not the case, those responsible, including the current President of the Court, are liable for the violation of the law. As I mentioned in my last speech on this bill, it is appropriate to agree with the justification of the project in which the applicant rightly notes, and I quote: The General Assembly is not authorized to appoint or elect a President or Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The President of the Republic of Poland shall be the constitutional body performing the act of appointment. At the same time, it must be strongly emphasised that Article. Paragraph 194. 2nd Constitution does not make the President of the Republic a notary confirming the resolution concerning the presentation of candidates by the General Assembly. It is the President who has the decisive vote on this matter, and according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to This is the prerogative of the President. The only comment on the bill submitted to the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle directs towards the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 the draft, according to which the General Assembly on the election of the President of the Tribunal is chaired by the Court's youngest internship. This is quite peculiar and incompatible with the Polish custom of functioning of collegial bodies, because, as a general rule, the meeting on the election of the president or the chairman of the collegial body is chaired by a member of the body of the oldest age or internship. In an interview with the Gazeta Prawna Journal, the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, stated, quote: The oldest judge may be personally interested in how the assembly convened to select a candidate will take place. In theory, he may have a better chance of choosing him as a candidate by the Constitutional Tribunal. To be president by the tribunal, I'm sorry. For the candidate for President of the Constitutional Tribunal, I apologize. This is the explanation that seems incomprehensible, Mr President, in the context set out in the explanatory statement of the precise procedure for the election of the President of the Tribunal, which the President of the Republic will ultimately make. Even if one of the elected candidates for President is the President of the General Assembly, it does not increase his chances of choosing with regard to other candidates. In addition, the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, pointed out that the solutions in which the body is chaired by the youngest person or by an internship, I quote: they also occur in other countries. I would therefore ask the President to develop this thought and to indicate where specifically the countries and bodies in which it operates. Despite the doubts raised above, given that the proposed solutions are necessary to improve the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the procedated bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u367	Thank you very much, sir. 15 Members joined the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u368	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Another episode, ladies and gentlemen, fighting for the Constitutional Tribunal before us. I have the impression that the President, the Prime Minister and all the politicians of the PiS are surprised and, at the same time, outraged that the Constitutional Tribunal still has the audacity to adjudicate. How difficult it is for you to accept the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1, according to which the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the office in question are not bound by the Constitution and are subject only to the Constitution. Would we really want any judge in our country to be instructed by Mr. Zbigniew Ziobra or Mrs. Beata Szydło? The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall have universal force and shall be final. There is no law in our legal system authorising the executive authority [[♪ The bell ♪]] to refuse or discontinue the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Why, then, should this tribunal decide its decisions by the government? Question: "On the basis of what arguments was it decided that the General Assembly's deliberations, which are intended to select and present candidates for the position of judge of the Court of State, is chaired by the youngest judge of the Tribunal, and not by the oldest Judge of the Tribunal who has participated in the meeting, as so far?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u369	Thank you, sir. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that the tribunal and its judges are now very inappropriately presented by the politicians of PiS as a relic of communes, judges of the tribunal as politicians, because everyone knows that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elect a Sejm composed of representatives of the nation elected in general elections. The demonstrations that oppose the violation of the Constitution, especially in the context of the Constitutional Tribunal, are not opposed to the recent parliamentary elections, but are precisely an expression of the need to respect these elections, because if voters wanted to change the Constitution, they would vote and give you a constitutional majority, which is why I ask you very much to respect this above all. On the other hand, in relation to this project, I have a question of why the project in the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 provides that the Vice-President of the Tribunal shall replace the President of the Tribunal only if, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where it is authorised to do so in writing. Constitution in Article. Article 192 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 makes it clear that there is also a vice-president within the tribunal who should naturally replace the President of the Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u371	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Will the dispute which initiated the PO, of which we must remember and remind, by amending the Constitutional Court Act, be terminated by this law? Question two. What about the draft amendment to the Constitution by the Kukiz Club?15? Is it true that the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal will continue? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u373	Thank you very much. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is already the sixth draft, called the Constitutional Tribunal's corrective proposal, and the third one, which concerns the very way in which the authorities are elected or, in fact, the President. On average, once every two months, we have a bill on the courthouse with a repair name, and in fact the paralyzing work of the tribunal. Today we are working on a project to take over the position of President of the Court for representatives of the PiS. Without any consultation, without expert opinions, within the framework of pseudo-democratic law-making, because it is a parliamentary project, Law and Justice at all costs trying to guarantee itself the possibility to influence the election of the President of the Tribunal. Moreover, PiS's jurisdiction of the tribunal will take place before the election of the President. The draft states that from the day of the vacancy to the appointment of the President of the Tribunal [[♪ The bell ♪]] its successors shall be chaired by a judge with the longest period of service combined. I wanted to ask the rapporteur whether this provision is in line with the Constitution and whether it is possible to indicate such a person by law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u375	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, together with two other laws, effectively terminates the activities of an independent tribunal. Its aim is to elect a person who may have less than half of the general assembly as President of the Tribunal. It refers to the chairing of the tribunal during the transitional period of the person who does not appear in the Constitution, although there is a position of vice-president of the tribunal. The three understudys who have been selected for the seats of persons properly selected and properly placed by the Sejm shall be introduced. In this way, one can say, after 19 December, the tribunal as an independent body controlling the constitutionality of the parliamentary majority's activities will actually cease to function effectively in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u377	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Compliance with the law is far more important than constantly changing it. If the PiS were to respect the judgments of the tribunal with the same zeal as he is trying to write further laws, then certainly Poland would be a state of law. In the explanatory memorandum to the Law, the PiS states that granting the President of the Constitutional Tribunal the powers of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is to ensure continuity of the constitutional body of the State, which is the tribunal, and to prevent the paralysis of the institution. I would ask you to explain why the performance of the duties of the President of the Tribunal by the vice-president is to paralyze this institution and that the performance of those duties by the acting President of the Tribunal will no longer result in such paralysis. Compliance with the law, ladies and gentlemen, is much more difficult than breaking it. If you followed the Constitution, you wouldn't have to resort to injustice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u379	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! From the content of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 of the proposal shows that there are two categories of judges of the Tribunal: the current judges of the Tribunal, this category of judges constitute a general meeting, and the non-official judges of the Tribunal. Please indicate who should be included in the non-official judges of the Tribunal and what are the powers of those persons, because these persons, according to the draft, are judges but do not act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u381	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. Are you an MP? There isn't. Please, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The contested laws are the last chords in the dispute concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. In a moment, you will be taking over this tribunal and there will be no need to write any more laws to complete the work. I have a question about a majority that concerns full court. The draft requires a minimum of 11 judges to be adjudicated as such. Clearly, this majority seems to be correlated with the number of persons nominated by Law and Justice. I don't think there's any doubt that these two numbers match very well. I'm just asking for a little reflection, so that at least sometimes we can try to make such regulations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will last a little longer than one term, because we are not here solely for ourselves, we are not here to create an accidental law, but a law that will apply a little longer than one term. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u383	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u384	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The war against the tribunal that the PiS is fighting is, in fact, a war against the citizens. This fight is being fought to deprive citizens of the latter, basically the only possibility of blocking the harmful Polish legislation of the PiS. The point is that the Poles do not have this reduction so that no one will review what PiS does to Poles in the Seym. And, of course, this whole war you're fighting against the Constitutional Court deserves only to be judged negatively. The time will come for all the bad changes you've made this year, the bill that is today, just to eliminate, restore normality and constitutional status. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As part of this bad change, you would also like to make, I would say, a very bad change, which will cause that proposals which will be submitted by groups of Members or by groups of senators during their term of office to the Constitutional Tribunal will not be examined after this term of office. This is in the article. 59 (1) (a) 1 point 5 of the project. I would ask you to explain why you want to do this to Poles, why you want to do so much bad to our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u385	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not know why you have decided on such a provision that destroys the principle that institutions such as the Constitutional Tribunal should operate in a certain continuity. So far it has been possible to appoint and appoint the President of the Tribunal 3 months before the end of the predecessor's term of office, in the last law between 30 and 15 days. You are introducing a new rule that the President is elected after the end of the previous term, only to appoint, immediately, practically in the act, who is to act as President, to have everything under control. It's a bad law. You are responsible for destroying the Constitutional Tribunal. It's a sixth rehearsal. All the laws you've practically prepared are considered unconstitutional. One can only say: Law and Justice, Mr Piotrowicz, is a gravedigger of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u387	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the rapporteur, of course, is: What is the Constitutional Court Act this year, in this term of office of the Sejm? Six, and this meeting is being held on the seventh. And I have a question for you as a lawyer. After all, you've been a prosecutor for years, you've been in the Sejm for years, and you've also been in the committee, I understand, legislative justice. Is this a way of creating a right in a stable democracy with regard to a constitutional body that changes every 1.5 months? Is that how you make the law? Answer that question. This is a fundamental matter. One, two, three bill, seven bills. And the other thing. The question also to the Member, of course. Tell me, how many judges in the Constitutional Court will meet the criteria, in accordance with this law, for election as President? How many judges? Isn't that a bill written under a particular judge? So why don't you just say it straight. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u389	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Another draft law, a very important law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, is a parliamentary project, which is a project that has been proceded without public consultation, without inter-ministerial arrangements. Why? There's a target and nothing more. The project is poorly prepared. In the legislative process, more than 150 amendments were introduced to 117 articles. The project defines e.g. the powers of the President and the procedures for appointment. He only introduces the institution of the vacancy to elect his man as president. History will severely evaluate such action. I appeal, think, do not destroy Polish democracy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a big mistake. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u391	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'd like to ask the applicant a question. What's the bill for? I'm asking you to explain to me again, because you explain, and I still don't understand. I'd like to ask you a question. Maybe I'll answer to myself, maybe the esteemed applicant will confirm whether it's because we're starting with a restriction for now, and maybe to throw away the atheists and Orthodox people by law. One of the PiS messengers had an idea to do that. And if people don't agree to it, is it to sanction that you send a private army of Macierewicz and burn these people down? [[The closer you get to midnight, the more you talk, Mr. President.]] You know a lot about martial law. I was born then, and I would like to know what it's like, sir, and I ask you to answer honestly, once in your life honestly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u393	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For many months we have been dealing with a revolution that is taking place in Poland, and the logic of the work of the government majority is subordinated to this revolution. In the revolution we are dealing with such a situation that executive power is superior to legislative and judicial power. Therefore, we have e.g. such extreme situations completely, when they are directed and provoked, when people who are honest are arrested, or who have some fantastic past behind them. Today we are dealing with an absolutely unprecedented act, the arrest of Józef Pinior, a legend of Solidarity. That's the logic -- that's the logic -- and you're going to multiply it. I wonder how long you will be able to do this, how long you will be demoting our democracy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wonder, sir, because you are the representative of Post-Deputy Chief Jarosław Kaczyński, whether you are a real man, whether you really have come to such a moment, in an uncompromising manner, to present unambiguously the post-Deputy Chief who wants to bring about the degradation of Polish democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u395	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. This is the sixth of the seven laws on the Constitutional Court that we have passed in the last 12 months. As you would like to step on the three divisions of power in Poland, it would be appropriate to do so in a professional, thought-out manner, because what you are doing can only prove that the Miesiewiczes in your performance sit not only in the companies of the Treasury, but also in these benches. On the other hand, what is still in my head and what I would like to ask is whether it is true, according to art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 and 12 it is possible that the President will be given the names of the candidates who will receive only one vote during the assembly. This means that the President may elect a person as President of the Constitutional Tribunal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who will vote only for herself during the assembly and will not receive any additional vote of support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u397	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz will answer the questions of the applicant's representative. I hope that these will be efficient answers, because we are quite late, and we still have a lot of points ahead of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u398	Thank you very much, Marshal. I will try to answer this in a concise manner. [[But full.]] Many of the questions were about what the next bill was for and what we wanted to achieve. We want to correct what happened in June 2015 and October 2015 by means of the rulers. I don't like to go back to the same things over and over again, but since you're actually asking these kinds of questions, I have to do it again. I apologise to all those who listen and are already fully aware of what is going on, but I am obliged to answer those Members who, despite many debates, still do not understand or pretend not to understand what is going on. Then I'll say it again. The Constitution was broken in June and October. The Parliament of the previous term of office has entered, the parliamentary majority has entered into the powers of the current parliament, it has also been acknowledged by the Constitutional Tribunal, the Constitution has been broken. Even this Constitutional Tribunal had to conclude that the provisions of the 2015 Act were indeed a violation of the Constitution and in particular of the last provision. The question then arises: If the Constitution was broken then, why was it done? Why would they do that? Well, the answer to that question is simple. To take over the Constitutional Tribunal. You say we're assassinating the Constitutional Tribunal today. You say today that citizens' rights and freedoms are at stake. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you, with the help of the Constitutional Tribunal, wanted and want to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens. You want to limit democracy. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It is impossible to listen.]] [[Members of the Poselski Club are leaving the room]] People in the last election voted for changes in the country. That's why they've given us a mandate and they're expecting these changes. And you have decided: no, we will rule the Constitutional Tribunal and with the help of the Constitutional Tribunal we will not allow any changes in the state. It can't be agreed to. You say the Constitutional Tribunal stood and upholds civil rights. Well, let me remind you how he acted. for example in the case of OFE, as it did in the case of an increase in the retirement age. So, ladies and gentlemen, do not charge so much that this tribunal will continue to uphold civil rights and freedoms. We are, of course, in favour of this because this is the role of the Constitutional Tribunal, but according to your approach to the Constitutional Tribunal he was to be a redeemer who, against the will of the nation, would not allow any change in Poland. So if you say there's an attempt on democracy today, then you don't respect the will of the voters. You are insinuating a variety of things: what it will be, where we are going, etc.? Nothing. Nothing. We aim to do the will of the voters and consistently That's what we do. Don't scare people anymore because it stops working on people. First of all, you scared that 500+ reform is unbelievable because there's no money that it's impossible that we fooled the voters. When we bring it in, you say, "It's outrageous." Why not all of us, why not more money? I mean, you gotta stand up. for a moment in front of the mirror and look. In order not to feel disgusted with this face, you must have exceptional immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, we respect the Constitution and respect it, unlike those who speak the Constitution and have it for nothing, do not respect what is most important in the Constitution. How many times do I have to say this, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in favour of dividing the authorities into judicial, executive and legislative powers, as it is written in the Constitution. We are in favour of the balance of the authorities, and this is not an empty word, it is filled with content and associated with certain instruments. We are in favour of the Constitutional Tribunal being a separate authority. We are in favour of this because it was raining in questions - and we will do everything to guarantee it - that there should be judicial independence. The independence of the judge, ladies and gentlemen, is that the judge can judge in accordance with his own legal knowledge, with his own conscience and with his own conviction. That's what jury independence is all about. And it's crazy important. And stay away from anyone who wants to influence and press the judge. But there can be no consent, my dear country, when you wish to establish a judicial authority over all authorities. After all, it conflicts with the constitution, with the division and balance of the authorities. How many times it takes, ladies and gentlemen, to make it happen. You're also asking who's going to be president. I don't know who's gonna be president. The argument that a person may be president, who will have one vote for himself, is an act of total ignorance. How can we speak about the Constitutional Court Act, its organisation and procedure before it, without reading it? And yet this is an obvious example of the fact that this person who raised the question that someone would vote for himself will get one vote and may be presented to the President has shown a complete ignorance of the legal act she was talking about. It is clearly enshrined in the rules - and here we have taken into account the opposition's demand - that at least five votes of support is needed to be presented to the President. So my hands fall down when I'm explaining the same things for the first time, and I get questions that indicate that those who ask just want to make their own thesis that have nothing to do with the project and insinuate what we're going to do. Nothing. We intend to do the will of our constituents. And that's what we consistently do. That's what we consistently do, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, this law is intended to ensure that the tribunal is a separate, independent institution, that the judges are free to enjoy social respect. Today it turns out that the court was involved in politics by the President. Dear country, you do not see that the involvement of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in politics is a violation of the Constitution. The judges should be apolitical and impartial. And somehow it doesn't want to go through the throat. Over and over again, you're demanding three judges to swear in. And I ask, on what legal basis? On what legal basis? Don't you know the Sejm's resolution on this matter? Whoever is a judge decides the Sejm - and that is what the Constitution says, that is written in the Constitution - not the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal shall not have the right to exercise control over the choice. I'm asking you to remember this once and for all. Not much, even this Constitutional Court stated this in its decision of January this year. He stated explicitly: the Constitutional Tribunal has no right to carry out checks on the so-called. non-normative resolutions of the Sejm. This is an autonomous and sovereign decision of the Sejm. And you tell people over and over again that the Constitutional Tribunal said otherwise. Take a look at the verdict of January this year. It's clearly written there. As regards the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal has given its political will to the explanatory memorandum and has gone a little further and in a different direction, I would like to remind you that the legal value, the normative value, has the operative part, not the justification - and it is worth remembering that - while the rest was political desire. Ladies and gentlemen, another bill is to bring about constitutional order in the state. And since it is not so easy to clean up after those who messed up, another bill shows that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u399	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy and Treasury and the Committee for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws (prints Nos 996 and 1012). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The case to which the draft Print Act No 996 refers and the report of the Joint Committees, Print No 1012, is as old and well-known as the old and well-known mines, coal mining and accompanying coal in methane deposits. The restructuring activities carried out for years in the field of hard coal mining result in free disposal of mining plants or parts thereof to the Company for Restructuring of the mines SA. This process is usually linked to the fact that the concessions in question, which most often concern the extraction of hard coal and methane as accompanying fossils, need to be extinguished. Thus, when the coal mining licence expires, mines lose the possibility of mining methane as an accompanying fossil, but usually have a system of extraction and economic use of methane for the production of energy. The thoughtlessness of our predecessors has caused that, due to the lack of appropriate legal regulations, installations to demethaneate or release methane into the atmosphere must be closed in the mines being destroyed, causing environmental damage. Let me add that methane is many times more harmful in terms of greenhouse impacts than carbon dioxide. High Izbo! The provisions of the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of coal mining, but above all the provisions of the Law of 9 June 2011. Geological and mining laws do not give the possibility to obtain methane without obtaining a separate concession, so-called. a hydrocarbon concession. This causes obvious financial losses, for which the Polish taxpayer pays, because the Company for Restructuring of Mine receives money for liquidation from the State Treasury. [[Yes.]] Well, if 1.5 billion PLN passed in a company that allegedly prepared the construction of a nuclear power plant and did not even indicate the proposed location, why worry that there could be several hundred thousand PLN losses on one opening a month due to the non-use of methane? The mindlessness of stupidity. But, High Izbo, ad rem. Art. 1 of this project, which contains amendments to the Act of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining, is contained in the following article. 8f that the company transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines during the liquidation of the mining plant may, in order to protect the environment or to ensure the safety of the traffic of the liquidated mining plant, extract methane without obtaining concessions in the area covered by the traffic plan of the liquidated mining plant. It should be noted here that, according to the report of the Higher Mining Authority on the methane hazards of 30 coal mines in 21, methane secretion was found, including 15 in decks with the highest, 4 in the category of methane hazard. In 2014, the number of walls with the fourth category in which the operation was carried out was 42.5%. The amendment contained in Article. 1 of this project will therefore ensure the safety of the plant being wound up, the safety of neighbouring mining plants and universal safety, and will benefit the environment as it reduces the amount of methane emitted into the atmosphere. The rules will apply to one company - as I have already said - which conducts winding-up operations financed by the State Treasury, a company whose co-ownership is the State Treasury. The new rules will ensure safety during the decommissioning of mining plants and the proper use of the valuable methane fossil. So, High Izbo, the case is, let me put it bluntly, dead serious. Art. 2 of the project concerned includes a change of entry in Article. 401c. 2 of the Environmental Law in such a way that point 1 is replaced by the following:.1) financing the needs of geology for the benefit of the country; and point 2 is repealed. I'll remind you, Art. 401c Environmental law refers to a list of public tasks which can be financed by the National Environmental Fund. The proposed provision is wider than the previous one, so it allows funding not only - so far - recognition of the geological construction of the country, but also search and documentation work, the exercise of geological surveillance, the preparation and implementation of the state's raw materials policy, innovative technologies, etc. The new provision of point 1 also includes the scope of the current point 2, hence the proposal to repeal it. I would like to stress that the Ministry of the Environment in the situation of mine decommissioning and methane mining, despite the lack of concessions, must inter alia. keep records of the excavated fossil. This work must be financed in some way, because the geological service should carry out its duties. Thanks to the proposed provision, it will be possible to finance costs related to the supervision of the decommissioning of mines from the geological fund. Let me remind you that this article. 2 as a result of the amendment, it was adopted by 30 votes in favour, with 5 votes against and 2 abstentions, at the joint committee meeting: the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. Art. 3 contains an amendment to Article. 163 Law of 9 June 2011. Geological and mining law. Added lips. They concern the supervision of a research institute carrying out tasks in the field of the State Geological Service in order to strengthen the supervision of the competent minister of that institute. The current regulations on research institutes make it difficult to carry out the current supervision of the Minister of State Geological Institute - State Research Institute, entrusted with the role of State Geological Service. In particular, I am talking about the provisions of the Scientific Council, which give the Council broad powers which have a significant impact on the performance of the State's tasks in this area. But let us stress, it is not a scientific council, it is the minister who is responsible for the proper execution of public tasks in this area. Similarly, it is with the provisions governing the operation of the committee conducting the competition for the post of Director of the State Institute of Geology - the State Research Institute which impedes supervision by the competent minister. The tasks of the State Geological Service and the State Hydrogeological Service carried out by the PIG - the State Research Institute, which is important for the implementation of the state's raw materials policy, give the sumptuousness to such a revision of the provisions of the Act so that the Minister has a real impact on individuals for whom political and professional responsibility or omissions are assumed. Art. 4 contains amendments to the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and some other laws, i.e. so-called. the hydrocarbon bill. Amendment concerning Article. 21 of this law extends from 2 to 4 years the deadline by which operators operating in excavations of liquidated underground mining plants are obliged to comply with the requirements of the Geological and Mining Law. The second amendment to that Article extends the duration of the implementing provisions issued pursuant to Article. 110 Geological and mining laws. They were originally to apply for no more than 24 months from the date of entry into force of the hydrocarbon novel, and therefore on 1 January 2017 the Regulation of the Minister of the Environment of 16 February 2012 on the traffic plans of mining plants would expire. Since the rules on the traffic plans for mining plants are to be amended shortly following the implementation of Directive 2013/30/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, it is appropriate to extend that period to 36 months, i.e. by one year. Art. 5, 6 and 7 of the draft law contained in the committee's report, in print no.1012, are transitional provisions of an inter-temporal nature which are a consequence of the amendments introduced by the Geological and Mining Law. In turn, the article. 8 provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following the date of its publication. High Izbo! Today's draft, contained in the committee's report, corrects the gross errors made when amending the Geological and Mining Law in 2014, we remove gaps and inconsistencies. This is not, I will remind you, the first correction of the hydrocarbon novel in this term of office, I will remind you of the work on printing No 364 in March this year. As regards the extraction of methane as a mineral accompanying the deposit of hard coal, an urgent amendment of the legislation is extremely important, as I said, and deadly serious, while the rules on the functioning of the State Institute of Geological Research have a clear impact on the effectiveness of geological surveillance of the extraction of methane. High Izbo! The joint committees, the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted four amendments to draft Print Law No 996 after examining the opinion of the Legislative Bureau on these amendments. High Izbo! Joint committees: the Energy and Treasury Commission and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted the draft in a report combined with 29 votes in favour, with 7 abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of WW. the committee please accept the draft in print no.1012, which the mines are looking forward to, and in particular the under-restructuring mining plants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u401	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I recommend the adoption of a government draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining and the law amending the Geological and Mining Law Act. Due to the creation of the Company for Restructuring of Kopalń SA, it was necessary to terminate the concession for extraction of coal and methane as accompanying fossils which were originally granted to other economic operators. At the time of expiry of the coal mining licence, the geological and mining law does not allow the use of methane without granting a separate concession, so-called. hydrocarbon, in liquidated mining plants. The project concerns the introduction of the possibility of using methane in decommissioned mining plants or their designated parts without the need for a new hydrocarbon concession, which is time-consuming and costly. The adoption of these amendments will allow the use of existing demethane installations without granting a separate concession. Maintaining this continuity is not only important due to occupational safety, universal safety, but also will reduce methane emissions to the atmosphere. Let us remind you that methane is a greenhouse gas whose greenhouse potential is more than 30 times greater than that of carbon dioxide. The aim of this change is therefore to ensure safety during the decommissioning of the mining plant or parts thereof and the best use of the methane fossil. The Act also amends the provisions of the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and certain other laws. During the more than one year of application of this law, problems arose concerning the adaptation of its requirements to works carried out in liquidated underground mining facilities used in particular for tourist, recreational, medicinal purposes. In these types of units not carrying out geological and mining works there is no need to apply regulations on the movement of mining plants, which is very expensive for them. It has therefore become necessary to extend the period during which entities, as I mentioned earlier, which carry out works in the excavations of liquidated underground mining plants adapt to the requirements laid down in the Geological and Mining Law Act. The Act also extends the validity of the implementing rules issued pursuant to Article. 110 Law of 9 June 2011. Geological and mining law. This means that, in view of the work being carried out on the implementation of the Union Directives, which will require the adaptation of the rules on the traffic plans of mining plants, it has become necessary to extend the current Regulation of the Minister of the Environment of 16 February 2012 on a traffic plan for mining plants which would expire on 1 January 2017. In view of all these circumstances, I recommend that the High House adopt this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u403	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the report of the committee on the government bill amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. Actually, we're talking about two prints: 996 and 1012. In the light of today's restructuring of mining by the Government of Law and Justice, there is indeed a serious need. We are dealing with a fatally serious case, because in the Ministry of Energy the next mines, subsequent movements, are eliminated. I wanted to replace them to make it sound clear. In 2016, the Anna Movement was decommissioned, the Jas-Mos Movement was liquidated, at least in a large part, in 2017 the liquidation of the Peace Movement 1, the liquidation of KWK Sośnica, the liquidation of the Rydult Movement, the liquidation of the Silesian Movement, the decommissioning of the coal mine. Of course, among those in which this deposit is extracted, there are also mines that have wonderful deposits that have concessions at least until 2030, 2040, and have staff. It turns out that these mines, despite the loud announcements during the campaign period, that there will be no liquidation of mines, are being liquidated. And this is where the thoughtlessness of our predecessors actually emerged, because then, in 2005, between 2005 and 2007. - they didn't make that bill. They probably didn't predict they were going to take them out at the time. Unfortunately, neither did the Civic Platform foresee that it would liquidate the mines in the period 2007-2013. And here it turns out that Law and Justice have taken a strong step in eliminating mines, and indeed there is a need to regulate methane mining regulations. It is true that today the law does not allow the concession to operate separately to extract methane as well as to extract coal. And it is right that this change is being made. It is indeed necessary. Back to the second topic, which is the subject of a change in the Geological and Mining Law, I would like to point out that after a year of rule of law and justice is not prepared to amend its regulations. For one year and for eight years in opposition, Law and Justice have not prepared to amend legislation, to amend directives that should actually enter into force and on the basis of which an amendment to the implementing rules should be prepared. But at the committee's meeting, amendments are made to the government's presentation, which relate primarily to... These amendments go beyond the scope of the draft submitted, in some way the scope of the opinion of the Council of Ministers, because this project was... And what are they about? The amendments relate primarily to supervision related to the State Inspection... [[The Institute.]] ... The National Geological Institute. It's about giving a statute, it's about changing the composition of the institute's scientific council, running a competition for the Director of State Labour Inspection. It is also a change of method of financing, I ask you. What? National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. So far, funding has been limited to identifying the geological construction of the country. The Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers did not agree at the Council of Ministers to change the financing method. And today, by Members of Law and Justice, the main geologist of the country introduces, extends the catalogue of funding rules to [[♪ The bell ♪]] a state geodetic fund. It's a paradox and a misunderstanding. The Civic Platform Club therefore amends the deletion of Article. 2, Article 3 and as a follow-up to this Article. 5 and Article 5 7, which also result from the consequences of the deletion of Article. 2. I wanted to inform the High House that we are addicting the vote on this project in the context of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u405	Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz club15, I wanted to present the club's position regarding the draft amendment to the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. In general, we could focus on two things here. The entire bill is prepared in a manner that is correct. One thing is very good, and the other is not necessarily good. Let's start with the good one. There is talk of the use of methane by plants where production has been completed. This is a very good thing, a pro-environmental thing, as well as supporting the economy of enterprises that have been transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. This can create a new basis, however, as if energy, supporting the country's resources and energy balance. There's no doubt about it. We have to support it as much as possible. And that's the good side of the project. And now you have to look at what's negative here. A negative point here is the financing of the needs of geology for the country. The amendment in point 2 will in general change the allocation of funds from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, from among others. from mining fees. So far, not less than half of these funds, I note, have been intended to finance the needs of geology in terms of knowledge of the geological construction of the country and in terms of resource management of fossils and groundwater deposits, countering landslides and eliminating their environmental effects, financing the tasks of the National Administrator of the Underground Storages of Coal Dioxide, with the exception of the tasks referred to in Article. 28e paragraph. 2 Mining and Geological Law Act. The proposed amendment will only contribute to the financing of the needs of geology for the country and, in the second case, to the financing of the tasks of the National Administrator of Underground Carbon Dioxide Storages, with the exception of the tasks referred to in the above article, which I quoted earlier. And what's important? By justifying the transfer of finances, which will result in... This provision is generally detrimental to the mining sector, as it gives the Minister of the Environment the opportunity to freely dispose of the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which come from among others. from mining fees. To date, these funds have been spent on research into the management of fossil reserves, groundwater and the prevention of landslides and overall regeneration of the entire mining sites. And what do I hear here? I hear that it is important to consider how many fossils. methane will be used. I don't know if the ministry has heard about the fact that demethane plants exist and there are meters, and you don't need to use this special means because any plant engaged in the professional recovery of methane can report this state on an ongoing basis, it's no problem, no effort. Another issue is supervision necessary. Of course, such supervision still exists, in the case of every mine mining plant there is supervision in the form of the Higher Mining Authority, little of it, another branch in Gdańsk was created, as far as open mining is concerned, and here also I do not understand why these measures are being moved. So, yes, to recap, so as not to waste any time, I submit, Your Marshal, go ahead...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u407	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u408	...two corrections. One is an amendment which deletes Article. 2. And the second amendment brings up another topic, which I have not mentioned, namely the subject of end-of-laws. The concessions of all mining plants have their punishment, we all know that. By 2020, the concessions will lose or it will be very difficult to obtain... 40 concessions will expire. And here we are talking about all mining companies, from Jastrzębska company, through the Polish Mining Group, to the Katowice holding company. We're also talking about extracting brown coal. This is a very important thing for the mining industry to make this record. I will, of course, present the details to the committee so as not to take up precious time, because we are already behind schedule. And that's it. So as far as the Kukiz club is concerned,15 we support the positive change in methane, and the support of the rest of the project depends on considering the amendments made to you by the marshals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u409	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the bill amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws. The restructuring programme of mines, which is currently being implemented, often leads to the free disposal of mining plants to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, which, as has already been said here, involves the extinction of coal mining concessions and, with this concession, plants lose the possibility of mining and economic use of methane. This in turn can lead to a real threat and we do not really underestimate this threat - at best it can lead to environmental damage due to the release of this methane into the atmosphere. And that's actually the part of the bill that doesn't essentially give rise to doubt. The Act will enable the Company to restructure the mines to obtain permission to extract this methane without concessions in the liquidated mining plant. We talked at the committee meeting about the possibility of transferring this concession or the possibility of extracting methane in the event of the disposal of an organised part of the company. I must say that this question is still bothering us, and it has not been convincingly explained to me. There is a risk, in colloquial terms, of the concession in the event of the sale of an organised part of the company or of an entire mining company. This may not only be the issue of concessions, but also the property components, which today are often used for the economic use of this methane and the production of even electricity in this way. We expect this to be finally clarified at the next meeting. As regards the changes regarding geological law, I share my predecessors' doubts about the distribution of gas charges at the disposal of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u411	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u412	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to refer to this bill on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party. It has been a little frightening here by the rapporteur, and all the misfortune has been reminded of what has happened in recent years. It's a little ridiculous with the economic bill. We are talking about serious matters, about how to manage methane, how to make it cheaper, and here no one doubts that such a bill is needed, while some terrible words here were about misery, etc., I can no longer recall it, quote it. However, what raises our doubts is the second part of the project - already the predecessors said that this was where the drop-in was made, once again. It may be necessary, but the way it happened on the committee... suddenly we find out that one minister doesn't know what the other is reporting because that's the situation we had. In response to the question of the Minister who represented the government, he had the power of government to represent him on this bill, he shrugs his arms and says: I know nothing about it. If we also say that this has quite a financial impact, which the government and ministers have not discussed - so there is no such knowledge and it is not able to make it clear to the Members - this raises our doubts and concerns. That is why I will no longer make these amendments, and I also asked this at the committee meeting, but these amendments must be supported because there must be some logic. Moreover, reservations were also made by the Legislative Office, because these amendments go beyond the first draft submitted by the Council of Ministers by the Government. That's why we're gonna be like this. As far as methane management is concerned, any element that can provide us with a little energy is valuable and everything needs to be done here. If there is a possibility that the cost of obtaining methane will be reduced, it has to be done and there is no need to make any sensation out of it. This could have been done even earlier with other laws on the restructuring of mining. Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party will support the bill, but we will behave here - I will say yes, because I do not know the content of the amendments, although they have been presented here in some way - reasonable, so that there is any logic in all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u413	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and the law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, prints No. 996 and 1012. Originally, there were two substantive articles in the bill. The first one concerned an amendment which allowed methane to be used in decommissioned mining plants or in their designated parts without the need to obtain a hydrocarbon concession. A reasonable argument is that the process leading to a hydrocarbon concession is long-lasting. In addition, halting methane disposal in decommissioned mining plants could seriously impair work safety, universal safety and adversely affect environmental protection through the emission of methane into the atmosphere. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed legislative solution will significantly accelerate the use of methane in mines or parts thereof intended for decommissioning. In addition, the draft law makes adjustments to eliminate doubts in the interpretation of the inconspicuous concepts of robots and the liquidated underground mining plants. So far, it has not been known whether the concept of works meant every activity, every job, or just geological and mining robots. This caused difficulties in applying the concept of underground mining plants, as it was not specified whether it was any underground mining plant in which it had ever been operated or only a mining plant within the meaning of the current provisions of the Act. As a result, the Act was applied to entities providing underground mining facilities exclusively for tourism purposes. The second substantive article in the government submission concerned the amendment of the provisions of the Law of 11 July 2014 on the revision of the Geological and Mining Law as regards the clarification of concepts related to the proper conduct of works in all eliminated underground excavations. In addition, the proposed proposal proposes an extension of the duration of the implementing rules issued under Article. 110 Law of 9 June 2011. Geological and mining law. At the stage of work in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, amendments were fully accepted by the Free and Solidarnia Circle concerning the financing of the needs of geology for the country and amendments on the statutes of the State Geological Institute, which in our opinion will allow for improved work of the geological administration. In the margins of the legislative work carried out, it should be noted that the socio-economic environment has changed substantially, as well as the practice of geological and mining activities and the raw materials economy has changed. The regulations on spatial planning and nature conservation forms and scope have also changed significantly. New phenomena have emerged that lead to a conflict of industry-specific legal standards and spatial planning and municipal plans for revitalization and competition in access to land and infrastructure. This requires the introduction into the Polish legal system of full legal regulation, coherent with global standards and EU rules. The new Geological and Mining Law covering the management of raw materials and the geological protection of the country's raw materials should be a code, a uniform regulation systemically and consistently linked to regulations on water law, environmental protection, planning and spatial planning, real estate management, the conservation of agricultural and forestry land and the preservation of the national nature of the country's strategic natural resources. We expect the competent ministries to undertake intensive work to prepare a draft system regulation in this area. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the government bill amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u415	Thank you very much, sir. Six Members joined the questions. Does anyone else want to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When will the state's raw material policy finally be, Minister? At the moment we have paralysis consisting of e.g. in Greater Poland on the fact that the Minister of Agriculture is blocking the emergence of a new discovery, because there is no raw material policy of the state. Meanwhile, in Amendment 1, which I'm reading, you're just looking for money, you want to organize it to prepare and implement the state's raw material policy. In response to the interpellation I wrote to you a year ago, you informed me that within three years such a raw material policy would arise. It's way too long, but I'm taking three years. Are these three years running from today, which is from the moment you find this funding, or have they been running since that year, so let's say, in two years' time, we're going to have a raw material policy of the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u417	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform. Mr President, I would like to ask you a question. [[Unless you quit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u418	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to address the first question to Minister Tobiszowski. Well, what will it look like technically when part of the plant is taken over by the Company for the Restructuring of Mines and part remains in the company? And we all know that this mine demethane system is connected. What will the issue of concessions be like in such a situation? Will this concession be maintained by the main mining company, the former mine, or will it be divided in the context of the continued operation of the latter part? And another question, to the Minister, the chief geologist: What financial means do geologic services have today and how much thanks to the amendment which has been tabled in committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will additional appropriations be taken into account for these actions, which are explicitly mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u419	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukuz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that the amendment introduces an imprecise provision for financing the needs of geology in favour of a country that gives freedom of interpretation to the Minister of the Environment? There may practically be a situation where the funds transferred by mining to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management will be used to finance projects that are even detrimental to mining. We should mention here the operating fee: 60% municipalities, 40% National environmental fund. Why can't you e.g. limit the operating fee? We are all talking about withdrawing from the fiscal burden on mining. Why can't we even get 20% off full fees to give a little breath to the mining industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u421	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u422	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to ask you to explain one thing, because here it was said that the previous coalition was guilty, that it was necessary to bear such huge costs associated with these concessions for the demethaneisation, the extraction of methane. Something doesn't feel right. I mean, there weren't any problems like that before. These problems are only present at the moment, they are due to the fact that this concession cannot be transferred. Here is a specific question to the Minister: Has this problem occurred before? If he has, at least I haven't heard about it, then please confirm it if he hasn't, then why are you only a year later with this problem and burdening, as always, as on every occasion, the predecessors: that it's their fault that it's huge money, huge losses. That's the kind of ideology that gets started. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a problem, you have to solve it, not look for the guilty ones at the moment, because they're the ones who are taking down the mines. That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u423	Thank you very much. The last question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, is it true that the funds obtained as a result of the amendment will be used to finance the process of creating the Polish geological service? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u425	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, is the first to answer questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to Mr Kasprzak: there have been, but not on such a scale. On the other hand, this is not directly related to the liquidation, but to the transfer of certain parts of the property, which is why a process also appeared during the transfer. Let us remember: Kazimierz-Juliusz, earlier there were other objects, so this scale begins to appear in greater intensity, hence there is a need for this law and only what we talked about on the committee, I confirm. On the other hand, on the answer to Mr Gadowski. The concession is divided and the part that comes to the SRK loses the license. This remains in the part that remains active. Therefore, this law which we are introducing - if it were the will to continue using this possibility, the use of methane in this part of the SRK - is needed for this activity to be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u427	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, Minister of State at the Ministry of Environment, will now answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will try again to answer the questions in general. There is no transfer of any financial value shared between the needs of geology and mining, Commissioner. Mining will not feel these changes in any way, it will only feel a change in the possibility of extending the funding range of the country's needs, because today some things from the geological subfund - i.e. half of what mining has, fishing for geology, because this is shared - cannot be financed, e.g. performing documentation of deposits. We can't, for example. finance documentation of amber deposits, and it is basically in Poland that the value is very important. You can invest, we're trying to control this illegal operation. And you have to do it, you have to invest, and you have to do it according to the law, and that's what we're trying to do. So there's no way that mining could somehow lose on this. The second case, Mr Gadowski, asked for an extension of the regulations. Well, my dear High Izbo, this regulation concerns an area directive, which is related to an area directive, which should have been prepared by the previous government more than two years ago. We now have this directive prepared, it is after a social opinion and after the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers, it will be put to the Council of Ministers any minute and will probably be submitted to the High House within a month, which depends, of course, on government work. It's an extensive thing. Therefore, since it will immediately enter at a high rate, because we are behind on European solutions, then a new regulation will come in. Therefore, there is no point in giving a new regulation for two months. There is nothing to change, it is simply necessary to submit this regulation. Next case. Mr Sitarski asked... Actually, that's the answer to the same thing. The subfund is split in half: for geology and for mining. There's no way there's any loss as to the needs of mining at this point, whatever happened. Mr Gryglas. I'm sorry, I didn't understand what it meant to carry out a concession or a gas charge. It's just that there's no such terminology in geological law and mining law, so it's hard for me to say. Maybe it was about putting out the license. About the so-called. The 2020 concessions were the subject of the Geological Council, which had to be re-established because the previous government had abolished the Geological Council. The Mining Council has also been wound up. This was discussed by the Geological Council and the Mining Council. One record was prepared, even ready for a government notification, but during this work it turned out that many concessions that have been issued over the last few decades were issued on the basis of different legal bases, so different that it is impossible to introduce one simple record, one amendment in the Geological and Mining Law to extend the activities of all these mines simultaneously. It's not true that the case concerns... it's very urgent because a concession has just been granted. Glory - at the moment, two more may be given within a month. As a result, the issue is really about concessions that expire in 2019 and 2020. The next issue, Mr Zyśka, is whether the tasks of the geological service will be financed from this. Yeah, that's it. Same as today. Functions or roles, tasks of geological services are performed by the State Geological Institute and financed from this source. Nothing will change in this respect. When it comes to raw material policy, one of the Members asked, of course, this raw material policy, as I declared, will be within three years. We've been counting from the moment I declared that the meter was running. At the moment, we are preparing an outline of raw materials policy, as the next stage we are finishing preparing the concept and I think that you will be able to look at, criticize and comment peacefully within 3 years. As far as one more question is concerned, it concerns the abolition of the operating fee or the reduction of the operating fee. Ladies and gentlemen, the operating fee is generally what it serves, what it is. The size of the operating fee, as the Member has rightly said, is shared between municipalities and the State, with the exception of hydrocarbon charges, where the district is still an option. What is the purpose of this fee? In order to compensate, on the one hand, for the loss or nuisance of mining activities, but on the other hand to finance the country's future needs in the preparation of geological searches, the conduct of these geological searches, geological mapping, let's say, I hope soon, also the preparation of geological documentation or the financing of raw materials policy. These are the things that we could say in previous times, when the Central Geological Office was still in existence, that they were spent on these purposes, I think, 10 times, or maybe 100 times more moments. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, these operating fees for geology are just over 100 million each year, about 150 million. Imagine that one drilling with fracking, and this is a diagnosis of geological construction, because you need to know what it is like. The size of geological resources, one such drilling with fracturing costs about 50 million, so this is really a modest amount. And I guess everything, I answered all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u429	Thank you very much, Minister. In the correction mode, but very short, Mr Sitarski first. Excuse me, but please, because we're really behind schedule, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u430	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the correction mode, I'll allow myself one thing about concessions. The Minister was gracious to mention the concession of the mine of Chwałowice. Does the Minister know it took five years with a hook to get that license? And now the situation is what licenses? 11 concessions of Jastrzębska Spółka, 10 concessions of Katowice Holding Węglowy, 2 concessions of Lublin Coal, 17 concessions of the Polish Mining Group, 10 concessions of Tauron Extraction. Do you want me to go on? Brown coal, same thing. And here's the thing, that practically 40 concessions will expire by 2020. [[Secretary of State, Ministry of Environment Mariusz Orion Jędrysek: 39.]] How can the Ministry prepare 40 concessions in less than 5 years when one mine has been preparing it for more than 5 years? You just won't make it, and that's the whole game, Minister. It's about that, it's about nothing more. So that the mines can legally obtain deposits. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u431	Thank you very much. And in the short correction mode, Mr Ireneus will gain even more.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Not in substance this time, but in an equally important matter to me. My name is Ireneus profit. And I am not the one who asked the question, but Mr Stefan Romecki, to whom the Minister asked to answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u433	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, very briefly. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u434	In that case, I would like to apologize to the Member for twisting his name. I appreciate that and thank you for your support, because I do see that in the last vote, the last one you took, it is very clear that the need for raw materials policy is clear to you. Thank you for the deeper analysis. But here I'm going to say yes, the government is preparing such a change, these three concessions that would have expired because they wouldn't expire anymore, because they've been extended, and now they're going to be extended. The next threat is 2019. Until then, the government project will be in effect, I think that at the beginning of next year, by the middle of next year, the most farthest year to be passed and will be in force at least 2 years before the end of or 1.5 years before the expiry of the previous concession. Indeed, it took a long time to issue those concessions, to prepare them, for a few years. That's right. You listed them all, because this is really about 36 concessions today, Mr President, because there were 39, of which 3 are already practically... 1 issued and 2 will be issued in the coming weeks. Therefore, a separate project will be prepared, with a full analysis and adaptation of the legal provisions for each of these concessions, depending on which legal provisions have been issued, from the Decree of Bierut to the Geological and Mining Law adopted in 1994 and subsequently amended several times. Let's not make a mess, let's just do it right, straight, so no one has any doubts. It is important to remember that the terminology has changed, which is probably not in this project. We'll see. I'll take another look at him. There are no mining contracts, first of all there were no mining contracts, which then came in. That, too, must be taken into account, these agreements must be analysed. If we analyze everything, it will be possible to send a thorough, honest government project. Then, of course, you will be able to comment on it. At the moment, it would just be irresponsible to launch a simple project, as I have seen this project, without analyzing all the concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u435	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the clubs for their contributions to the debate on the report of the joint committees, although I have the impression that I have not been fully understood by some speakers. Mr President, I am not here to sound the alarm and to create a mood of horror. Anyone who has the slightest idea of mining knows that methane is an explosive gas that poses a threat. If it wasn't, we wouldn't be spending that much money on demethane systems. It's obvious that you have to do everything you can to keep that methane from leaking out. I guess that's the obvious thing. As regards the amendments, we will discuss them, debate them at the joint committee meeting. On the other hand, as regards the statements concerning the national environmental fund, I would like to remind all the ladies and gentlemen who cared about the state of the funds of the fund that we have found, the management of the fund, set up by our government, has found a national fund in a catastrophic state, in a state of close collapse. It was only corrective action that brought the fund back to balance. If this trend, which prevailed in previous years, had been maintained, at the end of 2017, the fund's resources would have been minus PLN 500 million. So don't take so much care, because already, as I say, corrective actions in the fund have been carried out and he can perform his role, and I remind you that he is one of the most important instruments in the hands of the Minister of the Environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u437	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the Government draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws (prints Nos 999 and 1011). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u438	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the Act amending the Energy Law and some other laws, print No 999. The Commission discussed the draft law presented on 15 November. The committee's report is contained in print No 1011. At the meeting, a single amendment to the project was proposed and its aim is to reduce the use of fuel that is imported into the country as lubricant. The draft itself amends the Energy Law Act, the Law of 25 August 2006 on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels, the Law on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas, and the rules for dealing with situations of threat to the fuel safety of the state and disturbances on the oil market and the Act of 22 July 2016 amending the Energy Law Act and certain other laws. High Izbo, the project submitted serves three main objectives. The first is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 10 September 2015 on the regulation of gas prices. The second objective of the amendment is to ensure that solutions to reduce the grey economy in fuel trading and to maintain mandatory stocks of natural gas introduced by the Energy Law and the Wrestling Act in July are operational in practice. The third objective is to correct the national indicative target. Each of them should be completed as soon as possible, so in the design contained in one printing we have records on such different areas that they can be processed as soon as possible. As regards the regulation of natural gas prices, ladies and gentlemen, the amendments introduced in the proposed proposal consist in abolishing the obligation for natural gas traders to set and submit gas price tariffs to be approved by the President of the URE. This obligation has been found by the Court of Justice of the European Union to be incompatible with the requirements of Union law. The requirement to approve natural gas prices was considered to be a serious obstacle to the development of a competitive natural gas market. For this reason, the proposed provisions provide for a complete waiver of the regulation of the price of natural gas, except that the release of prices for individual customer groups will take place at different dates. According to the project, on the date of entry into force of the Act prices will be set free for gas undertakings for wholesale sales, at a virtual point, including the commodity stock exchange, CNG and liquefied natural gas LNG, as well as for tenders, auctions and public procurement. The second stage of the release of prices will start on 1 October 2017, when prices will be released to all end-users except household customers. As regards prices for household customers, they will be released on 1 January 2024. For this group of customers, it is proposed to shift so much over time due to their still relatively low activity in switching suppliers. It is also about providing this group of customers with a transitional period during which they will be able to purchase natural gas at tariff prices. This will enable customers to gradually prepare for the requirements of the revised market structure and increase their awareness of their rights. It should be pointed out that the proposed project provides for a mechanism to ensure that the existing natural gas sales contracts and comprehensive contracts are properly adapted to the requirements of the project submitted. In the case in question, the agreement in force on the date of entry into force of this Act refers to the prices of natural gas in the approved tariff. It is necessary to introduce contractual provisions which will allow for a precise determination of this price without referring to the tariff prices, from which we want to give up. The draft requires a trading firm to make efforts to adapt its binding sales contracts and comprehensive contracts with customers. To this end, an obligation to send the recipient of the draft amendment to the agreement regarding the proposed prices of gaseous fuels and how they are determined, which is not subject to tariff. The draft amendment of the contract should be sent in time to adapt the contract before the obligation to submit tariffs for approval ceases to exist within the time limits mentioned earlier, i.e. before 1 October 2017 for industrial customers and 1 January 2024 for household customers. In order to ensure sufficient time for the recipient of gas fuels to decide whether to terminate the sale contract or the comprehensive contract, the marketing of the draft amendment should take place no later than 2 months before the expiry of the abovementioned deadlines. In addition, the project guarantees all customers the right to terminate a contract for the sale of gaseous fuels or a comprehensive contract without additional costs. In order to terminate the contract, the recipient must submit a written notice to the energy undertaking. The agreement will be terminated on the last day of the month following the month in which the recipient's declaration was received by the energy undertaking. In addition, the consignee shall be able to indicate the moment of termination after the specified date. As regards the practical functioning of solutions limiting the functioning of the grey zone in the trading of fuels and the maintenance of mandatory stocks of natural gas introduced in the Energy Law Act in July this year, the proposal provides for a number of editorial, regulatory and complementary amendments to the provisions of the Act of 22 July 2016 amending the Energy Law and certain other laws, the Energy Law of 10 April 1997, the Law of 25 August 2006 on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and the Law of 16 February 2007 on oil stocks, petroleum products and natural gas and the principles of dealing with situations of fuel security of the State and disturbances on the oil market. As regards the provisions correcting the achievement of the national indicative objective, the project provides for two solutions which are important for the functioning of entrepreneurs. First of all, it reduces the level of national indicative targets in 2017 from the current level of 7.8% to a level of 7.1%. A justification for reducing national indicative targets in 2017 is the increased increase in the demand for liquid fuels observed recently and resulting from the entry into force of the package of legal changes to reduce the functioning of the grey area. As a result of the legal solutions introduced in recent months, there has been an increased official demand for transport fuels and thus also for biocomponents used to achieve national indicative targets. The solution introduced will significantly reduce the costs of this obligation borne by manufacturers and importers of fuels. At the same time, it is worth noting that the reduction of the NCW in 2017 will not adversely affect the sector of agricultural producers supplying raw materials for the production of biocomponents, as the demand for biocomponents will remain at the level of the current year. The reduction of national indicative targets will in this case be offset by the increase in fuel demand due to the reduction of the grey zone. Ladies and gentlemen! Another of the arrangements introduced in the area of mechanisms for achieving national indicative targets concerns the introduction of annual, i.e. until 1 January 2017, deferring the obligation for biocomponents to meet the criteria for reducing greenhouse gas emissions of 50% of the NCW , leaving the level of the above-mentioned restriction for 2017 at the previous level. The proposed solution is in line with European Union legislation in this area. The amendment will significantly improve the situation of agricultural producers producing biomass and national biocomponent manufacturers who will not be required to ensure that their biocomponents already meet the strict criteria for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 1 January 2017. During the committee's work, a number of proposals for amendments were also presented, but were not accepted by the committee. However, this was not due to their negative assessment, but to the request for more time for the Ministry to evaluate them in substance. I therefore assume that these amendments, ladies and gentlemen, may be tabled today during the forthcoming speeches of representatives of the various parliamentary clubs. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, on behalf of the committee, I ask that the proposed proposal be adopted together with the amendment tabled at the beginning during the committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u439	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Iwona Arent on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u440	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the government draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, prints Nos 999 and 1011. The draft submitted serves three purposes, as presented at the committee meeting by the Minister. The first objective is primarily to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 10 September 2015 on the regulation of gas prices. The second objective is to ensure that solutions to reduce the grey economy in fuel trading and to maintain mandatory natural gas stocks are functioning effectively in practice. The third objective is to correct the national indicative target. With regard to the first objective, the requirement to approve natural gas prices was considered to be a serious obstacle to the development of a competitive natural gas market and therefore the provisions in this draft trigger the release of gas prices. This will be done on different dates for individual groups of consumers, and this is what the rapporteur has said. In the first stage, prices for gas companies will be released for wholesale, virtual, among others. exchange, tenders, auctions and public procurement, and in the case of compressed and liquefied natural gas. In the second stage, i.e. 1 October 2017, prices will be released for all end-users except household customers. In the third stage, from 1 January 2024, this price release will apply to household customers. The project provides for a mechanism to ensure that existing natural gas sales contracts comply with the requirements of this project. As regards the second objective, i.e. solutions limiting the functioning of the grey zone in the trading of fuels and maintaining mandatory stocks of natural gas, a number of drafting and ordering changes have been introduced in this project. As regards the third objective, i.e. the correction of the national indicative target, the project envisages a reduction of the national NCW indicator in 2017 from the current level of 7,8% to a level of 7.1%. The solutions put in place will significantly reduce the costs of this obligation for manufacturers and importers of fuels, while the demand for biocomponents will remain at the current level. The project also introduces an annual deferral by 1 January 2018 of the obligation for bio-components to comply with the 50% greenhouse gas emission reduction criterion for the implementation of the NCW. , leaving its level for 2017 at its current altitude. This is in line with Union legislation. The benefits of these changes are the improvement of the situation of agricultural producers producing biomass and national biocomponent manufacturers. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In our assessment, the proposed legislation will increase the number of natural gas operators in Poland by removing the obligation to submit tariffs for approval by the President of URE, which is seen as one of the fundamental barriers to entry into the Polish market. However, as the rapporteur said, we have examined this proposal and we want to make amendments to this proposal. Shortly, very briefly, because I'm on the clock, I'll discuss the amendments. The first amendment says... Of course, we will discuss them in committee and vote on them in the near future. The first amendment amends the Article. Point 1 (5). According to Art. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 (4) of the Energy Law, the President of the URE shall withdraw the concession in any event in breach of any of the conditions. The point here is that - if the company, the company is in bankruptcy, in settlement or in liquidation - not to bring [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the situation of limitation for target gas customers...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u441	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u442	I'm almost done, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u443	Member, we will be spending time here until 4th...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u444	Okay, then we're gonna make 12 amendments. We'll make a statement of reasons at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak will now speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u446	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was my honor to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding 999 and 1011 prints. Since 1997, we've had gas tariffs, gas fuels. A roadmap to achieve the release of gas prices was introduced by the Civic Platform and PSL government in 2010, following the directives that emerged in the European Union in 2003 and 2009. I am pleased to note that this time the impact assessment prepared by the PiS government honors the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, because it shows that the process of releasing the gas market was very consistent and aimed at creating competition in this market, competition which will be the basis for releasing gas prices to the end. Expansion of cross-border capacity, completion of LNG terminal construction, launch of a virtual gas trading point, the Freight Energy Exchange and the OTC market, the obligation to sell gas by PGNiG by so-called. Exchange obligation, the creation of PGNiG Retail Trading company, enabling a quick change of seller - it is enough to release small gas importers up to 100 million m3 from strategic stocks - all this, including the monopoly proceedings carried out by the UOKiK against PGNiG, has led to the fact that there has actually been an increase in competitive pressure on the introduction of gas into domestic transmission, an increase in the liquidity of the Polish wholesale gas market, an increase in competition - finally the fight for the customer - or the free development of gas prices for most final customers, from 2014 to today, a fall in prices by more than 40%. And all of this is based on competition, competition, which is the key so that we can apply a release mechanism, opting out of gas pricing. But there's this, little maybe, disgusting thing in this flavor. It turns out that we were consistent, and the PiS government is not consistent, because one of the assumptions that made the market more flexible, namely the resignation of strategic stocks by companies bringing gas to 100 million m3, was removed in July by the amendment of the Energy Law. I'm afraid that... I hope that, when you stand up for the European Union, it is about giving up tariffs, that you will not give up the next points that have already been introduced and which have made the entire market more flexible. The question, however, is whether the market release carried out by the PO-PSL government is sufficient to ensure that competition works and that there is no increase in gas prices for industry. The industry was consulted because it was a government project, so there was finally a consultation. The industry has stated that it is not concerned about this and therefore accepts the exemption from the obligation to tariff the URE as of 1 October 2017. But the government puts forward, and the Civic Platform supports that, the household tariff shield by January 1, 2024. The second thing that's in this bill is the amendment, the improvement of what was left with excessive haste by the PiS government a little bit wrong. Unfortunately, the amendment of the Energy Law of July does not improve e.g. 10 million, which must pay the importing gas or the elimination of these redundancies, but improves the definitions and supposedly seals the whole process. We'll keep an eye on it. The last issue is the national indicator target for biofuels. It is about the descent and saving by Lotos and Orlen 160 million PLN on the fact that there will not be a national indicator target as set out in the assumptions, i.e. 7.5% And it's going to be 7.1%. It's gonna save Orlen, but I don't know if it's gonna save those who invested, farmers. Farmers report protests here, but the government consistently [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's standing guard...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u447	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u448	...orlen's weapons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u449	Mr Sitarski will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u450	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to present the position of the club regarding the draft amendment to the Energy Law Act and some other laws. In general, there are no major objections to the content presented. However, a matter of debate is the loss of the concession when the concession was not used for 12 months. You'd still have to think about that. As far as I'm concerned, there will be amendments to be made, so this is where the matter is still to be discussed in committee. It is equally debatable to lose the license when it is alleged that the entrepreneur is guilty. These are two points that really shouldn't have happened there. In general, everything else is acceptable. Yet, in relation to the words of my previous speaker, I would like to mention the government's declaration on monitoring companies in the fuel industry and those unfortunate 10 million. How's that gonna go? It's been a month for this moment. We'll wait another three months, and then we'll ask if the government has an answer on this issue, how it's shaped in the market. At the moment, the project will support Kukiz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u451	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern on the draft law on the amendment of the Energy Law Act and some other laws. An essential element of the draft law is the amendment of the Energy Law on the abolition of the obligation for the President of the URE to approve the prices of natural gas for customers from 1 October to traders and other non-domestic customers, and from 2024 also to customers in households. This element of the amendment is intended to implement the judgment of the Court of Justice of September 2015, which would result in the opening of proceedings against Poland and possible financial penalties, so it is good that we are introducing these provisions. Since October 2017, the situation on the gas market in Poland will be the same as in the electricity market, where energy prices are regulated in tariffs exclusively for households, and for other customers there is a competitive market. We know that this market is not yet fully operational, but hopefully it will eventually function properly. In this respect, the project is positive. It should result in an increase in the number of companies active in the natural gas market in Poland and thus increase competition in this market. In the case of biofuels, too, the project aims to transpose the relevant provisions of European Union law, but only to the extent that proceedings are taking place against Poland. Please, the changes in the gas sector proposed in the draft act, gradually abolishing the obligation to approve tariffs, have been repeatedly requested by both gas companies and by the largest gas customers in Poland, so they should be assessed positively. Only doubts may arise as to the fact that the departure from price control through tariff approval occurs in the event of amendments to the previous Act, i.e. the Act of 16 February 2007. Amendment made on 22 July this year. eliminated both indications when the company could import gas from abroad without creating a mandatory supply. The existence of these conditions disciplined the dominant player, i.e. Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe and Gazowiectwo, and was an indication of why he offered gas on the stock market at a price corresponding to the price of gas on the German market plus the cost of bringing it to Poland. Unfortunately, today there will be no more pressure. When the dominant player wanted to offer gas at a higher price, he always had to deal with the possibility of reacting to competition, especially from small players who could bring this gas from abroad up to 100 million m3 and offer it on the stock exchange or directly to customers. Today this situation causes that Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry, as I said, will not have these restrictions. Modern amendments to this law. The amendments are detailed and relate to Article. 33 and Article 33 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u453	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u454	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to refer to this law, which we have come to discuss today. The Act is three-part, while the first element concerning the release of gas prices is important. Earlier, I would point out that there were concerns that the release of gas prices could lead to an increase in gas prices for our industry, but today, when it is possible, it all worked out, it got there, there is no such concern, it can even contribute to greater competitiveness and lower prices. It is good that we continue to maintain the protection of individual consumers, because here this threat is large and any hesitation could adversely affect the poorest. It is also important that the last element mentioned here is the national indicator target, i.e. biofuels. I'll remind you of all the battles that took place. Years ago, when the European Union imposed on us the need to add a certain percentage of agricultural products to fuels, defining this as a national indicator objective. I remember what concerns were then, and even the protests of the producers, our monopolists, so to speak, the distributors of gasoline, diesel, that the engines would fade. Well, there was a tragedy, the end of the world was supposed to be, and then it turns out that you can drive on the biofuel itself and nothing happens. This was supposed to give our agriculture a chance, especially in terms of waste management, and to be honest, it worked out, because today, rape or maize are excellent raw materials. On the other hand, it's clean and healthy fuel, we don't import it, it's ours, it's ours. If you follow in the footsteps of Minister Szyszko, then CO2 is absorbed because this green mass somewhere exists, Minister Szyszko invented that forests are consuming. Of course, it's about assimilation, and here it is, you can't hide it, so we can boast about it. It was supposed to be 10%. Then the Union began to retreat slightly. We have production potential, so I'm wondering why we want to go down from 7.8%. up to 7.1% , save on it, and it was supposed to be 10%. Of course, under these indicators, under these needs, as someone has said here, they have set up their production of our native producers and this is happening in our country, they are specific devices, so if we are to gradually withdraw, because today we say that 7.1% and maybe in a moment we'll reduce this indicator target - let me remind you that it was going to be 10% - it will be a shot in the back of those who produce it, but most of all farmers, because I want to confirm once again that the production of rape in our country is increasing from year to year, the production of maize is increasing from year to year, and at the moment there is a harvest of maize and the price of maize is so unattractive that it is a problem because farmers of PLN 180 per grain of maize under these conditions are getting. It is worrying to us that the Ministry does not see the need to support our agriculture. We're gonna save... [[Time.]] I still have time, sir. Don't be nervous. So much for the club of the Polish People's Party. We will refer to this point in committee and during the vote on the amendments tabled today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u455	Thank you. On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneusz Oda will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u456	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, prints Nos 999 and 1011. This project leads to three objectives. The first is the implementation of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 10 September 2015 and the alignment of the provisions of the Act with the provisions of Directive 2009/73/EC as regards State intervention requirements relating to the regulation of natural gas prices by excluding energy undertakings from the obligation to submit tariffs for approval by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. The second objective concerns the limitation of the grey zone in the trading of fuels and the arrangements for maintaining mandatory stocks of natural gas introduced by the Energy Law and the Wrestling Act. The third objective is to correct the national indicative target for determining the levels of national indicative targets for subsequent years by reducing the costs of implementation of the NCW. It is doubtful that such different objectives can be achieved in a single bill. I understand that we are acting under pressure of time, but this may affect the quality of legislation. The Commission for Energy and Treasury after first reading and after considering the draft law at its meeting on 15 November 2016 introduced editorial and adaptation amendments. During the discussion there were issues of great importance for the functioning of the fuel market, reported by the Polish Chamber of Liquid Fuels and the Legal Office of the Sejm Chancellery. These include: the definition of foreign fuel trading, tightening penalties with a number of interpretative doubts, inconsistencies in reporting obligations, the mode of updating concessions in relation to the dates of entry into force of the relevant regulations, the uncertainty about the carriage of dangerous goods and the approach to obligations arising from fuel processing processes. The proposed proposal proposes a gradual abolition of the regulation of natural gas prices for individual customer groups, which is intended to lead to a more competitive market. The draft submitted provides for protection for households until 1 January 2024. A positive assessment should be made to ensure that all customers have the right to terminate their contract for the sale of gaseous fuels or a comprehensive contract without additional costs. With regard to solutions limiting the functioning of the grey zone in the trading of fuels and arrangements for maintaining mandatory stocks of natural gas, introduced by the Energy Law in July this year. It must be said that this introduction of a number of further drafting and ordering changes should help to achieve this ambitious goal. The reduction of national indicative targets in 2017 from the current level of 7.8% should be well assessed. to a level of 7.1%. This will significantly reduce the costs for fuel manufacturers and importers and, at the same time, we believe, will not adversely affect the sector of agricultural producers supplying raw materials for the production of biocomponents, as the demand for biocomponents will remain at the level of the current year, which results from the reduction of the grey zone. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government's draft law on amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, while signaling the need for further improvement of the Energy Law in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u457	Thank you very much. Eight Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Nowak from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am a little concerned, because although I praise that the government of PiS, in running the government law, carried out a consultation process - we have all these companies with which it was consulted - we have nothing on the Coalition for Biofuels, the National Association of Producers of Rat and Protein Plants, the Polish Association of Oil Producers, the National Chamber of Biofuels, the Association of Polish Gorzelnia etc. They are all opposed to a reduction in the national indicator target, and nothing about it is in the information that is given in the impact assessment. You have made a decision to save 160 million, this decision undoubtedly favours Orlen and Lotus, but it has a negative impact on this Coalition for Biofuels. So, how is it: Have you considered all the arguments for and against which the Coalition for Biofuels has submitted, or have you considered that this protest is non-existent? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u459	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u460	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, we need to look with concern at what is being achieved under the national indicator target for biofuels and biocomponents. Minister, the Union has imposed its conditions, this indicator is expected to be 10% in 2020 , and we keep the 7,1 index here in 2016, and then we try to flatten because it was proposed in 2017 7.8, and now we flatten it to 8,5% by 2020. What happens when we flatten him like that? And such a question, Minister: Is it because of this that we will not keep these indicators of the European Union of 10% Are we going to have to suffer the consequences somehow - whether it's in the form of penalties or other things? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u461	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the provisions of this Act, the price of natural gas for household customers will continue to be subject to scrutiny by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office for the next 7 years of the transitional period. During this period, competition is expected to develop further by reducing legal barriers and developing gas infrastructure. On the occasion of the latter, in terms of the development of gas networks, I would like to ask the Minister of Energy a question. Unfortunately, there are very large disparities in the gasification of urban and rural areas. This is of great importance to air pollution by smog, e.g. in my region. Changes are needed to remove legal barriers, in particular legislation regulating environmental issues, water law, antiquities, public roads or technical regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Will the Ministry of Energy develop solutions that will facilitate the development of gas networks, especially in rural areas? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u463	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u464	Now is my time, thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Didn't the Minister of Agriculture protest here against reducing the NCW? Saying that we will have savings of PLN 160 million, that's a little bit, I think, irony, because we will have to leave the same amount of fuel - or more, because cars are coming. So let us be blunt: we want to replace what was supposed to be our native production, so biocomponents, esters and spirits, just imported oil. Maybe better - this is more expensive, yes, a little more expensive - so that it is produced in our country and is a power source instead of imported from abroad. And we know where we're bringing the oil from, where we've been bringing it from so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I ask again: Didn't the Minister of Agriculture protest here on behalf of farmers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u465	The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question concerns the aforementioned article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3c, which provides for the possibility for the President of the URE to suspend the concession procedure in the case of an applicant for whom a provision has been made to make allegations of a criminal offence or a tax offence relating to his activities. The question is obvious: Is this not contrary to the principle of presumption of innocence? It doesn't mean anything just to press charges. An entrepreneur should be able to continue his business until the judgment of the court is final. This question also concerns the possible liability of the State Treasury in the event of such conduct. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, it did not lead to a judicial judgment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u467	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quick question. The explanatory memorandum of the project states that the addition of an article. 15a is intended to clarify the interpretation doubts related to the application of the provisions of the diversion Regulation. Therefore, I ask you to state exactly what interpretation doubts we will avoid that have occurred before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u469	Thank you. The question is asked by Wojciech Zubowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u470	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One brief question to the government representative. One of these amendments adopted is to add the word "smary" to the list. In short, this is related to the fact that after the fuel package came into force, a method of avoiding the legal way of introducing fuel was observed, which is, in short, a grey zone. They started to introduce to our market something that was labeled as lubrication oil, something that had all kinds of diesel parameters. Brief question: When will you issue the regulations needed to complement the definition of liquid fuels, so that it will not hinder the functioning of importers of lubricating oils operating fully legally? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u471	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u472	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Art. Article 42a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the project says: "The concession for the production of liquid fuels or the concession for the marketing of liquid fuels from abroad expires if the energy company does not show in the reports referred to in Article for a further 12 months. 43d, carrying out the activities covered by the concession. I wanted to ask: What is the purpose of this record? Is it not contrary to the principle of freedom, freedom of business? Because, even given the changes in the economic situation, it is possible to assume that the entrepreneur must temporarily suspend the activity in this area for reasons related to the profitability of the activity during a given period. It can also be assumed that the entrepreneur temporarily resigns from this particular activity, his forces and resources are spent on a completely different activity, while after a year, after 15 months, he returns [[♪ The bell ♪]] for this activity. So at this point...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u473	Thank you. List of Members to vote...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u474	...taking into account this recipe, he won't be able to run it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u475	...was exhausted. Now the Undersecretary will speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u476	I therefore ask you to explain what the purpose of this record is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u477	...state at the Ministry of Energy Michał Kurtyka. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the questions. Let me refer to the ones that appeared most at the beginning. As far as the national objective is concerned, we are indeed dealing with a more gentle trajectory. This gentler trajectory, instead of 7,8%. 7.1% for next year It will allow us to achieve the NCW targets. Let me just remind you that we have one of the highest national indicative targets across the European Union. That's the fifth pointer in terms of size. And there is nothing to suggest that we should not achieve the target of achieving 10% by 2020, with a 10% share of 8,5% in 2020. as defined by this Act. I would like to remind you that so far the national indicator target has been regulated by the Regulation, so at this moment this trajectory of the change of the national indicator target is more secure, as enshrined in the Act, from 7,1% up to 8,5% in 2020 Other 1,5% is carried out by means of the use of electricity in transport. This is not only a question of electric buses, but also of trolleybuses and trams. This reduction in the national indicative target between 2016 and 2017 allows us to obtain a number of benefits for the sector, for consumers, but will not adversely affect the sector of agricultural producers supplying raw materials for the production of biocomponents. This is because we are dealing with a larger volume of fuel production. This is due to the success of the package limiting the grey zone. We are seeing significant increases in legal purchases on the wholesale fuel market, and as the volume is growing, the national indicator target refers to this volume as a percentage. Therefore, by increasing the volume and although we will reduce the national indicative target for next year, the volume of contracted production of biocomponents in farmers will remain unchanged. This project was the subject of government work. The Minister of Agriculture, referring here to the question that has been specifically asked, supported this project. There was also a meeting on this issue at the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, and because it does not have any negative effects on the agricultural sector, this was supported by the Minister of Agriculture, with about 70% in terms of production of biocomponents. it is currently produced in Poland. As regards the review and the individual substances covered by the Act and, in fact, the Regulation defining the CN codes, one of the entries is also a review every 2 years of the adequacy of those codes. We can adjust the product list and we'll do it. The fight against the grey zone requires consequences, patience and responsiveness in response to changing market conditions. There was a question about the provision of the article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. This provision is currently in force and I will remind you of its wording: the President of the Energy Regulatory Office shall suspend the procedure for granting concessions in the case of an applicant for whom a provision has been made to state allegations of a criminal offence or of a tax offence relating to the subject-matter of an economic activity as defined by the law, or where such provision has been issued against the persons and members referred to in paragraph 1. 3a, until the proceedings are concluded. On the other hand, as regards the issue of the diversion regulation, the Act of 22 July authorised the Council of Ministers to issue a new diversion regulation. The current rules, i.e. the previous diversion regulation, do not respond to the needs of the market and the current situation as regards the changes that took place after Poland's entry into the European Union, as well as the expansion of our infrastructure, among others. the arrival of LNG terminal in Świnoujście. At the same time, however, we must face up to the administrative proceedings currently being conducted by the President of the URE on the basis of those provisions, not fully responding to the needs, as I mentioned, of the current situation. For this reason, it is necessary to introduce a transitional provision, namely Article. 15a added by this project, which will allow the termination of these proceedings. It should be stressed that there is a very large number of proceedings. They concern a number of issues, including: the eligibility of imported gas. When we joined the European Union, intra-Community acquisition from the point of view of the common market rules is no longer an import. The gas supplied by the virtual reverse is diversified, the interpretation of the country of origin - these are all the issues that have led to the proceedings and which Article. 15a allows it to be settled in such a way that it also complies with EU rules. I would add that the disparate regulation - its novel, to which the Council of Ministers has been authorised - has gone into consultation in recent days and will have a legislative consultation process that will be concluded, I hope, very quickly, so that this issue will also be resolved quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, rapporteur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u480	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, also referring to the Minister's statements and concerns about national indicative targets. Ladies and gentlemen, after the introduction of the so-called: fuel package the number of tanks from Germany itself entering Poland fell from 700 to about 150 a day. As far as Lotus and Orlen are concerned, there is a rapid increase in fuel demand. In short, the fuel package has worked. The demand for legally imported fuel has increased. As far as farmers are concerned, producers, if I were them, I would in no way be concerned that the national indicator target is 7,1%. in any way threatens them with regard to their business, because we are simply sealing the market at this point when it comes to bringing in fuel, and there will certainly be no such threat here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u481	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws (prints No. 997 and 1000). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law on amending the Act on Vehicle Managers and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No.997, was examined after first reading at the joint meeting of the Digital, Innovation and Modern Technology Commission and the Infrastructure Commission on 14 November this year. The project concerns the IT system of the Central Vehicle Registration and Drivers CEPiK. This complex and extremely complex system affects many entities, and the most important among them are district old offices, police, main road transport office, Polish Security Printing Works, voivodship road traffic centres, driver training centres and vehicle control stations. The old Act of 24 July 2015 included amendments to create a legal framework for the implementation of the CepiK 2.0 IT project aimed at rebuilding the central vehicle register (CEP), the central driver register (CEK), and the central registration of car card holders (CEPKP). Another amendment of the Road Traffic Law of 16 December 2015 postponed the date of entry into force of CEPiK 2.0 to 1 January 2017, taking into account the insufficient preparation of all users of the system for its implementation. Recently, a number of important information has been obtained as a result of an audit carried out on behalf of the government among all stakeholders. The high risk of failure to implement the system as of 1 January 2017 and the lack of all components of the ICT infrastructure and the additional need to eliminate legal gaps in other laws appear to indicate that the optimal deadline for implementing the Act is 28 June 2018, and this deadline is also defined in the Act as the main amendment. High Seym! The joint committees have adopted a government bill together with three legislative amendments and recommend that the High House adopt the law as set out in the report of the committee provided to ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's printing No 1000. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u483	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Wozniak will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers and some other laws, print No. 997. The amendment of the Act aims mainly to postpone the implementation of the complex IT system of CEPiK 2.0, which will concern drivers and many public institutions, among others. These are: Police, Chief Inspector of Road Transport, Old Town, Polish Security Printing Works, Road Traffic Centres, Voivodship Driver Training Centres and Vehicle Control Stations. The aim of the CEPiK 2.0 system is the reconstruction and modernisation of the central vehicle register, the central driver register, as well as the construction of the central register of car card holders. The Act was to enter into force on 4 January 2016. On the basis of the Act of 16 December 2015 amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, the date of entry into force of the abovementioned Law. the provisions relating to the implementation of the CepiK 2.0 IT project have been postponed, as amended on 1 January 2017. The delay in the start-up date of the CEPiK 2.0 system was related to insufficient preparation of system users for implementation, in particular systems operated in old-age areas, essential for the performance of vehicle registration tasks and the issue of driving rights. In view of the information received from the stakeholders of the system, the Minister of Digitisation commissioned an audit on the state of preparation for the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0. . One of the main recommendations resulting from this audit is the need to change and implement the implementation schedule of the CEPiK 2.0 due to the high risk of failure to implement the system by 1 January 2017 due to the lack of all components of the ICT infrastructure for all entities that will potentially benefit from it - as I said earlier - are old-age, traffic centres or police. The draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers and some other laws, extending the vacathio legis once again for the provisions implementing the CEPiK 2.0 system, is intended to allow for comprehensive preparation of the modernisation and start-up of the system. The process of switching to a modernised system is a complex process and involves the migration of a very large amount of data from multiple sources and the switching of a large number of actors. From the point of view of the calendar and its distribution so-called. the long weekends during which it would be possible to implement this system without interference shall be set at 4 June 2018. The implementation of the revised rules and the implementation of the CEPiK 2.0 system is foreseen within this deadline. . In this amendment, it is also important to change, which aims to bridge the legal gap that allows people who commit, among other things. an infringement involving driving at a speed exceeding 50 km/h permitted in an area built up to circumvent the retention provisions of a driving licence for 3 months by failure to present that document during a roadside inspection. Currently, information on the physical retention of the driving licence during the roadside inspection is the basis for initiating proceedings on the issue of a decision to retain the driving licence. This means that the absence of a retained driving licence during the inspection determines, until the start of the CEPiK 2.0 ICT system, the possibility of an administrative decision to retain that licence cannot be issued by the governor. So it's enough for the driver to inform the inspector that he forgot to bring his driver's license, and he only gets a ticket. for lack of a document while driving and avoids stopping the driver's licence. Another important change concerns heading for a reeducation course. In the current legal state, the information about driving under the influence of alcohol directly affects the old age from the court in the form of a copy of the judgment, i.e. the governor, although he has such information, cannot make a decision to refer the driver to an appropriate re-education course. This law, this amendment of the law, allows for the smooth implementation of this provision. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I ask the High House to accept the above. amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u485	Mr Paweł Arndt will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! We are considering a bill amending the Act on vehicle managers, but also a few other laws. On this occasion, we are amending the Law on Road Traffic, the Penal Code, the Law on Departments of State Administration. As my previous speakers said, the most important element of this amendment is the shift during the entry into force of the CEPiK 2.0 teleinformation system. . This is a very complex and extensive system and indeed its implementation requires a lot of precise action. Although work on this system has been ongoing since September 2013 and there have already been several deadlines for its entry into force, it has not yet been implemented, but hopefully this time it will succeed. As I said, this is a very complicated system that affects many actors. Several ministries and departments have oversight of this: Ministry of Treasury, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Infrastructure, and since 1 January 2016 the whole is coordinated by the Minister of Digitization. This system affects a multitude of actors. That's what the previous speakers have been talking about. Starostwa, Police, voivodship road traffic centers, training centers of drivers, which in Poland are about 7 thousand, vehicle control stations, which are 4 thousand. All this means that in order to actually implement this system without a problem, it takes a little more time. On the basis of the justification - I will read a passage here - it appears that the delay in the start-up period was due to insufficient preparation of system users for implementation, in particular systems operated in old-age and related tasks relating to vehicle registration and driving rights. 4 June 2018 - it seems that this is quite a distant date and one might wonder if this project could not be implemented earlier, but I think this 4 June is good because, as one of my previous speakers said here, it is a deadline after a long weekend and then it is easier to implement such projects. It could probably be considered whether it could be introduced at the beginning of the year, as the previous projects said about January: one on January 2016, another on January 2017. This is also after the weekend, but I think that after the weekend, which is God's Body, because this happens in June 2018, it is easier to introduce such a system than after New Year's Eve. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform, on behalf of which I am acting, will support this project, and will support the changes proposed by the Minister for Digitalisation. I would also like to say that it is quite important that we specify the catalogue of vehicle brands in order to avoid the freedom to introduce technical data. It's pretty important, 'cause it's been missing that precision so far. These 30 elements, which are intended to characterize the vehicle, are included in this project. In addition to this shift at the time of the entry into force of the system, the draft contains legislative changes aimed at closing legal gaps. That's what my previous speakers were talking about. These seem to be the changes that are needed. These gaps must be eliminated. In conclusion, once again, I would like to say that the Civic Platform will support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u487	Thank you. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Maciej Masławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u488	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the committee on a draft government bill amending the Act on Vehicle Managers and some other laws. What exactly is there to say here? The bill is in my opinion, in fact, in the opinion of our club, very good. In my opinion, it was very fruitful to have a committee meeting on 14 November, when Mr Wozny, Undersecretary of State, presented to us why they came to us. And the most interesting thing about all of this was why they came, when they told us what they found, when they took over, you could say, this project, in other words, what an unimaginable mess the previous ruling crew left behind. I'm saying this from a computer scientist's point of view, because if I'm hearing $1,000 from the government. coordinators or 100, whatever, I could check it out, about project coordinators who weren't actually communicating with each other... Or another thing: the contractor of the central base is one contractor, and the local base the other and they do not communicate with each other. When we talk about the legislative side and there are to be 25 regulations, two of which were issued on 1 January, what are we talking about? It's not weird that this project is being moved. And good, because there's still a lot to do, although I know, I'm convinced that the Ministry of Digitalization is the one who can handle it, because... Here, by replying or perhaps not replying, but quoting Mr Arndt from the Civic Platform, my predecessor, I will say: no, it would not have happened sooner. First of all, the time left is perfect, and in the committee it was explained why it was on 4 June. Because there is God's Body and otherwise we would have to force people in the last days of 2017 to sit at work and help implement this system. That's why it would be hard to talk about the project itself. In fact, you can only complain about previous rulers. What else? I like the fact that this agreement was concluded between the developer of these local bases, i.e. the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers - I mean the Polish Security Printing Works - and the Central Information Technology Centre, which is responsible for this from the central base. The issue of dictionaries is an extremely important thing, as was said at the committee's meeting, because the words "Ford Mondeo" or "Renault Megane" can really introduce in millions of ways, and now it will be structured through dictionaries. Interestingly, this law not only shifts the deadline, but also causes workers in the Old Towns to have to use these dictionaries from January 2017. The fact that these two golden rules have been violated, which is the legislative part where the IT project is created... How it was created before, I will not speak. When created, we have a mess from the legislative side. When there is no information on what legislative plans other ministries have, it is difficult to build such a system. What else? In fact, I told you about the dictionary. In other words, at the Kukiz club15, in short, there will be a recommendation as much as possible to support this bill. In fact, good luck with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u489	On behalf of the Club, Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Poselski Club a modern position on the government draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws, included in print No. 997 and after the report of the committee - in print No. 1000. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law concerns the amendment of provisions in several areas. The most important of them is undoubtedly a change in the date of entry into force of the Act of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws as of 4 June 2018, which is related to the delay in the date of the launch of the modernised IT system Central Vehicle and Driver Registration, called CEPiK 2.0. The proposed law also provides for other substantive changes, including a change concerning the retention of a driving licence at speeds exceeding 50 km/h of permissible speed in the built-up area. This amendment will eliminate the legal gap allowing people who commit traffic violations to circumvent the rules on retention of a driving licence for 3 months by failing to present this document during the roadside inspection. Therefore, decisions to retain a driving licence for 3 months for driving at a speed exceeding 50 km/h the permissible speed in the built-up area will be issued on the basis of information about the infringement committed. Another amendment aims to eliminate the second legal gap, this time concerning the driving of an intoxicated person by an elderly person, in a state of alcohol consumption or alcohol-like agent, for an appropriate re-educational course. As a result of the adoption of the procedated novel, the governor will direct the person to the course on the basis of a copy of the judgment sent by the court. The draft law also provides for the introduction of an obligation for an entity which has disclosed the infringement or has issued a final decision for the infringement so that it shall immediately inform the governor responsible for the place of residence of the driver. These three changes concerning the elimination of gaps and the introduction of a new obligation for official entities in the wording presented seem justified and merit support in this formula. Finally, however, I want to return to the CEPiK 2.0 system - an endless tale and an example of how state resources can be badly spent on the computerization of the state. Of course, it seems that everyone is aware that how this system was designed, how the work on the system was done. wrongly carried out, can actually be used as an example in teaching. I am not talking about the last year, I am talking about the last few years when the concept came up, when the legislative changes were made in the High House and when someone started building this system. It is hard to imagine a greater waste of resources in our country just for the IT system than it is for the CEPiK 2.0 system. . Of course, I'm going to skip the technical details here, because they're important to specialists, and they're probably not going to tell you much, but I want to talk about a few things here. Well, first of all, I am very pleased that no one here in the High House today, although the rapporteur has just had such a test, does not indicate that it is the fault of not preparing this system, of not implementing this system on time, of old age, of WORDs, of training centres, etc. We have to be clear: in this matter, the offices have been blamed, the ministries responsible for the construction of this system. It's a few different departments, and I'm not going to replace them here. However, I will repeat this with all power: the central authorities are responsible for not implementing this system, and it has never been possible at any stage of the implementation of these systems to blame any old age or WORDs or other organisational units. That information, the accusations that came here and were distributed in the press, it was just a lie. Another thing I want to say. On December 9th, almost a year ago, from this speaker I spoke in the High House, also presenting the club's position on this matter that it is not enough a year to clean up this terrible mess, I apologize for the expression, it is not enough. Unfortunately, this worked out, although on April 13th, the Minister probably remembered, during the current questions, when we also asked this question as a modern club, everything still looked okay. I thought this was a legal collapse. Turns out it's like a collapse in both layers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] project, as well as management...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u491	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u492	...a project, but also in the programming layer. Of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u493	... Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will take the floor of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u494	...at this moment change the deadline for implementation... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u495	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u496	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today we are proceeding over a government bill amending the Act on vehicle managers and some other laws, seym prints No. 997 and 1000. In presenting my position on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will start by saying that in our opinion... We believe that it is good, Minister, that you have courageously approached this issue with your colleagues, analyzed the real opportunities and conditions, all of which are accompanied by the preparation of all procedures, rules, areas, synchronization of actions, so that the proposed date for the entry into force of this system, 4 June, can be realistic. It would certainly be possible to ask whether this could not be speeded up by two to three months, but after analysing what has already occurred in this field, we believe that this is a good term, all the more so because it will allow for the adoption and early entry into operation of an important element, such as the catalogue of brands and types of vehicles. It's gonna be like an introduction that's gonna make it work. The project assumes that the so-called "on June 2," will take place on June 2. production start-up of the system. This is the time... These are days that will not require additional action to secure good conditions for its introduction, i.e. peace, possibility of a good start, due to the layout of the calendar and holidays. Given that the proper functioning of the system will involve counties, 380 powiats, about 4 thousand. The station and about 7 thousand. training centers, this is an important moment, an important element. We will vote in favour of further proceding this project and consequently in favour of its adoption without undue delay. The proposed draft law also contains provisions on the possibility to initiate action against speed offences and the possibility for older workers to act in respect of drivers who violate the provisions on sobriety requirements when driving. We consider the project to be good and necessary. We'll support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u497	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on driving vehicles and certain other laws. The proposed law provides for a delay in the date of entry into force of the Road Traffic Law of 24 July 2015, which is due to a delay in the date of launch of the modernized IT system of the CEPiK. As the projectors point out, it is necessary that the system to be used by the crowds of Polish citizens should be able to function fully, without reservation and without delay, so support for this change does not require discussion. However, we must not overlook the fact that we have already dealt with the same regulation in this House last year. However, as it turned out, an additional year is not enough to make up for the backlog that the previous government committed in implementing such an important system. According to the new projections and the realistic timetable after the work has been ordered and the outstanding regulations are issued, the rational date for the launch of the scheme will be the beginning of June 2018. I hope that this deadline will be respected. In addition to the delay of the launch of the modernized IT system, the draft law also proposes a number of other changes, including. those that facilitate the subsequent migration of data into the new system and address existing legal shortcomings. One of the legal gaps that eliminates the regulations contained in the proposal is among others. a gap in the Penal Code, which allows persons who commit an infringement to drive a vehicle at a speed exceeding the permitted speed by more than 50 km/h in the built-up area of the driving licence retention regulations for 3 months by not presenting that document during the roadside inspection. Although the idea of clarifying the rules so that those guilty of certain infringements may not be able to care about their side roads, I think it is right, given in my opinion that the flaws of this provision, in which the application of which may lead to errors and errors which, in turn, may be the cause of the punishment of innocent persons, I also find clarification to be imperfect. However, I think it is right to introduce into the proposal a regulation allowing the elderly to direct drivers of vehicles in an intoxicated state, in a state after drinking alcohol or a substance similar to alcohol to an appropriate re-educational course. Despite the obligation of the seniors to comply with this obligation, the provisions of the Act on driving vehicles of 5 January 2011 have been hindered by the existing legal deficiencies in its implementation so far. The Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle, taking into account the doubts raised, supports the further proceeding of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u499	Thank you very much. Five ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform, asks the question first.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u500	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister about the financial implications of the introduction of the CEPiK 2.0 system. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read that they were provided for in the Act of July 2015 on Road Traffic Law. We read further that the possible financial implications for the state budget and the budgets of local government units related to the adoption of this draft law may be linked to a change in the timetable for launching the above mentioned. the IT project, but they should be in effect foreseen for the implementation of the project as a whole. I would like the Minister to confirm that this will happen, because there are doubts here. The system will be implemented in 2 financial years, in 2017 and 2018, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we'd like to make sure that there's money for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u501	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister: What have you done to speed up the implementation of the CEPiK system? We all know that this system must be accurate and detailed so that it can become a helpful tool, not a tool that hinders the work of police offices or police. Will the Minister give a guarantee that the CEPiK will be launched at the next indicated date, which is June 2018? One more technical issue. Will the old age have increased resources to carry out the tasks mentioned above? This includes, for example, the employment of additional officials, the cost of correspondence, etc. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u503	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We waited a long time for CEPiK 2.0, but I think that our debates, our discussions, showed that the drivers would wait - we want this system to be good, so it would be large. It is synchronous, but it is important that it is flexible enough to accommodate further services in the future. After all, we do not know that in a year's time, in two or three years' time, successive ministries will not introduce further very important and necessary services for us. Hence the question: Does the CEPiK 2.0 is so flexible and spacious that in the future there will be no need to build the CEPiK 3.0? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u505	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wozniak, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As we all stress, the CEPiK 2.0 system is very important, it is expected. The deadline for its implementation shall be postponed. I have a question for the Minister. There was talk of an audit that the Ministry did because there were questions about what the Ministry did in the meantime. And I'd like to ask what hasn't been done before when we passed the CepiK 2.0 law. . What did the audit show? What were the most important omissions, and why do we have these delays today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u507	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u508	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you questions about three things. The first issue is a trial period - for road safety reasons. Unfortunately, this law also shifts the date of entry into force of this obligation, this trial period. This could result in a deterioration in road safety, and it certainly won't improve if we remove it. Therefore, have you considered implementing this within 1 January? If not, why not? Second thing. I wanted to ask about the Polish Securities Printing Works, which, as we know, instead of dealing with substantive issues, deals with historical politics and ordering Holy Masses. In addition, I believe that all the relevant employees responsible for these systems have been fired so far. Would that not be an obstacle to timely implementation of the system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the third thing I want to ask you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u509	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Piotr Woźny will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u510	What has happened to people who have managed the CEPiK 2.0 project so far ? Didn't they just... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...somewhere in the area of state institutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u511	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to thank you very much, both the rapporteur and the representatives of the various clubs, for their positions on this draft law, for their understanding of this issue that we have dealt with and for their support, so unanimous, for the idea of moving this deadline. There are a few questions that have been asked. Maybe I should start with Mr Arndt's question. Financial implications. As regards the financial consequences, we have the situation that this project was originally initiated by an agreement which entered into force in September 2013 and was to be in force until the end of 2016. This is an agreement that was supposed to be in force for 40 months and provided for payments of PLN 2.5 million per month, i.e. PLN 100 million for IT services during the period of the project plus several tens of millions for infrastructure related to the implementation of this system. Now we're dealing with a situation where the contractor of this system, the Central Computer Science Center... These are the things we've been working on this year, and that's what we've been focusing on in this area, I'd say, audit. We have documented faulty implementation of this contract. As in civil law contracts, if the contractor failed to carry out the subject-matter of the order, it must bear the financial consequences of having failed to comply with it. It so happens that the Central Information Technology Centre has the financial resources developed in connection with the implementation of previous IT projects. At the moment, the Central Information Technology Centre will have to set up a financial reserve for the performance of this contract at the end of this year in the years to come in order to postpone the entry into force of this system. Thus, bearing the burden, a significant part of the financial burden associated with the implementation of this project will be at the expense of the profit generated by the Central Information Technology Centre in previous financial years. That's one thing. The second case concerns one of the things we've been focusing on over the last year. It was a question of building a very detailed timetable for the implementation of this project, because it is, as I said, an inter-ministerial project. There are five or six intergovernmental stakeholders involved. Imagine the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, which coordinates the activities, I do not know, the police or even civil services, which also coordinate their activities and which also have interfaces to this system. Information systems of individual state institutions that will download information from the CEPiK 2.0 system must be integrated into the CEPiK 2.0 system . This means that we really need to ensure coordination at the level of all the information systems that will connect to this system. So what we've been doing this year is also making such a meticulous, detailed schedule. That wasn't the document. There was, I'd say, a general schedule and an idea of how to do it. In IT projects, as you know, further steps of the procedure need to be written into retail lines. This detailed timetable, which we have agreed, allowed us to consider that there are still some work to be done under this project, which were not included in the original agreement. At the moment we sign, finish work on the annex, wait for this law to enter into force and finish work on the annex to the agreement between the Ministry of Digital Affairs and the Central Information Technology Centre, in which we define how much of the work related to the implementation of this system will be done from the profit generated by COI in previous financial years, and how much of it are works that, for example. have not been provided for or have not been regulated in the scope of this agreement and have yet to be defined in order to be contracted at the Central Information Technology Centre. So much for the financial consequences of what's happening right now. I'm answering the question of what we did to make this project work. It's a little bit like that, I don't know if any of you have had such experience, inheriting an unbuilt house on an inherited plot, for example. After my parents. It's much better to inherit an empty plot and put a house on it from scratch than get a house built to the first floor, try to deal with the continuation of this investment, and then decide that you have to undress it and build everything from the beginning. I would like to say that what we received in inheritance from our predecessors, this is the house built to the first floor, pieces and without, so to speak, a detailed technical design of the building of this house.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u513	Minister, it's an hour. 11:30, please. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Piotr Woźny: We have structured the work, ensured coordination of all stakeholders involved. We arranged it in such a way that we have it written down for the retail activities that need to be done. We have divided this project into different phases. The previous idea regarding the implementation of this project assumed that this project was to enter at one moment, to work, to allow all services, all government stakeholders, at the same time, to benefit from this system. We split it into phases, individual stakeholders will enter at different moments. We've stabilized the situation in this project. As of today, I am convinced that the date of 4 June 2018, which was designed in cooperation with the communities of district governments, that the timetable for the implementation, the division of this into individual phases, as well as such, and not another date of implementation, are the factors that give a chance for success, for the success of this project, for the fact that this is already the last delay of the deadline for its implementation. The question is whether new services can be implemented in this system. Yes, it will be a modern IT system, which is built to ensure that practically all information relevant to drivers and vehicles is incorporated into this system, everything that the state collects, all the knowledge that the state collects about vehicles and about drivers. That's why this system is so big and so complicated, because in its final, target shape it will even contain information about unpaid parking cards. This is a system that collects, first of all, a whole lot of information, it is true, but this information will be collected so that it is possible to carry out various types of e-services on the basis of it, as well as so that the state can thus know much more precisely what is going on Polish roads, what is the competence of individual drivers, what is the issue of medical examination of these drivers, etc. So that after the implementation of this system, I think that a whole bunch of state institutions, for which knowledge about vehicles and drivers is important, will benefit from the solutions contained in this system. It's an audit issue. I would not like to discuss this audit in detail at the moment. I think that tomorrow we will put up, we will publish on our website such 60-page material, an overview of individual parts concerning the implementation of this project and individual aspects such as how the scope of this project is defined, a way of providing the IT staff necessary to implement this project, a way of managing programmers' work, a way of controlling the quality of programmers' work. I think that anyone who is interested in this subject, after reading this 60-page material, will know why this project did not have any chance to work within the deadline and what had to be done for a year to put it on such tracks that would guarantee its implementation. I answer Mr Suchon's questions about the issue of the trial period. We are at the moment, this amendment of ours is, I would say, a technical amendment related to the shifting of the date of entry into force of the system. The thing that was extremely important to us is the introduction of dictionaries, because we do not want these data that are in the system to be soiled, this is what the Member here told us, the example from Renault Mégane and Ford Mondeo, there is nothing to say. Since 1 January 2017, we have finally stopped soiling data in the CEPiK database. On the other hand, these issues of the trial period are, I would say, the substantive issues that lie more in the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. We are agreed with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction that, when the date of entry into force of this system has been postponed, we sit down for a substantive discussion about what is in these laws, what in this whole system of laws, whose date of entry into force is postponed until 4 June, can be improved and what can be implemented even earlier. So that we will certainly discuss the issue of the trial period with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. As regards cooperation with the Polish Security Printing Works, the Central Information Technology Centre implements the central base in this project, and the Polish Security Printing Works implements local bases - those on which the employees of the Old Towns work. I can say that for six months, when IT specialists from COI have been working intensively with IT specialists working for PWPW, because PWPW is serviced in this area by Hewlett Packard, I do not see any problems in cooperation. Every week there are sprints on which both sides meet. Test procedures are underway, information is exchanged on the programming amendments that are necessary. The bug registry corrections are pulled out, implemented, repaired, I have no reason to complain. Since April 20th, that is, from the moment we led to the signing of the agreement between the creator of the local base and the central base, I have a sense of full cooperation from the contractor of the local base and I do not see any problems in this case. The question was... Oh, one more question that came up here about what with the extra money for the old age when it comes to the implementation of this system. It is so that the thing that was not planned during this implementation of the system is the issue of cooperation with local communities and with those people who work on these systems. And this is an extremely important issue. You cannot implement any system if you do not talk to its users and you do not guarantee them the comfort of using these solutions. IT systems aren't supposed to be a tool for user repression, they're supposed to be something that helps them in their daily work. In the new approach to CEPiK 2.0 So we anticipate the entire training component, we talk to the community of district governments. Next week, together with Minister Streżyńska and Minister Adamczyk, we have a meeting with the Board of the Polish Districts Association, where 40 starosts will be represented. We will work with this environment in such a way that those people who operate on these systems know exactly what this system will look like and what it is to be reckoned with. After the entry into force of this system, we assume that the costs of handling old age in this area and the costs allocated to this should fall, because we do not assume that the implementation of the IT system will increase the costs associated with the registration of vehicle and driver cases. That's all the questions I've written down. Thank you. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Assembly (print No 1044). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a bill. [[Maybe he found this assembly illegal and didn't come.]] You're an MP. You're welcome. Mr President, I hope we can count off the time we had to wait for you. [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u514	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Print nr 1044, draft amendment of the Act amending the Law on Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that the project is aimed at extending, increasing civil liberties, which are of great value in Poland. We assume that every social group, party or other organization has the right to freedom, and here I wanted to emphasize the right to freedom - because this is the essence, the clou of this project - to manifest their beliefs in public space. And there are criticisms of this project, with which we cannot agree that the situation in which one manifestation can be blocked by the other is normal. Ladies and gentlemen, if the competent authorities of the State register this manifestation as a legal manifestation, as the applicant of this draft amendment, we believe that such manifestation is entitled to take place. And it cannot be blocked, destroyed, driven on the principle of counter-managing of the second social group. This is so that each group can freely manifest its beliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, we introduce, we propose the introduction of a type of manifestation known as cyclical. Such manifestations, which take place several times a year, for several years in a row - here is the proposal: at least 3 years in a row - we will consider them cyclical manifestations. [[Can you give me an example?]] For example, the Independence March is several years in a row. [[Several times a year, you said.]] No, but listen...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u515	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u516	In the amendment by the term "cyclical" we mean... [[This May 3rd is also cyclical.]] ...manifestations that take place four times a year or more or for several years in a row - once a year, but several years in a row, three years in a row, Mr. Several such manifestations we have in Poland and it is not true that they are e.g. concern only one political group or only one social group. In such situations, ladies and gentlemen, we propose that this manifestation, which is a cyclical manifestation, should take precedence, but here I would like to make it very clear: the counter-manipulation will also be possible, only 100 m away. Here is the situation that, at the same time as cyclical manifestations, for example, the Independence March was reported - we had such cases, for example. just on the route of the Independence March - one or several countermandations. And now we are bringing, thanks to the regulations in force in Poland, a situation in which the police already have to distribute two manifestations on the street, and there is no need to do so, especially because this is also about the safety of people who manifest. I would like to stress once again very clearly: in this draft amendment of the law there are no provisions or ideas in any place concerning the limitation of the freedom of citizens to manifest their beliefs, on the contrary - in my opinion, this is a project which will allow for the free manifestation of beliefs in the public space of each group who wishes to make such a manifestation. We give priority to cyclical manifestations, but this does not mean that counter-manufacturing against this cyclical manifestation will not be possible. It will be possible, but a little further away, so that there will be no street decision, who has more power here, who will be more effective, ladies and gentlemen, pushing through. And it's like a cloud of this revision. Of course, as far as cyclical manifestations are concerned, we propose that the voivode make this decision to record such a cyclical manifestation, and therefore the municipality deletes the second manifestation, the counter-manification of this cyclical one, reported at the same place and at the same time. I am very clear about these two terms: in the same place and at the same time. And only then will such a manifestation be possible - 100 m further, at least 100 m further or in another simply place. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Dr. Hab. Paweł Sobczyk, a professor of constitutional law, presented his opinion to the Sejm through the Office of Sejm Analysis. The professor points out very clearly, let me quote: "The proposal of the applicant must be considered rational and practical, since it is part of the concept of rationalisation of procedures in public administration. From a legal point of view, it raises no objections, especially as regards compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And one more thing the professor pointed out - also in terms of entrusting the voivodship with competence, Professor Sobczyk sees nothing wrong and points out that such a solution already applies in Polish law, e.g. in the case of demonstrations at the extermination camps or memorial sites of this type. These are not new solutions, but solutions that already exist in our law. I ask the High Sejm to support this draft amendment. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u517	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jerzy Polaczek on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u518	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position towards the parliamentary draft amendment to the Law on Assembly, which was included in print No. 1044. First of all, I would like to recommend to the High House a sound, substantive, calm argument as to the substance of these changes, this revision of the law. I would like to point out that there have been opinions in public space in some comments, which are diplomatically speaking unfair to this project, but maybe I will refer to this in a few moments. I would like to remind you first of all that the constitutional inalienable right of citizens to freedom of assembly is above all positive. This is a positive freedom, that is the right to attend the assemblies, the right to participate, the right to direct the assembly, the right to gather together, and the right not to participate in such an assembly, and the basic principle that applies to the Assembly Act, that is, the principle that no one can be forced to participate in the assembly. And in spite of the doubts that are... [[Graceful.]] ... raised in some media, I would like to stress that this law, the parliamentary initiative to amend the Assembly Act by adding in the draft legislation on cyclical gatherings, is a complement to the catalogue of these gatherings, not a narrowing of this scope, which is regulated in the current law, in a single text. Here Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, on behalf of the applicants, presented a fragment of the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. I would also like to stress and reiterate this once again, quoting this passage: the proposal of the applicant should be considered rational and reasonable, since it is practically part of the concept of rationalisation of public administration procedures and, from a legal point of view, does not raise any objections, especially as regards compliance with the Article. 57th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. End of quote. In addition to the Act of Chapter 3a: The procedure for gatherings organised on a cyclical basis shows that the competent voivode is the competent authority to issue those decisions in relation to the approval of cyclical assembly arrangements. There was also a reference to one of the examples of the law cited by the applicant's representative. I just want to add that the applicant of such a cyclical gathering, which is a supplement to the catalogue which is included in the draft law, must necessarily justify that the assembly is aimed in particular at celebrating important and relevant events in the history of the Republic of Poland, and entrusting the voivodeship with the competence to agree to the cyclical organisation of the meetings, as I said, is a situation known in Polish legislation contained in other legal acts. If I should be tempted to make some final remarks here, I would first of all like to stress very clearly on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice that this regulation contained in this proposal ensures freedom of assembly, which is included in the article. 57 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is given the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assembly, and a restriction of that freedom may be laid down by law. Secondly, what I have pointed out is that the positive nature of these assemblies, the positive character in the sense that it is a law, is the prohibition of forced participation in the assemblies. [[Don't be ridiculous.]] Freedom also entails the obligation of public authority to provide protection [[♪ The bell ♪]] persons organising and participating in demonstrations. [[We should thank you for not having to demonstrate in the month.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u519	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u520	And first of all, I encourage...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u521	Mrs Dorota Rutkowska...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u522	...a parliamentary opposition to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u523	...from the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u524	...very, so to speak, a substantive assessment and...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u525	Mr. President, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u526	...you can say reformistly... [[Mr President, you can say anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u527	...for his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u528	...more peace in the comments to this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u529	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u530	Mr. Marshal, 20 s more for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u531	No. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u532	By 20 s, the Member has exceeded his time. [[Because you interfered with the speech. That's why.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u533	No, we're just counting the time right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u534	Good. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As always at night and as always using the parliamentary project, without the need for consultation, the PiS government is taking away a piece of freedom from us. This project is the end of assemblies, demonstrations, protests of free people. I have the impression that Mr Czartoryski and Mr Polaczek live in a different reality. The part of the opinion that you so eagerly referred to does not refer to the whole project, but to the concept of cyclical gathering. Ladies and gentlemen! Poles! Let us remember that we were free and legally able to go out into the streets, express our views, our discontent, but also our joy. The PiS is taking it away from us. [[Applause]] The House of Members of the Law and Justice! That's the law you're taking away from each other as well. We remember perfectly well how you fought for them recently. You have moved all the institutions to create a law in the form that is now in force. It's not like President Duda signed a revised convention law as one of the first laws. What you're proposing now, will he sign it too? [[Tomorrow.]] What will Sasin today say to the Helsinki Foundation, with whom he fought side by side for freedom of assembly? Where's your democratic package? What do the Members of the solidarity opposition say about this? You signed off on a project from the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Remember, the stick has two ends and you never know when it's gonna hit you. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform requests that the draft amendment to the Law on Assembly be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u535	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u536	The idea that got caught up in the heads of PiS activists is primarily inconsistent with the constitution and incompatible with the principles of decent legislation. We have no delusions that you will still want to push it through, because for you the constitution, the Constitutional Tribunal, the independent courts no longer exist. We will fight for human rights further, both before our Polish tribunal and in Strasbourg. Now from this place I call for a recollection in the Polish Parliament. According to art. The 57th Constitution shall be free to organise and participate in peaceful assembly. Members of the Law and Justice want to limit our freedom. Their project gives priority to organizing public power assemblies for churches and religious unions. Let us be clear: in practice, such a provision marks the end of free civic assemblies. The government, with priority, will always be able to organize its rally, which will make it impossible to organize an uncomfortable protest against its citizens. Or maybe that's what Mr Kaczyński wants, so that black protests no longer disturb the peace of Novgorod. At present, we can organise assemblies reported in a strictly defined manner providing for review procedures and spontaneous gatherings as a public response to current events. Soon we will have a new category: cyclical assembly. Their registration will not be decided by the local government, but by the voivode, a representative of the government in the field. What does that mean? Every annual patriotic and state holiday for 3 years in advance is already reserved for the exclusive grace of public authority and the Church. By all means, cyclical assemblies will be Smolensk monthlys, which will not be disturbed unless at a distance of 100 m. [[Why disturb them?]] I don't know who wrote this bill, but with correct Polish and legal language, it's on the bakier. By building us such bubbles, you introduce the quality into Polish legislation. In addition, this product has nothing to do with the principle of decent legislation. In accordance with the Act on the Publication of Normative Acts, acts containing universal provisions shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. Your project does not predict vacathio legis. This is the conscious bending of the law by the Sejm, or actually by its right side. So much so you want the bill to start working before 10 December, so that the morning procession can pass without interference to the President's Palace and arrange the cross with the Shining Land there freely and that President Kaczyński, speaking from the level of his ladder, doesn't have a banner in front of his eyes, the content of which annoys him? Or is there a decision to stop the strike on December 13th? Is this the important interest of the state that requires the immediate entry into force of the law? What happens if the Poles go out on the streets illegally after all? Are you going to arrest us? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you guys get the Warsaw stuff ready? Troops...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u537	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 you will speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u538	...territorials are here. Once again on behalf of the Civic Platform Club... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... I call for a recollection. Don't step on the dignity of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u539	...Jerzy Jachnik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, I expected to cry because it's always so that the opposition is crying - for four years on the one hand, for four years on the other. But let's start with history. Do you remember when the Public Assembly Act came into force? It has been in force for many years since 1990, and no one has touched it. Who touched it first? The Platform was touched, namely Mr Bronisław Komorowski, President of the Republic of Poland, when the Independence March began to be dangerous for him. When the police were sent to protest, [[Applause]] When the movement was provoked, the bill was changed. It matters, and I'll tell you why. Because for the first time this bill, I have a uniform text in force until now, got... [[They were throwing stones, sir.]] Most of these are consequences, what should be done: IDs, stamps, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen... [[Have you seen the burned-out police cars?]] ...for the first time in the manifestation, do you know when you were? When the CODE came up, that's when, and that's how you know this case right now. But I'll tell you one thing... [[What are you saying?]] ...and in this one matter I agree with you: this is another law which is legislatively poorly prepared, just as the Constitutional Court Act, like this law... [[Terribly prepared.]] ...about the NGO. No, it's the fault. We all agree to do this on the committees. [[It's not written right, but you'll support it.]] Did anybody teach you culture?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u541	Mr President, you are interfering with the conduct of...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u542	Maybe a sedative. Would you like a sedative?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u543	You're interrupting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u544	I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you. Calm down, sir. [[Why, are you gonna beat me? I'm very calm.]] I'll tell you what. There is indeed a problem as to how you analyze recent accidents properly, because that is how you make laws - under specific accidents, not according to logic. And that's why the laws are as sick as they are sick. There's a problem, actually, with large, multi-thousand manifestions, when one manifestation is around the other manifestation. 'Cause I'll tell you what. I've been on hundreds of small manifestations: 200, 300, 400 people. 30 people, you know, the police were 10 times more then, for this so-called. Your freedom. Just so you don't say things like that. However, there is a danger, and here in a sense I would agree, but I would clearly limit it. In this sense, I do not like this bill, that with manifestations, especially large ones, there should be a distinction in order to remain safe, because it is sometimes difficult to control the crowd. That's a fact. So that we will not support this law, and for simple reasons we will not support it - because it has defective legislation like most laws in this Seym. And it's not just in this Seym, it's in previous terms. And we're either gonna learn... In order to change this at all, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a good thing to start a change from the electoral system, so that random people get into this room, here to the Sejm, do not get and that the law is created in a healthy way. [[Bravo!]] But it's not gonna get to you because you're all doing great here. [[Applause]] [[Tell me who you're talking to.]] All of you, all of you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u545	Thank you very much. [[You too, because you're about to cry. Thank you.]] Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus will now speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Each shall be given the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assemblies. A restriction of that freedom may be laid down by law - it is Article. 57th Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So far I thought that when we talked about statutory restrictions, we were talking about, for example. marches that are full of violence or Nazi marches. What does it turn out to be? That a few Members of the Law and Justice, who are not here today, want to limit the assembly of opponents of the Smolensk monthlys, because in fact this law only applies to the Smolensk monthlys. You propose, among other things, that the municipal authority issue a decision to ban the assembly if it is to be in place and at the time when another cyclical meeting takes place, read: the Smolensk monthly. I have a question. What's with the ceremony, ladies and gentlemen? You have a majority, you have a president, you can vote it all out, so perhaps it would be best if you immediately voted out all the bans on any manifestation - and anti-government and anti-Presidential. I don't know why you want to play such subtleties and why we have to write down that public authorities, churches and religious unions have priority in organizing the assembly, and that countermandations cannot be organised. [[You may be misleading the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, if the Pole wants to go out on the street, he'll come out. If you have to express your opposition, the Pole will even establish a religious relationship, and if you have to develop this cyclicality, people will invent e.g. the day of the balcony and they will also gather 10 each month. [[Very good.]] Do you really doubt the ingenuity of our people? Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, our lives hate the vacuum, and the stupider the proposition of the rulers, the more ingenious it is to circumvent it. I think today Stanisław Bareja is Jarosław Kaczyński... [[Voice from the hall: This is a compliment.]] ...the only problem is that you're not actors at all, you're extras. I get the feeling you guys were cast during the election campaign. I will only remind you gentlemen, who I do not see here, that Stanisław Bareja was famous for mocking communist reality, and you do not ridicule it, you believe it, except it is not this funny and funny movie, but it is a pathetic movie. [[Applause]] [[Say something about yourself.]] There is one more thing that can be read out of these amendments that I would like to draw attention to. You're afraid you're gonna lose the election. Hence, the idea that the voivodship could give consent to public assemblies for three years ahead. Let me explain this in a brief example. The first such consent could be given by the Mazowieckie Voivode right after the entry into force of these amendments, because there is no vacathio legis, and the second right before the elections in 2019. For the next three years. Why? For example, that another voivode, which, for example, He could be from Modern, he could ban what you want to do. My question is, is it worth being, ladies and gentlemen, an extra in such a lousy movie? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u547	On behalf of... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, there's still some time left. You're welcome. Your performances are very exciting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u548	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Oh... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: One minute.]] The project's applicants considered that the right to hold meetings should be restricted to citizens. In fact, this entire bill is such a return to the Polish People's Republic. Why am I talking about the PRL? Well, in preparation for this debate, I reached the 1990's, specifically until the day when the first Law of Assembly was adopted. I have to say, I've had the pleasure of dealing with the essence of the totalitarian system demolition. I would like to quote you, unfortunately, the late Mr Zimowski, who was then the rapporteur of the committee. In the textbooks of constitutional law - I quote - democracy is mentioned in the slogan: free elections, freedom of expression, religion, association and assembly. We are therefore breaking the rule in our law that the possibility of convening a meeting is decided by an administrative body, and civil liberties, despite verbal slogans in the Constitution, are practically governed by individual administrative decisions. This was the solution that the opposition fought for in the 1970s and 1980s. Another general problem - I quote further - which I wanted to present to you in a telegraph summary. There are no legal institutions to prevent the assembly from being turned into a fight. That's what's to be reckoned with. Any attempt to find such a guarantee actually undermines the freedom of assembly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we cared so much about.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u549	Thank you very much. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u550	Ladies and gentlemen, the Modern Posel Club in life will not support a law that undermines freedom and civil rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u551	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u552	Therefore, Mr. Marshal, we are filing a motion to reject this bill at first reading. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u553	Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u554	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Today we are proceeding on a thoughtful but dangerous idea, one can say, a project, how to own Poland. Everything's been planned and set up. In order to free the government from the need for consultation, it is done with the help of a group of Members, making it seem as if the public expects it to be done by voters. Which ones? Ours, of course, but that remains nameless. So far the Polish legal order has been developed and accepted is trying to break in the name of a particular group, which is to cause electorate and cover the real problems of society. High Seym! Many times from this stand I declared, repeated and reminded: Polish People's Party is not and will not be a destructive, total and thoughtless opposition. Unfortunately, this does not mean, however, that in an unreasonable way we will support and accept all submitted projects and ideas, not only alien but even harmful to us. The struggle for freedom, equality and democracy in our country was long and toiling. The Law of 24 July 2015 passed by the Sejm. The Law of Assembly meets the protection of public order and order, as well as social expectations. This law was very well adopted by the public. Therefore, today we must not allow for the differentiation of groups of citizens regardless of what this objective is based on. The territory of the Republic of Poland shall be one and indivisible. Creating a privileged situation for any group of citizens would be a dangerous breach in the Polish legal order. This is the kind of temptation our consent is not and will not be. From the content of the project and the justification, it can be clearly stated that it is about favoring one of the political groups and giving them primacy. In fact, these innocent-sounding provisions in the bill are meant for many years to guarantee greater rights for one political group and to make public authorities even more ideological. There are known cases in the history of our homeland, where the right to own the state and secure a privileged position has been usurped, which has always ended in tragedy for the nation. There can't be a repeat of the disdainful history and past. The Polish People's Party will not lay hands on solutions that cause social unrest and conflicts. Given all this, my parliamentary club is in favour of rejecting the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u555	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the matter of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Assembly. This amendment introduces the so-called. cyclically organized meetings, i.e. events organized several times a year by the same organizer at the same place and time or once a year in order to commemorate especially important historical events for Poland. The solutions introduced will allow the organisers of such conventions to ask the voivodship for permission to organise them in the next 3 years. The project also provides for e.g. banning other events at the place and time of the organisation of cyclical events. Although for the total opposition and part of the media the parliamentary proposal is an attempt to take over another piece of freedom of Poles, it is worth considering this further. The purpose of the regulations introduced is to organize the convention rules and to facilitate the organisation of conventions that often take place annually to commemorate our history. We have seen many times when on the occasion of Poland's regaining independence, people with extremely different views of marches were organized in Warsaw and their routes were too close to each other. Although the situation has not repeated this year, this does not mean that it is not worth regulating the relevant legislation. It is worth introducing rules that guarantee the safety of Poles who want to express their beliefs in a demonstration manner. In addition, the provisions of this amendment provide for gatherings organised by public authorities and assemblies held within the framework of the activities of the Churches and other religious associations to be given priority before other assemblies. Although these records raise our concerns, the Free and Solidarni Circle supports further proceding of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u557	Thank you. Now Mr Stanisław Huskowski, club, excuse me, near European Democrats. You are rarely present, which is why this oversight has certainly taken place.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u558	Mr. Marshal, don't apologize for the club...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u559	Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u560	...I understand that this is a vision of your marshal when it comes to the development of our circle. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Civil rights are a pillar of democracy. The right to gather in order to manifest its views is a fundamental right for citizens. Only in the totalitarian system is the state receiving or restricting such a right. During the times of the Polish People's Republic there were only proper annual celebrations of the first and unjust street protests of dissidents, i.e. the insubordinate people. God forbid that the righteous first - year march should try to disrupt some troublemakers! Almost a year ago, the Sejm adopted a draft of Ewa Kopacz's government amending the convention bill. New categories of assembly were introduced at the time: spontaneous and simplified. We have also implemented a system of judicial control over decisions of the municipal administration. Even the opposition PiS was positive about these changes at the time. However, in the vote he did not support this law, because in the opinion of PiS representative Sasin at the time - it is a pity that he is not in the Chamber today - for the PiS club it was unacceptable, among other things. a record of how to solve the problem of crucifixing gatherings. The law put this problem into the hands of the municipal negotiator, and in the fiasco of his efforts, the organizer of the previously notified assembly had the right to the planned tour. During the debate - it was 22 July Ub. r. - Mr Jacek Sasin was thundering, and I quote: This means that these assemblies cannot be held in one place... This is the solution proposed by our law at the time. Again: This means that these conventions cannot be held in one place and time. In our view, according to the Law and Justice Club, this is, however, an excessive interference with the constitutional right to assembly, and it should be on the authorities of the state, that public policy bodies should be obliged to ensure freedom of expression in this case - the end of the quote. In this situation, how could Mr Sasin, but also his colleagues from the PiS, the whole of the PiS, sign the current project, which is going exactly the opposite way? Not only does it establish a category of gatherings that are just right, taking precedence over others, but it establishes, by the way, such a sanitary belt, a width of at least 200 m, in which no other gatherings may take place. Not only will there be crossroads, but even the possibility of counter-managing nearby. That's exactly what's going on in your project, 100 meters from this one, 100 meters from this one. There's a walk, 100 m from this one and 100 m from this one can't be... So there's no question of crossings at all, but there's also a counter-manufacturing in the area. And this is... [[There's no street battle, that's it.]] Aren't you ashamed of that, Mr PiS? No shame? You deny yourselves exactly, your previous arguments exactly. Is politics just juggling, in your opinion, a lust for power and cynicism? Because it's cynicism. [[It's worth listening to the arguments.]] This bill is anti-Citizen, anti-democratic and brings us closer to the times of the Polish People's Republic, as I mentioned in the first sentences. He's clearly restricting constitutional freedoms. Is it really worth doing such a wicked act to highlight the importance of the monthly celebrations of Smolensk, or perhaps for the vision of the President's journey through Warsaw, a chariot among the cheering crowds on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence? Is that why it is worth destroying democracy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u561	14 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting time for a question for one minute. First... [[1.5, Mr. Marshal, this is an important subject.]] One minute. As... [[You've got 14 people, don't exaggerate. Don't shut people's mouth.]] Look what time it is, and don't interfere with the proceedings. You regularly interfere with the proceedings. [[Mr. Marshal, we didn't set the agenda for the hour. 12. Please give us time to debate.]] Mr President, I would like to call you back to order. [[Don't shut your mouth...]] Mr President, please do not interfere with the proceedings. [[Just give us a normal time to debate, not...]] Mr Grzegorz Furgo is the first to ask a question. You're welcome. [[We have time, we have time. What's this?]] Mr President, you will be punished for interfering with the proceedings. [[I'm defending, sir, freedom... I'm defending...]] No, you're not defending anything, you're making a fuss. There you go. [[14 people.]] If you're not able to control yourself, go out to the clowns. [[I'll be in the courtroom, sir, because I have the right, people chose me.]] Yes, but you have no right to interfere with the proceedings. [[And you have no right to restrict our right to debate. Scandal.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u562	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the hour is ill and the time is short, Marshal, it is true. It is, of course, a lie that you are so concerned about the security of the protesters that these assemblies must take place 100 m apart. You're taking the local government's next decisions. And let me remind you that freedom of assembly is a fundamental way of involving individuals in public life and a necessary condition for democracy. The PiS project should never be adopted for one reason - it violates the Constitution and the Convention. The draft introduces, ladies and gentlemen, Article. Article 26b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1, in which the time is regulated, in which the voivode must consent to the organisation of a cyclical assembly - no later than 5 days before the first edition of the event. Applicants must submit an application no later than 7 days before the planned event. If we assume that the entity requesting such consent will keep [[♪ The bell ♪]] The deadline...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u563	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u564	...the warlord will only have two days to give his consent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u565	The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u566	There's no way this is gonna work. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u567	You don't have an MP? Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u568	Disgraceful, Mr. Marshal. You do two things: you introduce a voivode instead of a self-government, because it is your voivode and at any time it will be able to ban a demonstration and order it, and the second thing you do is introduce the so-called. cyclical demonstrations, just to favor the Smolensk monthly, because I have another cyclical demonstration in Poland, let me, I do not know. [[The Independence March.]] You want to sanction Smolensk monthlys all over Poland. And if some government doesn't agree, it'll be forced by a voivode and will do the mandatory celebration of the Smolensk monthly over his head. The truth is, you're probably gonna be in charge for three years and you're scared -- you're scared of CODE, you're scared of women, you're afraid of teachers and all the other environments... [[We're not afraid of anyone. You're wrong.]] ...who spontaneously would like to demonstrate against you. You're trying to stop them from doing this. And you, Mr. Marshal, in your résumé you say, Mr. Marshal Terlecki, that in the '60s and '70s. You were detained during illegal demonstrations. You've come a long way, Marshal. And there's no reason to laugh. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u569	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u570	That's what you have to cry about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u571	The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u572	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Czartoryski, rapporteur, said that the bill aims to increase civil liberties. Mr President, I understand that it is late, I understand that the PiS may think that a lie after hours. 23 doesn't count, but I'm warning you, and I'm warning you from the PIS, a lie after hours. 23 will be double-counted, because this bill is being dealt with at this hour so that citizens cannot know the truth about your intentions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the bill aims to make life easier for the organisers of the months and the March of Independence. Why - and this is a question for the rapporteur - are you not simply writing about it? Why don't you write about being afraid of demonstrating those who are dissatisfied with your governments? Why don't you write straight that this bill is being passed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] At night...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u573	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u574	...so that citizens can't see these lies...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u575	The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u576	...and the bullshit you're telling? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u577	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the bill amending the Law on Assembly I would like to ask whether the decisions of the voivods concerning cyclical meetings will invalidate the previous decisions of the local authorities concerning other assemblies. Will the commune authority have to prohibit the previously notified assembly if it turns out that the voivode allowed the organisation of the cyclical assembly at this point and at the same time? And what if some of the co-organizers will want to organize a meeting at the same time and in the same place? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u579	Thank you. The question is asked by Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform. He's not in the O.R. Mrs Zofia Czernow, also the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law amending the Assembly Law concerns very important issues: the constitutional rights of citizens to assemblies. It therefore requires extensive public consultation. This is an important constitutional right, and it cannot be restricted to society without agreement with citizens. Meanwhile, it is a parliamentary project, followed by a fast path, without any consultation. The project significantly limits the right to assembly. I have a question for the applicants: Is this project in line with the Constitution? I'm afraid not. And the question to the government: What is the government's position on this matter? This is a very important social and sensitive matter. Is there such a position? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u581	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u582	I have a question, too. I was prepared to ask. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand on this speaker and wipe my eyes. Do you not understand that this is about ensuring safety on cyclical marches that take place in Poland: on the Independence March, on the monthly? This isn't about seeing some Dantesque scenes on the streets like in the past, where we saw provocations. The point is to keep the people who come to these pickets, the gatherings safe. That's what this bill is about. [[Where's the word on it?]] And you're talking about making life easier, attacking the monthbook. Turn it around. It doesn't occur to me to block your marches, but you don't experience it. The point is to secure your marches in the future as well. [[He won't let us.]] Maybe you're just having marches. [[The youth of all Poland will secure our marches.]] I have a question: Is there a mechanism that will secure the future authorities? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] before... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u583	Thank you very much, sir. [[Your way of doing this is annoying.]] Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u584	I'm gonna write a question in writing because I was disturbed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u585	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The cyclical gatherings are some Polish ephemeride, it does not function in the world at all. [[Voice from the room: PiS-owska.]] PiS-owska, it could be PiS-owska. I have a question: Why do you introduce a law that is unconstitutional and which is contrary to the European Charter of Human Rights, in which there is the right to countermanipulation? Why are you doing this? One more thing. Rights and freedoms, including freedom of assembly, are held by the sovereign, not by the sovereign. Why, then, does this law give privileges to power and to the Church? Where's your sovereign? Where's the respect for the sovereign? You've got your heads down. The Sovereign will settle you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u587	The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u588	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In Poland, we remember a time when manifestations which did not like the PRL were banned. Do you want to go back to that time? Remember, at that time, citizens did not obey this law. You want to lead to illegal demonstrations? Why? You're gonna bring territorial defence troops to the citizens? And one more question: Are the assemblies for power or for the citizens? Be aware that there are completely different tools for power. Why, then, should the assemblies organized by authority be more important? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u589	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u590	Thank you very much. I have a question for the applicants. You are introducing a new category: cyclical assembly. What were you going to do when you set the criteria for such gatherings? So, for at least three years, at least four times a year, consent for three years. What does that tell you? Because I don't find any keys here. And the second question is: How do you imagine, in practice, setting the distance of 100 m from the congregation? Are these gonna be police cordons, tapes? And what if the countermandators take a step forward and it's 99 meters? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u591	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u592	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the applicants of this project, which has happened since last year, when the convention bill was passed, that the state is coming and making this proposal today. Independence March - communications from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration clearly showed that this is the most peaceful march. I do not remember that during one of the months there were some things that would threaten those attending these conventions. So what happened that there was a need for so far-reaching restrictions in this area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u593	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For some time now, we know that the assemblies are yours and ours. It's gonna be a long time anyway. I wonder if there are sloppy, vertical and other gatherings, or will they cross? Teachers protested in front of our parliament today. I suppose, according to your project, this manifestation would not be possible. [[No, it's not. You have to understand what you're saying.]] Today in Wroclaw, Wroclaw was manifested against the disgraceful arrest of Joseph Pinior. This assembly would probably not be possible either, because your project is very restrictive and bureaucratic. [[You have to understand this bill.]] I wonder why the state restricts freedom for Poles, what it is intended to serve. In the theater, for example. there is a subscription system in place because it ensures the functioning - in Germany in particular - of good money to the theatre. And you want to have a subscription convention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you doing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u595	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u596	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, you're complaining to the marshal that we're late in the process, but it's your fault that you're making a schedule in such a way that you're proceding these important projects...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u597	The Bureau of the Sejm shall determine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u598	...under the cover of the night. [[Your marshal is just tired of this job.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u599	The Sejm Bureau.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u600	Mr. Marshal, if that's how you plan the program...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u601	There's also a representative of your club. [[I'm sure he's the one who invented this debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u602	...then you'll have to deal with it later. On the other hand, I wanted to ask a question about this project. Well, the state adds provisions introducing such a requirement that a distance of 100 m must be kept between two assemblies and more. I wanted to ask: How will this be assessed? Will this be the center of one assembly, the middle of the other, and somehow it will be measured, or between the last standing member and the first standing member? How will this be done? Because this recipe is absolutely curiosity, I don't understand it. When we tried [[♪ The bell ♪]] To figure out how you're gonna do it, we really have different ideas...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u603	Thank you very much. A list of MPs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u604	...but it's all right for Barei's next movie.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u605	...the voice was exhausted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u606	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u607	The Undersecretary of State will now speak... [[Something unbelievable, how rude it is.]] ...in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Mr. Sebastian Gwałek. Sir, I'm asking you to calm down, because I'm gonna be... [[Sir, I'm very calm, I just can't get over it. Do you enjoy interrupting in the middle of a sentence?]] A huge one, yes. [[You know what, this isn't normal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u608	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to quickly and concisely present the position of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration towards the project. At present, there is no government position on this project. In our view, this is a solution that rationalises the administrative procedures in the field of safety management in public space, prevents risks that can arise by allowing for gatherings to be organised at the same place and time, where confrontative assumptions arise, simply prevents this confrontation, gives the possibility to set a safe distance between assemblies, thus affecting security and public order. The Ministry of Home Affairs supports this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You've made a lot of effort.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u609	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak? You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: In fact, a representative of the Ministry said what...]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u610	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In many questions, but also in club statements, such a charge was made to applicants that this is, of course, a reduction in democracy according to the state and preventing manifestations or counter-manifestations. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment does not restrict or prohibit any manifestation to any extent. The only difference between what is now in the law and what we are proposing is that if we have a state ceremony, because you have also made such accusations, e.g. In front of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier... [[Voice from the hall: Military parade for example.]] ...or e.g. November 11th parade, we suggest that 100 m... If Mr Mieszkowski wants to organize a counter-manifesto before the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in order not to celebrate November 11th... [[But I would like both here and here at the same time.]] ...then we suggest to you that you may, but step away from 100 m so that there will be no street shortness. Why would I do that? You mean what? You're talking about a fight, because on the same sidewalk you want to organize... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[He's famous for beating everyone up.]] The point is that everyone should have the right to manifest freely - and those who are cyclically manifesting, and those who want to organize countermanifestation. On the last route of the Independence March... In fact, frankly, I do not understand the question that you have asked by the Member representing the Kukiz club in the club's speech, because I will say, Mr... You're an MP. I will say, Mr President, that several counter-manufactures were reported on the last route of the Independence March at the same time. At that time, this problem was resolved by local governments, by the police. I must have been on the second order of the Independence March many years ago, too. I was on this march. Then came the German Antifa, with helmets, shields and poles... [[Blasphemy.]] ...and did a countermandation in the same place and at the same time. The stones were flying, sir. [[When was that?]] [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: In the facts they said.]] A situation in which in legal conditions now existing can be organized countermanification in the same place and at the same time, this is a situation in which the law and the Polish state simply allows an organization which wants to lead to a street confrontation, the free start of such a street confrontation, a forceful confrontation... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But this is against the European Charter of Human Rights!]] ...and it's only the police who have to save it. This is ridiculous. [[Game in the O.R.]] If Mr Mieszkowski or... If Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus would like to organize a manifestation, then I am in favour of you organising this manifestation freely, [[Game in the O.R.]] and countermandation so that it can also take place, but under such conditions as not to prevent this manifestation. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But the countermandation does not have to assume that we are fighting in advance. Come on, Mr...]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been questions about how this can be settled in practice. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these questions could also be asked under the terms of the current law - how the police cope with the fact that they are reported in the same place and at the same time distribute demonstrations. Luckily for us, providence is watching over us, someone over a cop's picker didn't throw a stone to hit someone in the head and it would end badly. And I saw the rocks flying on the demonstrations. Therefore, we propose 100 m. 100 m is a distance which - do not be afraid of the state - an operating police officer can freely determine. This is the distance from which the camera's eye can see that this is countermandation. From this distance, you can hear the counter-manufacturing, you can see, you can record it with a camera. This guarantees a citizen's right to countermanipulation, but on the other hand it does not prevent this first manifestation. Ladies and gentlemen, it's obvious. All the voices that have been cast on your part regarding the fact that we are banning any manifestation are inconsistent with the facts... [[Because you're afraid of demonstration. And why are you taking authority from local governments?]] ...this project, this amendment to the bill. We do not forbid any manifestation or countermandation. We are just saying that if there is a national holiday, a national holiday, 11 November, 3 May, 15 August, on which there are foreign guests, we say: note - we see what is happening in Western Europe - if anyone wants to counter-manage, please step aside 100 m, because you can see and hear such a countermanification 100 m away, but this is not a ban on manifestation. This is only to draw attention to the fact that the first person to organize it, e.g. It's cyclical, it's also entitled to a demonstration, isn't it? Our law must not presume, allowing such situations that counter-manifestans will prevent the initial manifestation. One law cannot limit another. We say in this way that our proposal, both on the one hand and on the other side, will allow us to freely manifest our views. What kind of bans? What are you talking about? And now - it's not true that it only applies to months or anniversaries, because each of you... Mr Sosnowski from the Polish People's Party, please read this draft amendment. It says state and national holidays. And national. Now answer the question. [[A month.]] Is the systematic annual meeting of the Polish People's Party in Wierzchosławice... [[Now the piss meets.]] ...which aims to celebrate - a beautiful celebration... [[Disrupted by the PiS.]] ... Vincent Witos, Prime Minister, who fought for Poland's independence... Fortunately, they do not take place there in the same place and at the same time counter-manufacturings that aim to destroy this ceremony. But if, in 10 or 15 years' time, someone came up with this idea... You're very weirdly agitated. ...to destroy this beautiful celebration of yours, to destroy it. Ladies and gentlemen, also regarding the march of November 11th... [[It's made for CODE, too.]] If, in connection with an important national anniversary, a national patriotic CODE comes up with an idea to meet regularly every month or every year, then what? Then we're just gonna keep it from CODE because we're gonna be doing... [[Yeah, that's exactly what you're gonna do.]] In the meantime, anybody gonna come up with an idea to break up that CODE manifesto? No. [[Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law applies to all groups, all political forces. Any one of you could be in this situation. [[Applause]] Each of you may be in this situation. I was at the manifestation on 11 November - you know that Law and Justice have been meeting in Krakow for a long time this day, especially in Krakow, it is a march organized by national environments - and I saw the whole street. The Marshal was closed by people with shields and helmets. And I'll tell you more, you say, "States have priority, and it shouldn't be like this." On 11 November, during the Civil Platform's rule, my association of historical reconstructions was invited to a national defence ceremony in Krakow Przedmieście and in historical uniforms from the 19th century, organized by the Minister of Defence from the Civic Platform, my association Legia Nadwiślańska marched at the invitation of the Minister. My colleagues were brutally and vulgarly attacked by... [[What year?]] [[Voice from the room: 4 years ago, in your reign.]] ...guests from Germany from so-called. Antify. It's been highlighted by the media. And now - why wouldn't there be such a possibility that if the Polish State organized the ceremony on 11 November, then the counter-manification could not take place 100 m further? How? This limits the right of countermandation to express its views? [[PiS wasn't here yet and we celebrated November 11th. Nobody bothered.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm finishing my final sentence. This proposal to amend the law aims to extend and facilitate the free manifestation and counter-manufacturing of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u611	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, it was reported... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, but two names are mentioned.]] But, Mrs... [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: I did not get the answer to the questions.]] That was the answer to the questions. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: In corrigendum mode.]] No, that was the answer to the questions. [[Voice from the Chamber: About 100 m please step back, Member.]] A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. [[You're the draftsman of the committee, Mr. Marshal...]] We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. [[The draftsman of the committee didn't understand what...]] [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: The rapporteur has not answered our questions. Mr. Marshal, how are you feeling? I thought you were at the demonstrations.]] We proceed to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency (print no. 1047). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u612	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to present the assumptions for the Act no. 1047, i.e. the draft Act amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. What's the bill about? Firstly, the proposed act aims to ensure continuity of management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. Secondly, in the current legal state, the procedure for entrusting the management of the agency's activities has been exhausted. The competition procedures carried out so far have not selected candidates that meet the requirements. Thirdly, I would like to inform you that it is important that the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency as a public limited company is being examined in parallel or prepared. This bill is in public consultation. Fourthly, there is a need to ensure continuity of the agency's management. This is very important in view of the fact that there is a revision of the Agency's performance plan. This revision plan will be applied from 1 January 2017 and its implementation will require significant stepping up of activities, in particular operational and investment activities, on the PAIiIZ side, which simply requires efficient management of the Agency. In view of the above, it can be said that the draft law amends the rules of appointment of the President. The proposal envisages a change in the requirements for the appointment of this President. The proposed law provides that a candidate for President is obliged to meet the criteria that are set out in the Act. Another issue - the proposed law also changes the assumptions regarding the method of electing one of the deputy presidents. In this case, the point is that there shouldn't be a situation as it is right now, which means that only former presidents could be vice presidents. We just want to expand the list of candidates for vice presidents. We also propose that the law enter into force the day following its publication. The Act does not give rise to economic consequences, it is compatible with European law. Thank you very much. I propose that this bill be referred to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u613	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Grzegorz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present a position for the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, print no. 1047. The amendment of the Act aims to ensure continuity of management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. In the current state of affairs, as my colleague Mr Rzońc has said, the procedure for entrusting management of the agency's activities has been exhausted. To date, competition procedures have not selected candidates that meet the requirements laid down in the Act. At the same time, a competition was announced for the position of President of PAZP. On the date of entry into force of the proposed law, competitions launched and not completed before the date of entry into force of the law shall be terminated, inter alia. the competition that is now announced. In addition, the project envisages a change in the requirements to be met by the candidate for appointment as President of the PAZP. According to this amendment, the candidate for President is required to have at least five years' work experience, including at least three years' working in managerial positions. Clarification has been given up, indicating that experience in managerial positions is intended only for civil aviation-related positions, as has been the case so far. In addition, it should have knowledge and skills in matters falling within the competence of the Agency. The date of entry into force is specified in the draft law at the date following the date of publication. The need for such a short vacathio legis is due to the fact that the deadline for the duties of the current President of PAZP expires at the end of this year, on 31 December. As mentioned above, all formal possibilities of entrusting responsibilities to the head of this institution were exhausted, and so far announced competitions did not lead to the election of the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The current competition procedure also fails to guarantee both the deadline for its completion before the end of the period for which it was entrusted with the duties of President, i.e. until 31 December 2016 and the consequences of selecting a person as President. Due to the safety of air navigation, services of strategic importance for our country, it is not advisable to provide for the management of the agency responsible for the movement in Polish airspace resulting in paralysis of this body. As already mentioned by the representative of the committee, an additional aspect is the implementation on 1 January 2017 of changes to the performance plan of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. It should be stressed that the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency SA, which will transform the state legal person, which is currently the agency, into a single-member company of the State Treasury, i.e. PAŻP SA, is being examined in parallel. This project will regulate, among others. the organisation of the company, including the procedure for the appointment and dismissal of the company's president and members of the company's management board. The project has now been submitted for inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultation. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club strongly recommends amendments to the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, print no. 1047, and asks the High House to accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u615	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u616	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present my position to the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. According to the designers, the proposed act aims to ensure continuity of management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. In fact, the procedure for entrusting management of the agency's activities has been exhausted in the current situation. To date, competition procedures have not selected candidates that meet the requirements laid down in the Act. However, the question arises as to why it was waited so long to submit an appropriate bill, whether it could not be predicted that such a situation could occur as it is today. If the legislative initiative had taken place earlier, there would have been no need to establish such a short, sorry, so short vacathio legis, which always raises reasonable doubts. However, these reservations do not change the fact that the situation really requires order. The Act amends the rules of appointment of the President. In addition, the project envisages a change in the requirements to be met by the candidate for appointment as President. According to the current article. Article 6 (6) (a) 4 point 6 of the Act of 8 December 2006 on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, the candidate for President shall be required to have at least 5 years' working experience, including at least 3 years' working time in management positions related to civil aviation. On the other hand, the proposed law provides that a candidate for President is required to have at least five years' work experience, including at least three years' working in managerial positions. Clarification has been waived to indicate that experience in managerial positions is intended only for civil aviation-related positions. In addition, it should have knowledge and skills in matters falling within the competence of the Agency. At the same time, the proposed law amends the requirements to be met by one of the deputy presidents. Unfortunately, the proposal to give up three years of managerial experience in civil aviation has a clear mark of the second bottom. It indicates that the Law and Justice already have a candidate for this position. It indicates that the PiS intends to take over the Polish Air Navigation Agency. This project is incidental and concerns the appointment of a new President and Vice-Presidents. It is a pity that it is procedated quickly, that it is a very instrumental action, whose aim is to fill another state agency, that there is no in-depth analysis and debate on air traffic safety, that there is no comprehensive comprehensive law in this area. The area covered by the proposed regulation needs to be organized and adapted to reality, which is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is in favour of directing the project to further work in committee. At the same time, we will be actively involved in further work on the project, asking, clarifying the ambiguities and identified doubts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u617	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Khrushch on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u618	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The primary objective of the Act is to ensure continuity in the management of the Agency's activities. In today's situation, the procedure for entrusting management of the agency's activities has been exhausted, and the above law therefore amends the rules of appointment of the President. The draft envisages changes in the requirements to be met by the applicant for the appointment of President of the Agency. Under the proposed law, a candidate for President is required to have at least five years' work experience, including at least three years' working in managerial positions. It is not clarified that experience in managerial positions is intended only for civil aviation-related positions. In addition, it should have knowledge and skills in matters falling within the competence of this agency. Such amendments have also been made to ensure that replacements of the President can be chosen from a wide range of candidates with the knowledge, skills and experience required for such a position. Of course, safety in the area of air navigation is the most important. The Agency is of major strategic importance for state security, therefore the legal status of the regulation enabling the management of the agency responsible for traffic in Poland's airspace must be regulated as a matter of urgency. The bill has no social, economic, financial impact. The draft law does not entail a burden on the state budget or budgets of local government units. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 supports the bill submitted, recognising that it is intended to ensure continuity in the management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u619	Thank you. On behalf of the club, Mr Pudłowski will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u620	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I look at this project and I wipe my eyes not only out of fatigue, because it's hours. 1 a.m., but also amazement. Suddenly, you're putting together a project where you're really talking about two things. The first is that you have not been able to elect the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency for a year. It's been 12 months. All of a sudden, you wake up and you're laying around like this. I am surprised at my predecessors, Mr Po and Mr Kukiz15, who approach this with such understanding. It is clear to me that the pilot is not flying with us, we will soon find that we do not have a president, which means there are no people who are supposed to keep order in the Polish sky. What do these people do? They deal with take-offs, aircraft landings and other planes flying over our homeland. You wait until the last moment, and suddenly you're throwing in an hour. At 1 a.m., so that society does not see how inefficiently you fill, and actually do not fill the basic institutions in Poland. The second issue that this law is to regulate is the reduction of the requirements imposed both before the President and vice-president of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. Can't you find someone who has experience in civil aviation to fill this job? Sad, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, the Modern applies for the rejection of this law at first reading. We call on you to look at certain things in advance, not to reduce the requirements that we put before those who are responsible for air navigation safety in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u621	Thank you. And now, Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will take the floor on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u622	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! According to the applicants, the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, which we are proceeding today, aims to ensure continuity in the management of the Polish Air Navigation Agency's activities. You will allow the marshal that I will not repeat and discuss, in agreement with the late-time and tired appeal, the aspects that you have outlined to President Rozonec and my previous speakers, pointing out the issues, points and situations that relate to this project. The undisputed fact is that the question must be settled in due course, because we cannot, as Parliament, allow it to happen that on 2 January we do not have a man in a position who is responsible for such important issues. I'm not gonna tell you any more and ask questions about why there was no candidate so late. I think we can get back to these issues during the committee meeting, and I am sure we will get back to them. Hence the request of the Polish People's Party to direct the project to further work in committee, taking into account this - I am convinced that the President will organise it so - that there is more time for discussions and discussions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u623	Thank you. On behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, the Free and Solidarnia Circle of Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u624	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. This amendment requires continuity in the management of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The proposed regulations provide for a change in the rules of appointment of the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency and changes in the requirements to be met by candidates for the position of President and one of his deputies. The provisions of the Act, which states that the President of the Agency should have at least three years' experience in civil aviation management positions, are hereby waived, leaving only the obligation to have three years' experience in managerial positions. This amendment will increase the number of candidates meeting the required criteria. In the case of requirements for candidates for the post of Deputy President, the record of professional experience in the management of air traffic service providers shall be changed to a record requiring managerial experience in the air navigation service provider. As in the case of changes in the requirements regarding the position of the President of the Agency, this will contribute to increasing the number of candidates meeting the required criteria without affecting the agency's activities. Given the need for the proposed amendments and their compatibility with European Union law, near Free and Solidarni supports the proposed law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u625	Thank you very much, Member. Two Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. He is the first to ask the question of Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u626	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Air traffic safety has no political colors. The safety of people in air transport is an overriding objective, an absolute priority. That is why it is so important to examine in-depth and substantive discussions on safety issues, on the adaptation of the Polish Air Navigation Agency to changes and new challenges in European and global air transport. Let's start with the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. This is the right place and the right place - I look at the president. The day-long vacathio legis raises serious doubts about the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Constitution. Questions: Why so quickly? Why is there no comprehensive proposal for regulation of civil air transport, referring only to personnel issues? Does the proposed amendment to the law not have the aforementioned second bottom? Isn't it just a quick cast of the new [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Management Board of the Polish Air Navigation Agency by people with political keys?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u627	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There is Wednesday and the second draft law that we are considering, of course, the parliamentary bill, because there are no others, this time about amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. And the question is: Why does the PiS opt out of the contest mode of selecting the president of the agency? How many competitions were there that didn't select candidates for president? These were certainly badly conducted competitions, because the contest mode is the best mode, the most transparent and selects the best candidates. What is the real purpose of these statutory changes? Moreover, it is frightening that in the explanatory memorandum it is written that it is about maintaining the continuity of driving. After all, this is a very important institution. It's really scary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u629	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Jerzy Szmit, will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Members, on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, who have tabled a bill amending the way in which the President and Vice-Presidents of the Polish Air Navigation Agency are appointed, because it is a very important project to ensure - and here I fully agree with the statements of the Members - continuity of the agency's work, its safety and security in the Polish sky. We cannot afford the situation that took place in August 2015, I will repeat this date: in August 2015, when the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency was not present, because the previous one was cancelled and no successor was appointed, and for a month the Polish Air Navigation Agency did not have a President. [[It's terrible what these men do.]] That's the answer to this horror that maybe there are some here. We want to address this horror and take very concrete measures to prevent such situations, and we will not allow this to happen. As far as the work on major amendments is concerned, they are progressing, they are government work. The project is in public consultation. This is a difficult project, because it concerns very many spheres - organizational spheres, ownership spheres, very difficult to regulate, for example, the working time of controllers. This is always controversial and there are always very long discussions on this subject. And we're solving these problems today. In fact, the proposal which has been tabled by Members ensures that, in the event of its adoption, which I firmly believe, the new board will be able to, I do not hide, very much support in the work on this major amendment, and I hope that we will be able to present this amendment to the High House as soon as possible. But I would also like to refer to a few threads, important threads, questions that have been raised here. A matter of competence which the Presidents should fulfil today in accordance with the law and those competences which they should fulfil under the new law, according to a draft which is currently under discussion. What changes have taken place here. Well, in the current law, it is stated that the President must have a five-year traineeship and a three-year placement in the management of a civil aviation operating unit. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not mean that this person, who has three years of managerial experience in the civil aviation unit, is familiar with the affairs of the air navigation agency. We can really mention a lot of institutions that are from all over civil aviation, and really, in terms of these specific, very specific tasks that the agency does, those working in these institutions do not have, do not need to have this deep knowledge. We have replaced this provision with such a condition that the person has knowledge about the agency, the Polish Air Navigation Agency. This is a change that really strengthens the competences that a candidate must fulfil, which will be taken into account by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction as the President of the Agency. On the other hand, with regard to the requirements of the vice presidents, the agency has two branches of action. The first is the operational section, which are primarily controllers, but also all maintenance that ensures the safety of shipping. But the agency is also an institution that employs more than 1800 people and performs other functions and can be led by a person who is a manager, but must be a person who specializes in air navigation matters. It's one of the vice presidents. And that's what we provide here, too, because the record we're proposing is what we provide. However, according to the current provisions, this is the situation that only one of the former presidents of the agency can be vice president. This is the situation, among others. This caused so great problems when it comes to the competition, the selection of people who could in the competition, which we didn't start, but started the previous government... But after selecting two candidates, it turned out that these candidates simply did not meet the conditions to run such an important institution. We therefore immediately started working on a profound amendment of the Law on the State Agency. They are coming to an end, but today, in the name of responsibility for the functioning of this institution, I thank you once again for presenting this small amendment. I would also like to say one more very important thing, namely that today the agency and the whole government, or at least the part that is responsible for civil aviation, are working to revise the performance plan. The idea is for the air navigation agency to be able to charge higher fees for the operation of Polish sky. Today these fees are among the lowest in Europe, which, of course, causes very bad financial consequences, limits the opportunities for the Agency to develop or even operate. Those fees weren't for several years raised, even the previous government did not try to raise these fees, even though it is obvious. We have three times lower charges today than for flying over Germany, so the difference is huge. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Yesterday and today in Vilnius, together with our Lithuanian partners, we discussed the further functioning of the Baltic FAB. Decisions have been made that we formally report to the European Commission that the Baltic FAB has begun to function, that it already meets all the conditions. This will allow us to seek to withdraw proceedings before the European Commission, in which there are more than 20 European countries, which have not yet fulfilled this condition, which we and the Lithuanians have fulfilled. We have also signed a further FAB strategy, as well as set out the tasks for the coming time. These tasks will be carried out primarily by the Polish Air Navigation Agency under the new management, which will be indicated, I hope, by the new law, and it will certainly be a competent person, who will fully carry out those tasks for which the Polish Air Navigation Agency is appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u631	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and certain other laws (Prints Nos 1028 and 1037). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u632	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws. The Senate of the Republic of Poland introduced four amendments at its meeting on 15 November 2016. In Amendment 1. The Senate considered it necessary to harmonise the legal situation of military judges and general court judges as regards the changes made to disciplinary proceedings. The Law on the System of General Courts introduced a new penalty to reduce the basic remuneration of a judge by between 5% and 20% for a period of between 6 months and 2 years. In addition, in the new article. 133a rules have been laid down to bring together penalties and to rule on judges of common courts on a collective penalty in disciplinary proceedings. Rules of disciplinary action concerning judges of military courts shall be governed by the applicable separate law, the Law on the system of military courts. Some of the issues are dealt with by itself in this law and, in part, by law, in Article. 70 § 1 - requires the proper application of the provisions of the Law on the System of General Courts. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is 1 The law on the regime of military courts is not referred to in Article. 109 or Article 109. 133a as for those articles to be applied mutatis mutandis to military court judges. In the case of Article. 109 is a proper procedure, since the Law on the System of Military Courts contains a separate provision - Article. 39, which defines the catalogue of disciplinary penalties. Although it is a faithful mapping of the text of the article. 109 The Law on the System of General Courts, however, actually establishes some differences, e.g. as regards the absence of severe consequences of the sentence of reprimand. Also introduced by law in respect of judges of general courts, the prohibition on taking up the office of President, Vice-President or Head of the Court Centre does not automatically extend to judges of military courts. The Senate, stating that there is a need for equal status of judges of both types of court, with the exception of binding military judges in service relations, and recognising that there is no basis for different treatment of general court judges and military court judges, has introduced appropriate amendments to the Article. 39 § 1 and Art. 70 § 1 Law on the regime of military courts which harmonise the principles of disciplinary liability of judges. By introducing Amendment 2, the Senate was intended to clarify at the stage of the court proceedings the time at which it would be possible for the prosecutor to submit a request for referral to him in order to complete the investigation or investigation. The application must be made before the judgment is delivered. Amendment 3 is the most important amendment proposed by the Senate. Its substance is the removal of the mouth. 1a inserted in Article. 5 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. This provision provides for a return of the case to the prosecutor at the stage of the appeal procedure in order to remedy the deficiencies of the investigation. As the Senate pointed out, at the jurisdictional stage, it is the court, not the prosecutor, who acts as dominus litis, which means he is in charge of the proceedings. The expression of this item is the freedom of the court to issue procedural decisions. However, in this provision, the appeal court is bound by the prosecutor's request and must repeal the judgment of the court of first instance, although there are no conditions laid down in the provisions of the Article. 439 § 1 and Art. 454 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, nor is it necessary to carry out the cable in its entirety again. That decision shall not be subject to appeal. According to Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution each has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, impartial and independent court. This provision, by ordering the case to be brought back to the stage of the investigation, i.e. to the beginning, will undoubtedly affect the extension of the entire procedure, contributing to its excessive duration and thus to the infringement of the party's right to hear the case without undue delay. The Senate also considered that the rule did not meet the higher diligence standard to be applied to persons temporarily arrested, for whom the timely operation of procedural authorities has a specific dimension. Amendment 4 introduces changes of an editorial nature. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 12 words "prescription provisions' shall be replaced by "the provisions of the Act as amended by Article 12'. 1 with a disciplinary statute. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights recommends that the High House adopt all four amendments, except that amendments 2 and 3 should be voted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u633	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws. The Senate, as it was said, has made four amendments. The first concerns the harmonisation of the legal situation of military judges and universal courts as regards the changes made to disciplinary proceedings. The Senate, stating that there is a need for equal status of judges of both types, with the exception of binding military judges of service relations, and recognising that there is no basis for different treatment of general court judges and military court judges, has introduced appropriate amendments to the Article. 39 § 1 and Art. 70 § 1 Law on the regime of military courts which harmonise the principles of disciplinary liability of judges. In the second amendment, the Senate was intended to clarify at the stage of the court proceedings the time when it would be possible for the prosecutor to submit a request for referral to him in order to complete the investigation or investigation. Amendment 3 is the most important amendment proposed by the Senate. Its substance is the removal of the article. 1a inserted in Article. 5 of the Act of 10 June 2016 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist, and the Act on Patients' Rights and the Ombudsperson of Patients. This provision provides for a return of the case to the prosecutor at the stage of the appeal procedure in order to remedy the deficiencies of the investigation. The Senate noted that at the jurisdictional stage it was a court, not a prosecutor who was in charge of the proceedings. The expression of this item is the freedom of the court to issue procedural decisions. Amendment 4 introduces an editorial amendment. As Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, the amendments tabled by the Senate are positive and we do not raise any objections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u635	Thank you very much. Ms Zofia Czernow will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts and certain other laws. The Senate has made four amendments to the bill. I will not discuss these amendments, because the rapporteur has presented them in very detail, and my previous speaker. I would therefore like to emphasise... I would particularly like to draw attention to amendments 2 and 3 concerning Article. The 10 amendments, which largely take into account the reservations raised by our club, are proposals for amendments that we have tabled during the legislative process. I would like to say that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the amendments tabled and will vote in favour of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u637	Thank you very much. Now Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. There's no envoy? [[Voice from the room: It's here, it's coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u638	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to state that we will support all four amendments - especially two of these amendments are going in a very good direction - although we do not like the whole of the bill, as we have raised the case from the beginning, the way of legislation, the setting of seven laws under one law, once again indicates that the Sejm's legislation system is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u639	Thank you very much. Now your Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we started to proceed with this bill, Minister, we were talking about a complaint for the length of proceedings and some other laws to be amended. And then, at the same time, it became a matter of amending the Law on the System of General Courts and some other laws. This shows how you've prepared this bill -- just like again. But that doesn't change the fact... You are now submitting amendments, which we are talking about, that they take into account our comments somewhere, one club or another, but that does not change the fact that you want to correct the wrong bill, because it, on the basis of the basic principles, is wrongly written. Whatever you're doing under this bill, it's wrongly written. I'm already overlooking the fact that you now want to... Of course, not in the Seyms, that's where you have to start, not even in the Seym you're making these amendments, just your colleagues in the Senate... You're talking about returning the file to the preliminaries pending judgment, but in court proceedings, when the court decides this case and not the prosecutor's, you create a situation in which the court has to do something because the prosecutor has requested it. And yet, you can also conduct evidence proceedings before the court. So why do you want to do that? Do you think that if two or three amendments are made, they will correct the wrong, wrongly written bill? If this is how we make the law, if we prepare your draft law, which is supposed to be bad, and even though you know that this project was bad, you make the wrong law because it is contrary to the principles of legislative technology, please forgive us, which law are we making? Where are we headed? If you write a good bill that fairly resolves the subject, the opposition will really support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u641	Thank you. Now Mr Krzysztof Paszyk on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u642	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Law on the Government of General Courts and some other laws. From the catalogue of the four amendments which were tabled by the Senate, the most important amendment in our view deletes the provision ordering the courts to revoke the judgment at the request of the prosecutor and to refer the case to the investigation. According to the amendment, such withdrawal of the case at the request of the prosecutor would be possible only in the courts of first instance before the judgment takes place. This would no longer be possible in the appeal proceedings before the Court of First Instance. All other amendments are only editorial in nature and none of them will in principle change the shape of the law, which - as the previous speakers have said - is not a good law, it is a law which, as we have stressed, on one occasion tries to incorporate a number of contradictory things, and here this cosmetics, which has been proposed in the Senate, will not change in any way. Interpreting doubts are still raised by the provision that the court, taking into account the action for the length of proceedings, grants a certain amount of money for each year of the proceedings. It would be appropriate to specify for each year the duration established so that monetary compensation is not granted for periods in which the duration has not been established. We do not see the possibility that, after these four amendments or on the basis of the four amendments of the Senate, we can change the point of view of the proposed law. Therefore, by looking kindly towards the amendments, we will support them, while the whole sceptical picture of this law remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u643	Now, on behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, Mr Ireneus Gains.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u644	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Law on the System of General Courts and on certain other laws. During the work on this bill, the Senate proposed four amendments, from which amendments 2 and 3 on the issue that I drew attention to during the 29th session of the Sejm appear to be at the top of the agenda. We're talking about the powers of the D.A.'s office conferred on her in the article. 10 points 1 and 2. I emphasized then, and I quote: Such an instrument granted to the prosecution, interfering in the powers of the court, is very dangerous, because in irresponsible application it will lead to the chronicity of court trials and general chaos in the justice system. The prosecution has a duty to prepare the full material before filing an indictment. The new essential circumstances may always form the basis for initiating a new proceeding and it is therefore surprising that such a decision has been adopted by the applicant. The Senate has come to the same conclusion, rightly pointing out that it is a court, not a prosecutor, who acts as a dominus litis, which means he is in charge of the proceedings. The expression of this item is the freedom of the court to issue procedural decisions. Meanwhile, according to the article. 10 (2), the appeal court is bound by the prosecutor's request and must annul the judgment of the court of first instance, although there are no conditions laid down in the provisions of the Article. 439 § 1 and Art. 454 Codek of criminal proceedings. There is no need to rewire the cable in its entirety. The Senate therefore rightly proposed to delete the article in its entirety. 10 point 2. On the other hand, in relation to point 1, relating to cases pending at first instance, a time limit has been introduced for the prosecutor to submit a request for referral to him in order to complete an investigation or investigation. As proposed by the senators, this request must be made at the latest before the judgment is delivered. In the opinion of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, this is still not an optimal solution, as there is a potential risk that irresponsible application of this power by prosecutors will adversely affect the duration of criminal proceedings. On the other hand, it is good that the Senate significantly reduced this power by amending point 1 and deleting point 2, thus giving a clear signal to the prosecution to use it in a reasonable manner only if it is really necessary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u645	Thank you very much. One Member has asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u646	Mr. Marshal! Absent Izbo! We have a social meeting of 10 people at the moment. 1.30, Mr. Marshal. I really give it to you, do something, because we still have a debate about the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It can't be like this, it's a very bad law, and it's up to you. This is sick. Member States, the proposed amendments to the Law on the System of General Courts in the form of the introduction of disclosure of claims of property, the extension of time limits for disciplinary deliberations, the extension of the catalogue of disciplinary penalties should be assessed critically, as they undermine judicial independence and independence. The publication of the statements carries a serious risk of identifying the judge. It is not possible to share the view of the projector that the tools in the form of anonymity of the statement and giving [[♪ The bell ♪]] The reserved clause eliminates...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u647	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u648	...or are clearly weakening this risk...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u649	The list...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u650	...especially in smaller urban centers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u651	...publishers, that is, a list of speakers enrolled in...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u652	The serious consequence of the judge's identification - I'm almost done... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u653	...the voice has been exhausted. Mr Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak. Mr President, you did not fit in time. Please leave the podium. Mr President, you did not fit in time. You have to work to ask short questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u654	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the government, I would like to present our position on this bill and the amendments that the Senate has tabled to the bill. As a government, we do not object to these amendments, all four amendments. In particular, in the first case, this amendment addresses the consistency of the system. It is about equalizing, you can say, the status of general court judges and military courts. In answer to the question of the Member, I would like to say that this question does not fall within the scope of these four amendments, but precisely for the reasons that you are talking about, namely the transparency of the declarations of property, because of some facilitation for citizens as regards the whole process of complaining about chronicity, the introduction of a new disciplinary penalty, the limitation of disciplinary delicacies and the extension of these periods were worth introducing, it was worth proposing these solutions. This is also in some sense the answer to the question of Marshal Dolnyak - precisely for this reason, in order to meet the expectations of citizens and to try to regain confidence in the justice system, that is why these records had to appear, they should have appeared much earlier. As far as the long-term complaint is concerned, I'd just like to return...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u655	Minister, you're replacing the marshal. We're gonna be having a discussion right now... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I don't want to have a discussion, I just want to say that... ...in the room at half past two in the morning. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: ... 55% complaints, your marshal, were rejected because there were formal errors. Today, a citizen will be able to bring such a complaint again. It's good for the citizens. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Your marshal, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u656	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Does Law and Justice think that if a judge makes a public statement, it will speed things up? All year round, you've been writing a project in which you've only taken into account the punishment of judges. Should the punishment improve the conduct or intimidate the judges? That's not gonna make the court case any better. We are waiting for your draft laws to speed up these procedures. If the publicity or punishment of judges is to cause this, forgive me, but the Ministry of Justice does not know what justice means, because this is not the way, this is not how the procedure improves. If you believe that the prosecutor will decide in court proceedings whether the file is to be returned or not, is this a draft of a new, good bill? Excuse me, but... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u657	Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u658	I don't think that's the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u659	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (Prints 1041 and 1073). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u660	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in connection with the resolution adopted by the Senate of the Republic of Poland on 17 November on the Statute of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, resulting in 11 amendments. Most of these amendments are legislative amendments, but five deserve a specific indication. I would like to point out that, first of all, Amendment 2 introducing the possibility of using the funds from the shares by transferring them to a separate account and taking up after the end of the term of office should be considered as a positive solution which in principle responds to the opposition's proposals. The relief of the rigour of the loss of the mandate in the event that the spouse fails to make a declaration of his intention to conduct his business by calling on the judge to satisfy his obligation within 30 days, i.e. to exclude the automaticity of the loss of the mandate of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, should also be considered as such a safety valve and as a correct solution. The subsequent relaxation proposed by the Senate, the substantive amendment, is the inclusion in the process of applying for disciplinary action by the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal also of the first President of the Supreme Court, namely, it is proposed that the prosecutor-general, when applying to the President for disciplinary action, should also seek the opinion of the first President of the Supreme Court. The next amendment already applies to retired judges, namely to allow judges to speak at rest in public matters and to enable them to work with more than one employer, but with this limitation to a single post. This should be seen as a positive solution that alleviates those rigors that had previously been criticised. For these reasons, in conclusion, I point out that the committee requests that all 11 amendments proposed by the Senate of the Republic of Poland be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u661	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that the discussion on this item would be held on behalf of clubs and circles for three minutes. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to submit a brief opinion on the amendments tabled in the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 15 November on the statute on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Without repeating the amendments tabled, I would point out that both these legislative and the substantive ones deserve approval and consideration. That is why Law and Justice will be in favour of these amendments and in favour of the entire law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u663	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u664	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 1:40 a.m. Once again, we can say better late than never. For once again we are witnessing the situation that the legitimate arguments raised by Members of the opposition during the work in the Sejm were completely ignored by Members of the Law and Justice solely for political reasons. At that time, we were called troublemakers, croissants, and protectors of the system. And we are only concerned with the sound, fair and fair law that is in this House. The amendments adopted in the Senate only confirm my conviction that the Members of the Law and Justice act completely blindly, implementing the political orders of President Jarosław Kaczyński. The most important amendments are, of course, those concerning changes to the Article. 33 a law which regulates the powers of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest. Not only Members of the Civic Platform, but also Members of other parliamentary clubs, experts, NGOs, we all said with one voice that banning any public activity for former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is a murder for a fair public debate, democratic rule of law and elementary decency, which should guide those ruling that the statutory ban on speaking is a symptom of cowardice and fear of criticism. At the time, Mr Piotrowicz defended these words as independence, explaining that it was for the benefit of the tribunal and Polish citizens, but yet Mr Piotrowicz, his fellow Members in the Senate, had a different opinion and saw that public activity of TK judges at rest was something good and desirable. That is why I am now asking Members of the Law and Justice, all two present in this Chamber. How are you right now, looking citizens in the eye, voting on these Senate amendments? Why aren't you defending your points so much, which you said on that Seymour's Speaker three and four weeks ago? Of course, you can say that nothing is ever perfect and you can always improve something, but what are you guided by, rejecting the opposition arguments and taking the same arguments from your fellow parties? Therefore, from this point of view, I call on Members of the Law and Justice to listen to the arguments of the Members of the opposition and the expert communities when working on further laws, not just about the Court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will certainly increase the quality of the created...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u665	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u666	...in the Seym of Law...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u667	Mr Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u668	...and will allow you to spare embarrassing speeches and translate yourself into Polish society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u669	There's no envoy. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u670	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be noted that, despite a number of proposals for amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Statute Act in the right direction, such as a clear statement that the judge of the Tribunal at rest has the right to speak on public matters, the Senate resolution does not, however, eliminate the essential and serious non-compliance with the Constitution. This law remains one of the legislative nails to the coffin for the protection of the Constitution in Poland. The Act continues to have an innocent-looking appeal for appropriate application in the event of disciplinary proceedings under the Law on the System of General Courts. These provisions enable the Minister of Justice to request the judge concerned to withdraw immediately from his duties in certain situations. The Act retains the non-constitutional principle that the rules for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will be laid down only in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, although the Court has consistently held that the procedure for the selection of a judge of the Tribunal goes beyond the exclusive sphere of the rule of law of the Sejm. The law continues to contain a clear violation of the Constitution by a provision indicating that it is not the election of a judge by the Sejm, but the taking of an oath to the President is to be an act prejudicing the seat of the judge in the Constitutional Court. The Act, following the amendments of the Senate, continues to provide for a shortening of the term of office of the judge of the Tribunal in situations not provided for by the Constitution. The law continues to contain a provision that prevents prominent representatives of Polish science from sitting in international judicial bodies and is contrary to the interests of Poland, reduces the possibility of promoting Polish science in the world and reduces the importance of our country. High Izbo! This law in its current form will continue to be a political leash so that the rulers can exert pressure on the Constitutional Tribunal. In its introduction in the long term it will lose the PiS and lose Polish democracy, all citizens will lose.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u671	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u672	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present our position on the report of the Senate's committee on the statute on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is a project that we have considered to be a bad project from the very beginning, a project that is extremely harmful, which is at the core of this institution, which is the Constitutional Tribunal. The Senate has made some amendments to him, including. such that the judges of the tribunal at rest retain the right to speak in public matters. Moreover, they will not be restricted in taking up employment as scientific workers, but already subject to the condition that only one employer, which is to apply to an active judge. According to another Senate amendment, the President would have to consult the first President of the Supreme Court if he wanted to apply for disciplinary action against the judge at the request of the Attorney General. The next amendment adopted states that the court's profit from the shares and shares in the companies is to be transferred by the judge to the public or, which is the essence of the amendment, to a special account from which he will be able to draw funds after the end of his term of office. High Izbo! In fact, the amendments adopted by the Senate do not change much in this from the beginning to the end of a harmful project. In fact, only withdrawal from the restriction of the freedom of expression of judges at rest can be considered a step in the right direction, but it is far too little for the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to change its opinion about this project in a significant way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u673	Mr Ireneus will gain on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Posel Wheels. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Circle of the Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the draft law on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle consistently take the view that the form of a separate law for the precise definition of rights, obligations, service relations and the rules of liability of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal was and is necessary. We are pleased that the passed law follows the recommendations of the expert group's report. The Constitutional Tribunal, appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm. This means that the work of experts has not gone to waste, and in the longer term it will help to stabilise the situation around the tribunal so that it can start functioning without obstacles in full composition. To be adopted by the Sejm on 4 November this year. The Senate has proposed 11 amendments, of which amendment 7 is particularly important, concerning Article. 33. The text of paragraph 1 shall be proposed by the Senate. 1 of that provision ensures that the judges of the Tribunal retain their right to speak in public matters at rest, thereby repealing the prohibition laid down by the Sejm in the law on this matter. I understand the intentions of the authors of the bill, who wanted to stop the multiplying series of statements of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in a state of rest which do not respect the importance of this institution, but in this matter it is appropriate to grant the Senate a right, since the maintenance of this provision would expose the legislator to the charge of making too far-reaching interference in the freedom of expression guaranteed to citizens of the Republic of Poland under Article. 54 (1) (a) 1st Constitution. We also welcome the other amendments, such as Amendment 2, which provide an alternative to the order for the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to transfer profits from holding shares or shares in a commercial company for public purposes by means of the possibility of depositing them in a separate bank account held by a bank designated by the President of the Tribunal. Furthermore, what is important, the amendments adopted by the Senate eliminate editorial errors in the law, providing a guarantee of the implementation of the principles of correct legislation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u675	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 29 November. Members did not come forward to make their statements. Members have come forward to make their statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u676	Statement on the 75th anniversary of the death of Edward Rydz-Śmigły. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 2 December this year. The 75th anniversary of the death of Edward Rydz-Śmigłego, Polish military, politician, Marshal of Poland, General Inspector of the Armed Forces, chief commander of the Polish Armed Forces in the 1939 defence war. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words about this important character. Edward Rydz was born on 11 March 1886 in Brzeżany, a village which was then located in Eastern Galicia. In 1908, he joined the first military organization - the Union of Action Fights. Two years later, he began compulsory military service in Vienna. That same year he became a member of the Brzeżany Shooting Union. He accepted the ps. Blades. In 1912 he graduated from the Senior Officer's School of the Rifle Association. During World War I he commanded troops in many battles and fights, among others. in the fights for Nowy Korczyn, the offensive on Dęblin, the battles at Anielin, the battles at Huntchówk and in the battles at Volyn. At the beginning of November 1918, he became Minister of Military Affairs of the Provisional Government of the People's Republic of Poland in Lublin. He received the rank of general at the time. During the Battle of Warsaw in August 1920 he was the commander of the right wing of the attack group operating from Wierpa and then 2. The army he commanded until 1922. As one of the most trusted people during the May bombing in 1926 Śmigły-Rydz supported Marshal Piłsudski. This was expressed in the message to Warsaw of parts of the Vilnius garrison branches. After the death of Piłsudski on 12 May 1935, under the decree of President Ignacy Mościcki, he took over the position of General Inspector of the Armed Forces, giving enormous powers. On November 10, 1936, Blade-Rydz received the rank of General of Arms. A day later, in the Independence Day, President Ignacy Mościcki was appointed Marshal of Poland by decree. In 1939, during the Polish Śmigły-Rydz campaign, he served as chief leader. In the night from 6 to 7 September he left Warsaw and moved his accommodation to Brest on Bug. After the entry of the Soviet troops into the territory of the Republic of Poland on 17 September, together with the Polish government and President Mościcki, he crossed the Polish-Romanian border with the intention to enter France and continue fighting alongside the Allies. Interned by the Romanian authorities, he resigned on 7 November 1939. In October 1941, through Slovakia, he entered occupied Poland and moved to Warsaw. He died of a heart attack on 2 December 1941. He was buried in a civilian cemetery in Powązki under the name of Adam Zawisza. Edward Rydz-Bird was decorated, among others. Order of the White Eagle, Order of Virtuti Military Class II and Class V, Cross of Independence with Swords, Order of Polonia Restitut Class I, Class II and Class III, four times Cross of Valiant and Golden Cross of Merit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u677	Statement on the number of doctors per thousand inhabitants in Poland. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A recent report from the European Commission and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, in short the OECD, shows that Poland is among the EU countries with the lowest health expenditure and with the lowest number of doctors per thousand inhabitants. The publication "Health and health care" outlines the situation in this area in countries belonging to the European Union community, as well as in candidate countries outside the Union, namely Norway, Switzerland and Iceland. According to the report, the life expectancy of Europe's population has increased by almost 7 years since 1990: from 74.2 to 80.9 in 2014. Women live on average 83.6 years, while men live on 78.1 years. . The inhabitants of Western Europe often enjoy far longer lives than the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Europe. While the Spanish, Italian and French live on average around 83 years, Romanians, Bulgarians, Lithuanians and Latvians - about 75 years old. According to the published report, the average life expectancy in Poland is 77,8 years. The average life expectancy depends on a number of factors, but one of the main factors is the fastest and professional help from a specialist in the event of such a need. According to the above report, there are 2,3 doctors per thousand inhabitants in Poland. This is the smallest percentage in the European Union. Along with the absence of doctors, the average waiting time for a medical consultation is extended. Here you can mention, for example, eye clinics, cardiac clinics, surgical clinics, where the waiting time is really long. Such a situation could improve the employment of doctors from abroad. The last years have been extremely difficult for Polish health services, but we have had great hopes of changes that are about to take place in Poland. I therefore ask the High House to take as soon as possible measures that will contribute to the direct and increased availability of doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u678	Statement on the National Reunion of People Repressed in the War State held on 18 and 20 November 2016 in Kazimierz Dolny. In Kazimierz Dolny, a charming town located in the Puławy District in Lublin Voivodeship, the National Reunion of Repressed Persons in the War State took place on November 18, 20, 2016. The convention took place thanks to the efforts of the Puławy Association of Repressed People in the War State, the Management Board of the NSZZ Branch of the Puławy Land and the Polish Journalists Association. The seat lent the Workhouse in Kazimierz Dolny. The convention was attended by over 120 people. Among the guests - speakers was Mr Adam Borowski, a activist, among others. Solidarity Fighting, founder of Volumen Publishing House and publisher of the first album about soldiers cursed, Dr. Marcin Dąbrowski, historian from the Lublin IPN Division, author of works on Lublin Lipc and the history of NSZZ The surprise of the meeting was the presence of D.A. Andrzej Witkowski, among others. the case concerning the murder of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Fr. George Popieluszko. Those who were repressed in martial law came from all over Poland. He was present, among others. Prisoner of conscience Mr. Zygmunt Miernik convicted of a torture protest against the protection of dignitaries and criminals of martial law. The climax of the meeting was the Holy Mass concelebrated in the Kazimierz Far under the leadership of Fr. Prime Minister Tadeusz Pajurka, chaplain of political prisoners at the Hrubieszów Penitentiary during the martial law period. The participants of the convention reached a number of conclusions, among others. a proposal to speed up work on the amendment of the Law of 20 March 2015 on anti-communist opposition activists and those repressed for political reasons who have returned from the Senate to the Sejm as part of the legislative process, and a proposal relating to the need to judge the judge's environment, where the argument is the case of Mr Zygmunt Miernik. I pay my respects and appreciation to the organizers and participants of the convention. You serve Poland well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-11-29-sejm-31-1.u679	That's where we ended this point. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. November 30th... [[Voice from the room: Until today.]] ...to this day, just, I'm sorry, it is, to this day, i.e. On 30 November 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 50]]
