ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec, Małgorzata Golinska, Adam Andruszkiewicz and Arkadiusz Myrcha. The first part of the session will be Mr Agata Borowiec and Mr Małgorzata Golińska. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Arkadiusz Myrch. I consider the minutes of the 21st session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! The group of Members submitted a request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz. The application is printing number 662. The committee's opinion is in print No 677. On the basis of the article. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 in conjunction with Article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with The Council of Ministers has submitted draft laws: amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, as well as amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The designs are 668 and 669 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. Groups of Members submitted draft resolutions: amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, as well as establishing a committee of inquiry to examine the correctness and legality of the activities of public bodies and institutions vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group. The designs are 686 and 685 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these projects. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: on the activation of the shipbuilding industry and complementary industries, on draft laws relating to the Constitutional Tribunal. The reports shall be printed in 643 and 667 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 44 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Law on civil status records, - amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration, - amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws, - about changing the Sports Act. The reports shall be printed in 649, 650, 658, 657, 663 and 664 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. High Seym! At the meeting of the Sejm Bureau, objections were raised to the proposal to be heard: - Ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in the discussion on the motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz, - five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the committee's report on draft laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. I will put to the vote the proposals put to the opinion of the Sejm Bureau. Rejection of these proposals will mean that the Sejm has taken into account the proposals made at the Seniors Convention, i.e.: - hearing the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz, - Ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in discussions on the committee's report on draft laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. We are voting on the proposal to hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in the debate on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for National Defence. Who of the ladies and gentlemen is in favour of the proposal to hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in the discussion on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 161 Members voted against - 263, 1 Member abstained. [[That's a good change.]] The Sejm rejected the proposal and decided to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. [[Applause]] We are voting on the proposal to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion of the committee's report on draft laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the debate on the committee's report on draft laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 266 Members voted against - 163, no one abstained. I therefore conclude that the Sejm has accepted the proposal. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circle in discussions on: - a report submitted by the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism in 2014, - a report on the activities of the General Data Protection Officer in 2014 and 2015. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels at first reading of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider the current information on the government's attitude to commemorating the victims of genocide made on Polish citizens by the OUN-UPA criminals in Wołyń and in Eastern Małopolska and the reaction of the Polish authorities to the spread of criminal Bander ideology, which was requested by Kukiz Club Poselski15. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal was made by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask for a photo on the agenda and a reference to Print Commission No 667 on the basis of Article. 184 Rules of Procedure. Well, the print you want to process today is completely unprepared. Members got it on the mailboxes on Friday at hours. 17. Although the committee worked on it on Wednesday for 12 hours, but this print still contains a lot of inconsistencies, it is very penetrating, there are a number of negative remarks to it by both the Ombudsman, the Supreme Council of Lawyers, the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Court and many, many prominent lawyers in Poland. For this reason, we believe that this printing should be sent back to the committee and worked out. In this printing you also include this thing: all cases that are currently in the Court, i.e. about 400, will be dealt with again. This means that the tribunal will be blocked for the next three to four years. All cases that will affect the Court this year will be dealt with at the earliest after 2019. This is a complete paralysis of the tribunal, which is intended to serve citizens in respect of respect for rights and freedoms by public authority. I therefore request that we remove this item from the agenda and refer it back to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u3	Only, sir, could you say on the basis of which point or paragraph and point... [[Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 point 6 - reference to the committee.]] A referral to the committee. The request was to be deleted, so I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. The request for deletion shall not be a formal application. [[But the reference to the committee is...]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages. [[But a referral to the committee!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 12, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 12, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 14, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - National Defence together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 14, - Foreign Affairs - hour 2.30 p.m., - Education, Science and Youth together with the Commission for Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 3.30 p.m., - State control - hour 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Public Finance - hour. 4:30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 18, - Public Finance - hour. 18, - Infrastructure - hour 19, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - h.m. 7:30 p.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 8:30. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 9.30 a.m., - Parliamentary Craft and Vocational Education Team - hour. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Nurses, midwives and other health care professionals - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: people with visual impairment - hour 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Multiple sclerosis - hour 15, - Euro-realistic Parliamentary Group - hour 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u5	There you go. High Seym! I will return to the proposal proposed by Mr Kropiwnicki. I would like to explain to you and to you: Article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (6) refers to a referral to the committee. Well, Mr Kropiwnicki started with an expression, the phrase 'was deleted from the agenda' - this is not a formal conclusion... [[It's about deletion and referral.]] ...then he ended his request for referral to the committee. I would therefore like to ask you... Mr President, I take this as a conclusion: deletion and reference to the committee and I cannot accept this as a formal proposal. Therefore, would you be able to make that conclusion clear again?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, of course I'm talking about sending you back.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u7	So it's a conclusion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u8	This is the essence, because deletion is the consequence of sending back. [[But what do you mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u9	In fact, a reference can be a consequence of deletion. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Well, in that case, I accept this proposal, so formulated, as a formal proposal, and we will therefore vote on this formal proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to refer the printing report No 667 to the committee would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 184 Members voted against - 234, 8 Members abstained. I find that the Sejm has rejected the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust against the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz (prints No. 662 and 677). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Stefan Niesiołowski to provide a justification for the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour, on behalf of the Group of Members, to request the cancellation of Minister Macierewicz, whom we consider to be one of the most harmful, irresponsible people and who should not serve as minister in this government, and I must say that competition in this respect is very strong. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice leave the room]] Mr. Marshal! We've been dealing with an unbelievable thing in the committee today, even taking into account all kinds of incidents here in the courtroom. However, it has not happened that discussion has been blocked in the Parliamentary Committee. At the request of the PiS Members, a request has been made... Gentlemen, come out quick, because this is annoying. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] The members of the PiS have requested that only representatives of the club and only two minutes be allowed to speak on the committee. So there was really no discussion. So far, as you know... [[Voice from the room: To spare you the embarrassment, for your own good.]] Don't yell. Until now, as you know, we have dealt with the silent Sejm, but the silent committee is for the first time in this parliament. [[Applause]] So that the PiS develops creatively the foundations of Polish parliamentarianism. Mr. Marshal, when it comes to Minister Macierewicz, we had some flash from the side, then not the Prime Minister, Mrs.Szydło of political sense, we had a glimpse of political intuition when Mrs. Beata Szydło stood next to one of the candidates - and for all the offices this man is, as we know, suitable for every position - and she said: here is the Minister of Defence, he will not be the Minister of Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. Today we have the fulfillment of another promise by Mrs. Beata Szydło. This proposal is the result of Mrs Szydło's actions, because if that promise had been kept, we would not have had to debate. I'd say yes. One further explanation should be given to the public. It is due, because there are such statements that there is a NATO summit, that it is unnecessary, why before the NATO summit, that the moment for Poland is bad. There are even some patriotic elements that it is so important for Poland that it is necessary, so to speak, to tighten your mouth, to watch this Macierewicz play this performance and on this white horse he drives around Warsaw, and he dreams of entering Mosul and Aleppo, because then, like Sobieski, he will give this receipt and say: veni, vidi, vici. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In short, this request had to be rejected. I take seriously the opinions of the Members who have formulated this thesis, but, ladies and gentlemen, if this is a terrible minister, if he is not fit, he cannot be held. It should be the other way around. If there's a summit... [[Get in the microphone, get in the microphone.]] I am sorry, because I am looking at the Members who have formulated this proposal. Excuse me. If one makes such an argument that someone is a very bad minister - and we defend this thesis, that is why this conclusion is - and yet on the most important, as some say, which is a certain exaggeration, although at a very important international event this minister should be present... Make up your mind. If he's bad, he shouldn't be, and if he's good, he should be. [[Applause]] In our opinion it is bad and for the good of Poland, for the sake of NATO, for the sake of democracy in Europe, because its NATO defends - this is a democratic institution - Minister Macierewicz at the NATO summit should not represent Poland, because it is a shame and disgrace that this man represents anyone. [[Applause]] And the second thesis, which somehow involves the first one. There were press articles telling us to give it a chance. Ladies and gentlemen, Macierewicz has had a chance in Poland for 25 years. If he took that chance, he's gonna say two words in a second. Come on, let's not get a motion right away. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd even agree with that, I'd even consider it, well, I'm a man known for unheard of mercy, and in that case, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I would also send this curtain of mercy to Macierewicz and say, let's give him this last chance, let him finally enter this Rakki on this F-16. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember what Macierewicz did, so what Macierewicz did when he accused a completely unjustly great man, a patriot who suffered a lot in Stalin's prison, and that was not a joke. I've been in a little prison, I've been sitting right, I've got no grudge against anyone. But I talked to the man who was in Stalin's prison, I'm talking about Marshal Chrzanowski. He accused him, an innocent man, completely unjustly and immediately demanded his resignation. First he wrote a report and then he demanded resignation. Do you remember, if anyone was in any way suspected of having any relationship with the agent, there was a shadow of charges, what did Macierewicz have to say? Get rid of it right now, get out of here. We remember a few words, also about us, about the Platform Members and about the previous government. He called this coalition a political gutter. What do you do with the gutter? He didn't have any scruples. Here you go, Mr Tusk: Is it true that Tusk was a Stasi agent? I'll leave this to you, so you can judge by your actions and answer your own question. I wouldn't have the courage to put a question here in the Seym, whether it's true Macierewicz is a GRU agent. What authorized him to formulate such questions? The next formulation is about further ministers of free Poland, about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about almost the most important resort: most of them in the past were agents of Soviet special services. So slightly Macierewicz makes the hardest accusations, destroying people, taking away their dignity and honor. And this man is demanding some kind of relief? Mr. Macierewicz, what measure you measure, they will measure you. Sooner or later, they'll measure all the vileness you've done. I'm not gonna keep quoting those words because I have a whole list here, a whole catalog. Maybe two more speeches, just to remind you: Polish Army returns to Poland. Brilliant thought, indeed. Emigration? London? Anyway, the thought was quite bold. The next thesis: Russia declared war on us. He never called it off. He said that in Kielce in a seminary. By the way, I congratulate the venerable rector of the seminary cleric that he opened the doors for this kind of pacifism. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Macierevich never called it off. I understand this war is going on. Next: The European Union is like a cage, who goes in there, it won't come out. Well, very far from the famous historical quote by Mrs Pavłowicz, it is not. And I think Macierevich as a patron of Brexit or, as one prominent linguist, Bretix, says, because he knows everything, also at... [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Recently, this specialist in Bretix has become known as an expert in offset. Macierewicz could be the patron saint of Bretix with such a quote. But, ladies and gentlemen, a few actions, because they were words. A Chinese proverb says, "Listen to the words, but look at the shadows." Well, let's take a look. You'll know them by their fruits. Some of Macierevich's actions. Mirror. It was a leading idol, a herald, an ideologist, you can say, a mirror, just as today with a lie about the alleged outbreak in Smolensk made the right of his political existence, and 20 years on the political stage Macierewicz exists thanks to the illustration. I am speaking in the most brief and I am speaking to young Members, new and fresh in this Seym. Not everyone knows that. A resolution was passed, under which Macierewicz was to present the agents of the High House, a list of agents of services, communist special forces. We were in ZchN at that time with Macierewicz, representing the liberal faction, just to be clear. Me and Macierewicz were liberals together with Prof. Chrzanowski. The radicals were different. Some of these people are in different places. I will not mention any, because of course I would do them fatal harm, and they certainly do not deserve it, since some must suffer in one party with Macierewicz. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But after this resolution I go to Macierewicz and I say, "Look, this is a very embarrassing matter, because it would have to be done by law, this is a resolution, it is actually not precise. There's no reading on the committee at all. Do you have agents? Are you sure about this? Yes, of course, don't be afraid - says - Kostek, I have 100 percent agents. Look, do you have evidence, or do you realize what's gonna happen when you reveal people's names and find out you're wrong? I didn't make a mistake. I've got 100 percent agents. After what Macierevich reveals? List of archive resources of the MMA. And he says, "No, no, they're not any agents, they're a political police record, and we just have to set up a committee. He even offered the head of this committee. I'm not gonna give my name either, 'cause maybe he doesn't want me to. And this committee will separate, so to speak, the grain from the chaff. After all, if he published this list, for 99% of the people, it was a list of agents. Meanwhile, after that, Macierewicz once said that they were agents, once - no, they were not agents, but in fact in the Seym he defended himself in such a way that he did not publish any list of agents. Once and for all, Macierewicz closed the vault in Poland. He erased the mirror, became a gravedigger of the mirror. In fact, High Izbo, Macierewicz, what he touched, was the undertaker of this idea. What he touched was a gravedigger. Here you go, verification of the CSI. Report unpublished so far, 400 applications to the D.A.'s office. 400 applications. How many men did he hire, prosecutors. 400 applications were sent to Macierewicz's office. They're all out. I think this is the end of all the conclusions that the PiS gentlemen are sending about the government of Prime Minister Tusk and Prime Minister Kopacz. This is how these conclusions will end, as Macierewicz's conclusions on the CSI case. Then giant compensation, which had to be paid for unjustly vilified and slandered people. One of those people was sleep. Professor Chrzanowski, who was acquitted before all courts, apologized. And what did Macierevich have to say about that? He had to say: Jury mistakes happen. This is an example of political villainy. [[Applause]] And one thing, if he had done nothing else, this political hooligan, this political hooligan, should never have been in Polish politics and sooner or later would have left Polish politics in disgrace. [[Applause]] What about today? A few more examples of such newer activities. There you go. Macierevich becomes Minister of Defense. One of the first speeches. Here in this House he says: Poland is a defenceless country, what you did to Poland, Poland is disarmed. Well, that's crazy. This is the world's first defense minister, who, to say so, says: Please, I invite everyone, Poland has nothing to defend itself. And after three days he performed a miracle, he multiplied the bread as in Cana of Galilee, the Lord Jesus. Then he says this after three days: everything is fine, great, and he said here. He's crazy. I'm sorry. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] That's what the Minister of Defense says at all. He's organizing his army. She's called a lot of things. They're talking about the forest army. There is no irony here because the forest was an ally of Poland. All Polish uprisings were based on the forest. If I say: the forest army, I do not say this in an ironic sense, because the heroic insurgents of January fought in the forest, and during World War II if it weren't for the forest, then the National Army wouldn't be so powerful. It's just that I'm opposed to a professional army, a professional army. He formulates some doctrine of an ideologically motivated army, which is to be rather an army of fanatics. And when one of the co-workers brought the documents on the defense committee, this ideology is actually supposed to be religious fanaticism. It's good if we go on an expedition against the Qatars, but the war with the Qatars is over. Macierevich was about 700 years late. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] So this is, I have to say, a pretty big delay. A scandalous night invasion of NATO in Warsaw, which caused Slovakia's protests. Weirdness, something about an atomic bomb. These deliriums were so unclear that he explained himself, but in fact, there was a shadow left. It is not fully explained that Poland... What, are we supposed to build an atomic bomb? I remember one of my fellow Members - I will no longer say who, long ago, is - went to Berlin. There Genscher spoke, asked: What does Poland need? This Member stood up and said that it would be best for the balance of the world based so far on the atomic blackmail of America and Russia - Russia then fell apart, this was the beginning of the 1990s. - was built on the basis of America and Poland, i.e. Poland is to replace Russia as a nuclear power. Genscher said: I will now consider very much whether Poland is worth providing economic aid if this aid goes to an atomic bomb. Somehow luckily, the thread wasn't taken. Macierevich didn't go that far, but he's messing with this atomic bomb. So I'd rather Macierevich didn't tamper with any bombs. That's... High Izbo, maybe just two more things, because I think that this material is so much that I want to choose just a few of these most dramatic things, e.g. activities that are difficult to describe differently than forgery of history, e.g. the action led by Minister Macierewicz blackmailing local governments and demanding that the appeal of the fallen in Smolensk be read at various ceremonies with the participation of the army. Nobody in Smolensk. He didn't fall. You can fly on the battlefield. The last battle with Polish soldiers at Smolensk was in the years 1633 and 1634 and Smolensk remained in our hands. All the later Polish victims, so to speak, were road crashes - in any case they were not battles - and a plane crash, a great tragedy that I do not want to talk about. It's different to Mr. Macierewicz and Mr. PiS that I don't use the deaths of victims, corpses, suffering for the current political struggle. It is vile, it is unfair, it is unjustified and it is extremely harmful in a wider dimension also for Poland, because it divides the nation and society. [[Applause]] But to force it, to blackmail local governments: if you don't agree to lie... Because it's a lie request. Talking about the dead at Smolensk is a lie. Poles can be found on the battlefield. There was no battle at Smolensk, there was a plane crash, which Macierewicz lies about, which Macierewicz is falsifying, blabbering about the TNT, talking about two explosions and presenting about 10 different concepts, which are mutually exclusive. It's been going on lately, apparently, some kind of mysterious wave that was interfering with the stability and steering of the plane. I must say, in this respect, he is very ingenious. But I don't want to make fun of it. I don't want to make a mockery of it, and that's why I'm just gonna limit this to those dead people's appeals. But let me say that in general, so en masse, to this - because Macierewicz as he used to be the main illustrator, so now he is a major tarnish or a disastermaker, I do not know what to call it, the herald of this lie of Smoleńsk: sooner, Mr Macierewicz, you will prove the existence of a monster with Loch Ness, you will catch him and bring him, than you will prove two explosions of an airplane under Smoleńsk. [[Applause]] And in general there is still e.g. the liquidation of the National Defence Academy. Well, that's also, I have to say, creative achievement. No one's ever dared to do that before. The last cases of university liquidation in Poland were March 1968, and then not universities were liquidated, but departments, e.g. sociology at the University of Warsaw. Macierewicz, eliminating the Academy of National Defence, doing personal cleaning, actually fits into the worst-case scenario, continues, to some extent the work of Władysław Gomulka, Mieczysław Moczar, people who are responsible for March 1968. The dissolution of the university only to throw out some people, and to hire others, personal cleansing, penalising prosecutors for having the honesty and courage to tell Smolensk lies, is a black chapter in the Polish army. Macierewicz writes a black chapter in the Polish army, comparable to participation in the martial law of the Polish army. And it will be remembered to Macierewicz forever. And among others. Therefore, it should stop as soon as possible. perform this function. [[Applause]] And he talks too much at all. You can say that Macierewicz generally speaks too much. In this regard, he evidently did not take into account the statements of one Asian dictator. I'm even ashamed to say what kind, because in this company, however, Macierewicz does not deserve to perform. But that's what the dictator said: don't say much, because you can make mistakes. When Macierewicz enters the podium, I remember that sentence, and Macierewicz always says too much. And always where it is, it ends in some kind of split. There you go - this is also probably the only politician of this kind that Macierewicz touched, he wasted - he was in KOR, he broke there, and today he hates his friends most from KOR. He was in the ZCHN - I will not describe the feelings that my humble person has, but these are not brotherly feelings, I must say. He was. [[Joy in the Chamber]] in the ROP with Jan Olszewski, and I must say that, to put it mildly, the relationship between you and him is not very good. Besides, the last resolution of the ROP by Jan Olszewski, as we know, was, as far as I know, the one about the exclusion from the ROP of Jan Olszewski. So that you gentlemen are enough, you can say, they don't like it. In short, Macierevich in the ROP broke up. He was in the Polish Family League. Relations with the League of Polish Families, with Roman Giertych are widely known. He was in the Catholic-National Movement, where he also broke up. I think if Macierewicz had found himself in heaven, he would have broken up in the Holy Trinity. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] High Izbo, so let's be careful. One last thing. I wanted to skip it at all, because there was this accusation that the Platform was acting under the influence of the media: there is an article in the newspapers, they have no arguments, they take the papers, they run to the Sejm with them. That's not true. That's an absolute addition. However, please note that, after all, we are talking about a man who, as I have already signaled at the beginning, has made the matter of the agent a point of political existence. Macierewicz's political idea, in short, was: anyone who is connected with anything, with anything - we have an example of Prof. Chrzanowski, a hero who can be accused of anything, but not dishonesty - should leave politics. It's the clearest thing, so to speak, crystal-- whoever the agent papers are, they're out of politics. Well, if that's what anyone says, he should apply that principle to himself. And that's the only dimension I use. It's not going into any details about who he met when he was in the party, and so on. But there are some facts. I won't give names because I don't think the Polish Sejm is the best place to name agents or former associates. It's about phenomenon, it's about principle, it's not about people. At least he has formal contacts with one of the unmasked agents, because he's on the board of the foundation where they sit together, as stated in his annual accounts. I don't think it's true that he broke his contact, he didn't take that advice. The same man, the same agent, regularly writes in the Voice, the Macierewicz organ, and one of the companies in which the same agent is the vice president, bought in the Voice advertising for the sum of about 100,000. zł. True, these ads in the voice could not be found, and the voice, please state, is not very good writing, and finding advertising there is not particularly difficult, because it is not a magazine full of ads. If you run around the kiosks, you'll see that not every kiosk has a voice in the first place. So, in short, if you can't find advertising in the voice, it's suspected that it's not there. And if she's not there, there's a suspicion -- I'm not a specialist in these cases -- that we're dealing with some kind of abuse here -- it's about paying for something that wasn't done. One of the close associates and former Agent Macierewicz - these are important functions, this is the representative of the parliamentary list - he is the Vice President of the Change Party. The Change Party is proputinist, and recently one of her people has had serious legal problems. Another creator of this army - I don't know what to call it, since the word "forest" hurts someone, because at the meeting of the PiS committee it hurt very much, but they left, so they can't hear - the so-called. The forest army, is also associated with the party Change. He is an active activist and supporter of President Putin. such texts: I perfectly understand Putin, and Ukraine, the Ukrainian state is fascism at our gates. The government in Kiev is a military hunt, etc. So this, ladies and gentlemen, is a man who works closely with the MON and who has a function in the Ministry, because this army is under the Ministry of Defense. There are many other examples, I've only given a few. So the surroundings of Macierewicz, to put it mildly, are quite fatal. At the same time, the same Macierewicz finds time and energy and sees the need for MON, who employs people for whom Putin is a good politician, and allies in Ukraine are fascists at our gates, to break up cooperation with the Polish Army's Union of Soldiers. The Polish Army Soldiers' Union are the thousands or tens of thousands - please correct me as to how the club speech will be, probably tens of thousands - soldiers who were in our Polish Army, where I was too. I only served the rank of corporal, and I'm very sorry, but Napoleon was once a corporal. I'm sure many of you in this army... This is the army. There was no other army. If someone is an army, like Macierewicz, dares to call the army non-Polish, and in the surroundings of Macierewicz there is a statement that this whole army is at all bad - he discriminates against them, broke their cooperation, pronounced out the premises - that is despicable. That's meanness. That's not enough, it's beating veterans. Although there are not many of them, but there are families, there are people who were bleeding in the Battle of Kolobrzeg, in the Pomeranian Wala, who died in Kępa Czerniakowska, at Budzyn and Dresden in the Second Army of the Polish Army. All these people's blood is as good as the blood spilled under Monte Cassino, under Ancona, under Arnhem, under Dunkirk, etc. [[Applause]] You can't divide Polish blood into better and worse. It is not possible for political reasons to divide into better and worse soldiers. This is another chapter of the disgrace that Antoni Macierewicz writes in front of us. Is it just a disgrace or a disgrace? But there is also a terrible doctrine that this gentleman was polite to formulate when sending soldiers to this battle, which... I mean, not a battle, I don't know what to call it. Every combat flight over Daesh's territory is a war. The plane could be shot down. But never mind. In any case, I must thank President Duda for another act of truthfulness, for which he is known, because he was kind to say in the campaign: I will never send a Polish army abroad. Mr Duda: Dhaka, Fallujah lies abroad in Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You take the map and you'll see. That's pretty far, Mr. President Duda, geography specialist. In short, it is sending soldiers to war, otherwise it is right - to be clear, after all, I can be accused of everything, but not of supporting Daesh, or so-called. The Islamic State - the justification was fatal. It was this: we will help you in the South, as NATO needs help in the South, but you will help us in the East, if we have problems with one, so to speak, of the neighbouring powers. I would say this: such justification, binding of the security of Poland, our important interests - after all, there are no jokes here, this is already about conflict at our borders, the existence of the Polish state - with whether we send the army somewhere or with any other condition is a big mistake, because from now on every action in our defence can always be conditional on something. Then there is no mandatory solution. It's just a very big relativism. I think our security is based on art. 5 treaty, it's NATO, and that's it, period. Adding anything to this is like adding any adjective to the word "democracy." The communists added the Socialist, PiS adds the PiS-owska. They're both worth each other, and most appropriate, the devil is worth it. [[Applause]] High Izbo! I think there's enough justification. I think that this is all, and many other things, what he has done for so many years, what he has done recently, what he says, how he behaves, how he behaves, these purgatory, how he throws people out, humiliation, release for political reasons, repression, the lies of Smolensk, all this makes me ask the High House very much that this irresponsible, evil, apathetic, harmful, incompetent - and many other adjectives, supposedly cannot be multiplied as many adjectives in his speech - the minister cancel as soon as possible, and I ask the High House to lay hands on this noble work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u11	I will now ask Mr Michał Jacha to present the opinion of the committee. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice enter the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the National Defence Committee held a debate... [[A brief debate.]] ...on the subject of accepting a motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz. On behalf of the committee, I have the honour to present the opinion of the National Defence Committee. Opinion of the Committee on National Defence on a parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz, print No. 662. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Following consideration of this request at its meeting on 5 July 2016 and discussion, the National Defence Commission decided to issue a negative opinion on the proposal submitted. The vast majority of Members voted against, the majority of those present at the committee meeting spoke of the lack of formal, substantive grounds to make such a request. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u13	Thank you, sir. At the moment, the President of the Council of Ministers, Ms Beata Szydło, asks for the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer to the paper version of the justification, because it is also scandalous, but shows less signs of madness. [[Applause]] [[What madness are you talking about?]] [[Voice from the room: Anthony's madness.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! There are moments, events that, despite political differences and disputes, connect. There are situations where you have to either say yes, we are in this challenge together, or just keep quiet so you don't disturb. In 3 days in Warsaw will be drawn a map of a safe world, a world that does not want war, does not want conflict, a world that wants security, which wants to build peace and peace. Delegates who come to the NATO summit, to meet allies, just want to build peace and peace, want common declarations and actions to guarantee these very important values for all of us. This is a very important event. This is a very important, strategic event, an event for which we are very much looking forward here in Poland, an event which will determine our safety, the security of our homeland, the safety of our compatriots, Poles, Poles, for the next years at this difficult and restless time. Building this secure order should be our common goal, all of us in this room. Despite the differences, despite political dispute, despite current political disputes, we should first of all think about the fact that the safety of Polish citizens is the most important, that this is our strategic goal, our most important priority, our main task. And there shouldn't be any difference of opinion, nor should there be any doubt. We politicians share our views, but we should always have concern for the common good, concern for Poland, Poles, peace and security of citizens. [[Voice from the room: Constitution.]] We are jointly responsible for this, whether we rule or sit in opposition benches. Not so long ago, in the not so distant past, when an armed conflict broke out with our eastern neighbours, in Ukraine, in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, then Prime Minister Tusk convened a meeting in which he participated, among others. President Jarosław Kaczyński, opposition leader. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] He was there despite the difference, contrary to political disputes and despite the fact that it was against the party business. But it was because Poland and the safety of Poles are the most important. [[Applause]] This is a pattern that should always be remembered and replicated in these most important matters. [[Applause]] But it's not today. It's not like that today. The fact that these obvious truths, these obvious things, must be reminded in the Polish Parliament today is simply incomprehensible, even embarrassing. Unfortunately, it is because of the opposition that the Civic Platform removed from power three days before the NATO summit that we need to deal with the motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, who will represent the Polish state at this summit. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] This must be said clearly and firmly: this proposal is an unacceptable attempt to undermine confidence in the Polish state. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] This is an attempt to undermine trust in the Polish state in such an important time for us, Poles. Unfortunately, not only is the moment when the application is submitted, but also the basis for it is embarrassing. It is absolutely necessary not to understand the seriousness and responsibility of the state to submit an application so unwise, so obscene in its basis at such an extremely important time for Poland. [[Applause]] It is worth recalling this basis, the basis which you have written down by the state to justify your request. This is based on the text in the newspaper, which has been openly fighting Law and Justice for years, and now is fighting the government created by the Law and Justice which it has received from the nation, from its citizens a sovereign and democratic mandate to take responsibility for Poland. This text is sucked out of its finger, unbelievable text, slanderous, insinuating, full of manipulation. His integrity was referred to by the Minister of National Defence in his statement. He did it so he wouldn't leave these lies and slanders without correcting them. I will no longer do this in detail, because I will refer to these questionable content and their author simply not worth it. But I'm going to refer to the thesis that you from the opposition are trying to build, and to who you're building this miserable alliance with. Well, you want to cancel Minister Macierewicz on the basis of a text based on the stories of a former PRL officer, posted in the newspaper, which has been the first bastion blocking the mirroring and decommunization for years. [[Applause]] That has to be said out loud at last. For years, this newspaper has employed Mr.Maleszka, a traitor and a secret paid collaborator of the Polish People's Republic's services, fully aware of the wrongs, evils and injustices that this man committed. [[Applause]] [[And Peterovich is what?]] Today, the same newspaper with the support of the opposition from the Platform hits the man who sacrificed his life to fight against people like Malek. [[Applause]] He fought against all the nasty evil that the Security Service agent of the Polish People's Republic carried with him. Today, with this newspaper, you're standing on the side of Urban and Malek. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Antoni Macierewicz has always, throughout his life, been with those who protested against injustice, taking the dignity of Poles. Antoni Macierewicz was actively rebelling, fighting against those who were fighting workers in Ursus, in Radom, in Płock, against those who killed the dead. B. Fr. Jerzy Popiełuszka, Grzegorz Przemyk or Stanisław Pyjas. Antoni Macierewicz was always on the side of truth and good against evil. [[Applause]] He had the courage when many did not have the courage. He was always telling the truth and always striving for it. But the pursuit of the truth is so strongly attacked by those who fear the truth, who are ashamed, who do not want to know the truth. [[Applause]] This conclusion is precisely the fear of the truth, the fear of the environments of people who have not behaved properly, the fear of those who have committed wickedness and lies for their interests. Today, in formulating this conclusion, the Platform stands in equal ranks with the conservators of the rotten lie of the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]] You're on the side of Tiny. You stand on the side of liars and traitors and people without honor. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] The word that adequately defines what this proposal is today is is the word "sham." You should be ashamed of yourselves. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] So I'll remind you. Who do you want to judge today? Recently, a few days ago, we celebrated the anniversary of June 1976. This anniversary is the best time to remind Antoni Macierewicz's life and merit. Today, using statements of the environment, which for years has defended communist apparatusers and security associates, you are attacking a man who has practically devoted his entire life to fighting the soulless communist system. At a time when the most trivial opposition to the power of the Polish People's Republic threatened with draconian punishment, terror or harassment, and even loss of health and life, Antoni Macierewicz had enough courage and determination and honor to resist it. [[Applause]] He was involved in aiding the victims of December 1970. Later, 1976 - a great determination to turn a spontaneous impulse of helping workers into something formalized. The Committee for the Defence of Workers was established and this was due to Minister Macierewicz. Publishing a letter, arrests, hungers, constant struggle, sacrifice, aid to the repressed and above all limitless courage in the face of the Polish People's Republic of terror and suffering that the Communists have caused hundreds of Poles. In war, he was interned, after pacification of Gdańsk Shipyard, the strike committee, which he was a member of. After 1989, he continued to devote his life to Poland and public activities. Minister of Government Jan Olszewski, co-founder of many initiatives and projects. Antoni Macierewicz showed courage, stubbornness and limitless sacrifice for the general good from his early years. Antoni Macierewicz could divide us all with honor cards of his life. The justification of your request, the moment you submit it, and the absolute contempt for the accomplishments of Antoni Macierewicz is your disgrace, which is even difficult to describe. [[Applause]] Today Antoni Macierewicz is the Minister of National Defence and is attacked by people who have done virtually nothing for eight years to develop and repair the Polish army. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] You are pressing charges and slandering Minister Macierewicz, who today must correct your embarrassing mistakes and scandalous omissions. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] You could tell us for hours what condition you left the Polish Army in. I could talk for a long time about how you violated the military funding discipline, how scandalously you conducted the modernisation of the army. It is enough to say that in 2010 and 2015 none of the programs which were to modernise the Polish army were completed. You can talk about Gawron's corvette for a long time, where you pumped in a huge amount of money and ended up as a patrol ship. [[Applause]] The underinvestment of mechanized troops, the scale of delays in the implementation of modernization programmes is unfortunately the daily life of the army under your leadership. There are many examples of this, because there are few areas in Poland that have been neglected by the Platform and PSL governments, such as security and the state of the army. [[A voice from the hall: That's a lie!]] However, I would like to talk about these examples which show how much Minister Antoni Macierewicz has done in eight months. In 8 months Antoni Macierewicz has done more than you have done in 8 years for the Polish army. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[All you have to do is be honest.]] I will mention only the most important things at the moment, because these achievements and achievements are indeed very much. But it is worth recalling that within these eight months a 12-year contract service limit has been lifted by private soldiers, which was well received by those soldiers who want to remain in service... [[Voice from the room: PLN 10 million.]] ...and meet the conditions. The development of the Polish defence industry was really taken up. New orders in Polish factories and taking up important programs... [[Voice from the room: What?]] ...it's an important impulse for our industry. [[Voice from the room: Any indications...]] [[You have to go to committee more often.]] From the beginning of 2017 they will begin [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] supplies of air defense systems of short range Poprad produced in the Polish factory. The acquisition of systems was started, thanks to which 200 Rosomak combat trucks, uselessly standing in the manufacturer's warehouse [[Game in the O.R.]] ... [[You weren't on the committee.]] ...equipped will be... [[Tom, shame.]] ...the missing communications systems and the troops. It was decided to accelerate the purchase of lobster systems, hubic Krab systems and impact drones. The first rounds of mortars were purchased: Cancer and haubic Krabs from the steelworks Wola. The Minister's decisions enabled the integration of the Polish arms industry into the Polish-French-German technical dialogue on the joint development and production of a new MBT class tank. It was decided to save the shipbuilding industry working for the Navy. The process of bankruptcy of the Navy Shipyard in Gdynia was halted in the last phase and preparation of the repair process was started. Examples of the actions of Minister Macierewicz can be mentioned for a very long time, but in the context of the negligence of the last 8 years and their current repair, I would also like to give another example which shows how your neglected field can be repaired and implemented in a short time. Something you, the state, didn't want to do, couldn't do for eight years, Minister Macierewicz started to realize in eight months. It's about territorial defense, the one so ridiculed here from this speaker and by the state in the clowns of territorial defence. Before the Platform and PSL coalition took power there were plans to establish a territorial defence of the country, there were real attempts and first implementations related to it. Unfortunately, the power of Platform and PSL has abandoned this project. You have focused on the National Reserve Forces, which do not serve as territorial defence. It was a fiasco. For eight years, you have not been able to create an effective concept of territorial troops. Even in the face of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the Russian Federation's application of the hybrid war, you have not decided in response to the creation of an effective, organised territorial defence in Poland. Poland was losing years, was wasting potential and involvement of shooting and paramilitary organizations. [[Applause]] Today you are criticizing the minister who, after taking over the department in eight months, designed a new, so necessary formation. Work has been started on organisation, training, formation of effective troops for weapons and mobility issues. Work has been done on details and resolving all problematic issues. For eight years, you couldn't, or worse, didn't want to do anything to build territorial defense. Minister Macierewicz took this action and already in June during the Anakonda maneuvers the first divisions of the future territorial defence took part in the exercises and cooperated with the Polish Army. But we also need to talk about a few other issues, some other important issues that Antoni Macierewicz took during his activity. I have already talked about the fact that Minister Antoni Macierewicz spent his whole life following the courage, the interests of the state, taking the side of the weaker, the suffering, the persecuted. All his life, he was primarily based on the principle of honor and pursued the truth. And when in 2010 after the Smolensk catastrophe the Polish state lacked the courage to come to the truth, Antoni Macierewicz was the one who claimed this truth... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Lie!]] ...which led to the fact that today we are very close to explaining the real causes of the Smolensk disaster. A brave man, an uncompromising man, a man who can always stand on his homeland's side. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important events in the history of the Polish state - NATO summit, the summit of the alliance, which will be held here in Warsaw, which will not only determine the security of Poland, which will not only decide how the political map of the world will be arranged in the coming decades, the map of the safe world, but also this is an event that shows the role and importance of the Polish state. This is an event that should also focus all of us Polish citizens around it, because in 3 days something really important will happen in Warsaw. And all people, and above all politicians, who have responsibility for the state, who understand the seriousness of the situation, also understand that our shared responsibility is to make this event, this NATO summit run in a calm atmosphere... But also above all, to show the seriousness of the Polish state. Yesterday I had the opportunity with Minister Macierewicz to be at the National Stadium. We were looking at the last preparations that were being conducted there. I had the opportunity to speak to Mrs Würtz, who is the closest associate of the NATO Secretary-General. And she said, "No mountain has ever been anywhere." as well prepared as the one here in Warsaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And I would like to say this to you first of all in the Platform benches, because you spent a lot of time, energy, to tell Poles to tell the public that this summit in Warsaw will not take place, that for some reason, we do not know what, will be taken from Poland. [[Why would you lie to me like that?]] You spent a lot of energy and time on trips to various European institutions to slander Poland and the Polish government. [[Applause]] So I want to tell you today that the summit will be held. [[You should go to confession.]] He's perfectly prepared. At the summit there will be very important decisions for Poland. [[Voice from the room: Thanks to President Komorowski.]] There will be breakthrough decisions that will make Poland safer, that Poles will be safer, and this is due to Minister Antoni Macierewicz. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, when I spoke to my fellow ministers, one of them said that at the moment there is no good news for Poland, because Poland has an irresponsible anti-state opposition. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's obviously... [[Horrible, horrible.]] You may laugh, but for the ruling opposition, and above all for... [[Voice from the room: What year was it?]] ...the democratic principles of your functioning, the role of the opposition is extremely important and we would like to say... [[Arrest everyone.]] ...that the opposition should be responsible, should be an opposition which not only reviews the actions of the rulers, but prepares programs for Poland, prepares for..., wants to participate, constructively participate in the debate on the future of Poland. Today we have an embarrassing proposal, made by the opposition, which should hardly be commented on by us. [[Then don't comment on it.]] [[How do you address the Prime Minister?]] First of all, this conclusion should be silenced, but there have been so many false slanders, lies, humiliating and striking. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] At Minister Antoni Macierewicz's office, I couldn't not speak out of that speaker. There are words that for every soldier, but also for a patriot, are a bushel: God, honor, homeland. [[Applause]] Antoni Macierewicz has God and his homeland in his heart. Antoni Macierewicz is a man of honor, and it is my honor that he is the Minister of National Defence in the government which I have the honour of directing. Thank you very much. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u15	Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, as corrected, go ahead. [[Voice from the hall: Targowica!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to this pean in honor of Macierewicz, and I think I also... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[The corrigendum is to be.]] Don't interrupt. ...good harvest will be due to Mr Macierewicz this year. [[The corrigendum is to be corrected, Mr. Marshal.]] But I don't really understand, because the Prime Minister... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't yell. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The voice from the hall: Then why do you have to straighten it out?]] There's no way, Marshal, against the patriotic screams to speak. I'd like to ask you to bring the patriots to order a little bit. [[Apologize to the Prime Minister.]] I was gonna say we didn't... In the least I did not address the issue of Macierewicz's past. He wrote down a nice card, no one's denying it. [[What do you mean, no?]] First of all, he's not the only one. Secondly, he crossed that card by breaking it up in the NRA. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, but...]] But on what grounds, Prime Minister... Quiet, sir. Don't yell. [[Voice from the room: But this was supposed to be a corrigendum.]] Sir, can't you even hear two words of truth, or are you so afraid of Kaczyński? Then go to another row. [[You can't be listened to.]] [[Voice from the room: corrected, Marshal.]] I have to say... On what basis does the Prime Minister say that Macierewicz was always on the side of truth and good? When he hurt Professor Chrzanowski... [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]] ...or when he made false lists of agents when he lied about Smolensk... [[Correction!]] ...when he accused innocent people, he was on the side of truth and good, too? [[Applause]] Nobody's denying credit, let's not discuss the past... [[Voice from the room: This was supposed to be a corrigendum.]] ...this past, to put it mildly, on the Platform we have better than in the PiS, because the degree of stubbornness you have... [[You don't have a voice.]] What? Don't you have people from the P.A.P.R.? And Czabański and Targalski and Jasiński? You don't? What about the You don't? That's enough. [[Voice from the room: Rzepliński! Rzepliński!]] [[Voice from the room: Where is the correction? That's not a correction.]] The correction is when you attack. I say, but, sir, I won't yell. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The whole PiS club. In short, I ask the Prime Minister to refer in substance to the charges, not to repeat clichés and lies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u17	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a The Rules of Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Skurkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[We don't take prisoners.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Before I refer to the proposal submitted by the Civic Platform Club, I would like to refer to the rapporteur's speech, which, here in this Chamber, he called the constitutional minister, the Minister for National Defence a madman. These words from this speaker should not be said, Mr Niesiołowski. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] How dare you talk like that? Don't you look in the mirror shaving in the morning? [[Applause]] Those words from this speaker should never be said. [[What about the ones you just gave?]] Minister, I am very sorry for the unworthy of a Member. [[To the ethics committee.]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have the most important event ahead of us. Experts believe this is the most important event after the Cold War. We are proud that it will take place in Poland. The NATO summit, the summit of the North Atlantic Pact, will be attended by more than 4 000. persons. The delegations of 54 countries and 11 international organisations will arrive. There will be 18 presidents, 21 prime ministers, 41 foreign ministers, 38 national defence ministers. This will be a special event in history, special decisions will be made for the security of our country, and we in Parliament, at the request of the total opposition, are examining the proposal for the cancellation of the Minister of National Defence - the Minister of National Defence, who is the best minister of the white-red team Beata Szydło. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The actions that were undertaken from the very beginning by Minister Antoni Macierewicz were directed to repair what you destroyed for eight years. [[Yes, sir.]] You have deprived our country, you have deprived us of our defence capabilities as Poles. [[Yes, sir.]] We're rebuilding it right now. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion should never take place three days before the summit. This proposal is compromising the Civic Platform as a political class. This is a request made against the Polish state's right, and we must speak about it loudly here in Parliament. [[Applause]] These actions, your actions are directed against Poland, Poles, as well as the security of our country and nation. [[The market.]] You're the marketman. [[Yes, sir.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It is important at the moment to talk about the achievements of those 8 months when Minister Antoni Macierewicz is running the Ministry of National Defence. All we have to do is raise a few points here from this speaker. Signing a series of contracts for the purchase of state-of-the-art modern weapons for the Armed Forces. Beneficial changes concerning regulations based on which Polish soldiers, Polish troops, operate. Creation of territorial defence troops. Of course, and a fruitful international consultation, which brings and brings very important decisions in the international arena for Poland and Poles. These over 20 foreign visits by Minister Antoni Macierewicz during these eight months, these innumerable consultations, these numerous meetings show how much work is put into this so that we can feel safe. Prime Minister! High Izbo! Antoni Macierewicz in his work does much to restore the ethos of a Polish soldier to restore respect for his uniform, [[Applause]] to also restore the meaning of the words that are so important to us, to our fathers, to our grandparents, who appear on the banners: God, honor and homeland. Those words you've been trying to erase for eight years. Yes, the Civic Platform tried to erase those words, but you failed. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to stress what I said at the beginning again. Antoni Macierewicz is the best minister of national defence after 1989, is a very important link of the white-red team, which introduces changes and order after the failed governments of the Civic Platform. I would like to assure you from this speaker that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice as one husband [[♪ The bell ♪]] will vote against the motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u19	Thank you. The floor will be taken... [[Just a little bit more corrigendum.]] ...as corrected by Mr Stefan Niesiołowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u20	Excuse me. I know it's annoying when someone takes a voice too often, but I can't, High Izbo, leave it unanswered. Mr. Speaker! I don't want to start a discussion, she's in the media, I don't inspire her... [[Voice from the hall: Don't be ridiculous and stop.]] ...of Mr Macierewicz's intellectual abilities, but I didn't use the word "warrior," so I would ask... I told you, I think. It's not the same. I didn't say Macierewicz was crazy, I didn't say Macierewicz was crazy, I just said, "I think he's crazy, and it's not the same, sir." [[Look in the mirror.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u21	Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Semoniak, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Last Saturday, President Jarosław Kaczyński pointed out the three worst ministers of the government to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. There's a lot of competition here. However, there was a shortage in these three brick leaders of the ranking of the worst ministers - the Minister of National Defence. Even if the criteria of the President, who criticized the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for too slow staff changes, were wrongly taken into account, Minister Macierewicz left the generals appointed at my request by President Bronisław Komorowski. And, of course, he did the right thing. Few of this, in May, was re-appointed for the next three-year term of the first soldier, chief of the General Staff. Also the general responsible for modernization is the general appointed in our time, and all the programs that the Prime Minister was polite to tell you about are decisions of our time. [[Voice from the hall: A good minister.]] How does this apply to Minister Macierewicz's statement about an army in a state of disaster? If that was the case, why the good continuation? [[Applause]] [[It's too bad you're not going to the field committee with us.]] The real problem is not what Minister Macierewicz does, because despite appearances outside media activities, he does very little. Sometimes it's even better, and sometimes it's bad, because important decisions don't make. Even your political and union facilities are lost in what will happen to helicopters, whether the Patriots are bad or good, because the essence of the problem is the complete unbelievableness of Antoni Macierewicz, who has been building his statements for years. How is the Polish Minister of Defence supposed to conduct talks with Germany if he once said that Germany had agreed in the whirlwind of the great Russian operation a giant trap that closed with the start of the TU-154 April 10th? What does it mean to call Minister Macierewicz on May 31 on TV Ukraine our ally? He's our neighbor, our partner, but not our ally. Doesn't the Minister of Defence know what the word "sojushnik" means, and what consequences could that have? How do our allies receive the statements of Minister Macierewicz of June 3 in Braniewo that soldiers of other nations, NATO countries could not have been invited and acted together with them before? How does this apply to thousands of allied soldiers practicing in Poland in 2014 and 2015 or NATO Steadfast Jazz exercises in autumn 2013? Do you really think that no one in the world is reading this or asking themselves what is happening to the Polish Minister of Defense? [[Applause]] That is why we are raising this issue on the eve of the NATO Summit. Allies should know that there are environments in Poland and citizens who are not indifferent to what is black and what is white, what is true and what is false, because the NATO summit is not the summit of Antoni Macierewicz. It does not play a major role there, contrary to the massive promotion. I say this as a participant in the role of Minister of Defence for the two summits. The president is the host. The Republic of Poland, together with the Secretary-General of NATO. Minister Macierewicz destroyed one fundamental thing in these difficult times: consensus on defence and security issues, which has been in force for a quarter of a century. It happened with the so-called. Audition. Instead, like other members of the government, he decided to abandon himself with a small lie, such as the golden Mercedes, or a big lie, like the lost 340 billion zlotys, he decided to basely attack his predecessors, accusing that Poland had been left defenseless. He, of course, quickly repaired the army, which embarrasses the thesis of defencelessness a few weeks earlier, but this declaration burned the bridges of consensus. I say this as a former minister who invited members of the PiS from the defence committee to the Ministry. Two times even Mr Antoni Macierewicz, and when PiS Members could not attend the defence committee for important reasons, I invited them all to talk to me about modernisation. [[Applause]] You can argue, you can criticize, but why use fire throwers against opponents? Where's that gonna lead us? Do you really want to take responsibility only for everything, for sending Polish soldiers to war without trying to dialogue with the opposition? President Schetin and I have publicly declared our willingness to cooperate on security issues, but if you do not want this cooperation, there is nothing we can do about it. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform Club is very negative Antoni Macierewicz as Minister of National Defence and will vote in favour of his dismissal. However, in allowing such a possibility that the biggest club would not agree to this conclusion, I would ask and urge you to repeat this operation, which you successfully performed twice last year, let's call it after the military operation "Kameleon" because it is about hiding Antoni Macierewicz from the elections and voters. [[Applause, ringtone]] Let him go at the NATO Summit on Friday and Saturday with an important inspection to the forest garrison. [[It's just embarrassing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u23	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u24	It's only two days, not long weeks. Put him away from NATO allies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u26	Do it for Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u27	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Jakubiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm not getting a divorce because it's basically simple. On the other hand, I have first of all resentment for the first bench of the Civic Platform, which has already gone, that it has appointed Mr Niesiołowski as rapporteur for this proposal, knowing and fully aware that it will be not a substantive, but an emotional speech. [[Applause]] You use people quite unnecessarily, because such a conclusion should be supported by a substantive justification, absolutely not something that can be called, I don't know, a bazaar discussion. I haven't found a single... I'll show you, I've memorized one sentence from all the speeches that I agree with. [[Niesiołowski was the head of the National Defence Commission for four years when you weren't in the Sejm.]] It is precisely because I was not in the Sejm that I would like to see such treatment of the Sejm, so that there should be no opinions ad personam here, only on the matter, and the matter is the Ministry of National Defence and the army of the Republic of Poland. These are so important things that you can't discuss with yourself, having personal problems with the Minister of National Defence. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are in a very important period of time. It's about the NATO summit. It is undoubtedly the idea and invitation of the Civic Platform, the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr Komorowski, here there is no doubt, but I remind you that you forgot to book a seat for this summit. [[That's not true.]] The National Stadium was designated, but no deadline. Unfortunately, in national defense... The National Defense Commission has been testing. Luckily, it worked. Today the main organizer is depreciated by you. I have no doubt you're doing this on purpose and premeditatedly. [[Headquarters.]] On the eve of the NATO Summit, you are depreciating the main organiser of this summit. I don't know what your goal is, because you seem kind of funny. [[Applause]] What I'm trying to say is that I agree with Mr. Niesiolovski, whom I very much appreciate. You said that Polish blood is equal in all dimensions, especially the one that was often senselessly wiped out during World War II. I would like to remind the whole Parliament of this, and today I call on the entire Parliament, based on this thesis, to hold a special session of Parliament on 11 July to celebrate the victims of genocide in Volyn. [[Applause]] Don't forget, if we don't take ourselves seriously, nobody will. We will not be taken seriously, which is the best proof that President Poroshenko stood here, and that is what he said about genocide: we forgive you. This is a clear example of how historical policy is treated in other countries. [[What does this have to do with Macierevich?]] So I want to say today: I admit that Polish blood weighs the same. We have other important things that we haven't been able to deal with in years, and we are dealing with a minister who appears to us as one of the best ministers in recent years, no matter what he said before. [[Applause]] I would like to tell Minister Macierewicz here, whose respect I have, too, is that I would very much like the Minister of National Defence to deal professionally only with the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Theories of the Smolensk bombings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u29	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru. [[Something about the grandstand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I find the moment of this debate unhappy, no matter how little responsibility the current Minister of Defence is, no matter how little security we feel with him, no matter how embarrassing he brings us than seriousness. [[Speak for yourself, Rysiek.]] For the Republic of Poland, for the sake of the Republic of Poland such proposals should not be submitted before the NATO Summit. It is in the interest of NATO and Poland that this summit, which will be in Warsaw in a few days, succeeds in showing that we are all as one fist, one for all and all for one in defence. It is very important to show that NATO will defend every Baltic country at any time, that it will stand in its defense, show that American divisions will be stationed in Poland rotationally. It is all in the interests of Poland, in the interests of Europe and in the interests of a world that loves freedom, democracy and peace. And that's what happened -- I'll admit, there's a little shame -- that right now The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Poland is Antoni Macierewicz. [[It's an honor.]] It is despite the fact that several days before the election Prime Minister Beata Szydło promised that she would not be Minister in her government. [[That's what the Platform said. Something new.]] However awkward with this, Mr Antoni Macierewicz will represent Poland at this summit. This is bad for Poland, but we cannot be offended. A more appropriate deadline for this debate would be after the summit. We could then also raise the question of whether this summit was a success for us, assess its organisation, not say that it is well organized now. We would also like to know the whole truth about NATO bases, whether they are permanent or rotating. We would like to know if we really need to send fighters to the area of armed conflict, why this has not been discussed with the opposition, why it has not been informed to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons for dismissing the Minister of National Defence are unfortunately a whole lot. First of all, he stopped modernization processes in the Polish army. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's been eight months of PiS rule, there's supposed to be a review, and there's no review. [[You're good.]] MON's budget for this year is PLN 36 billion - if you write down these figures, you would need it - and expenditure on military weapons this year is about PLN 9.5 billion. That's the acceleration according to the PiS. Poland's position in European structures is being undermined. I will remind you that Mr Macierewicz from the Seymary Speaker said last autumn that the Polish Armed Forces did not have the ability to secure, ensure the security of neither the territory of Poland nor the air area nor the key objects for the management of the state. [[It's true.]] The question is: How can the Minister of National Defence announce such a thing in the Sejm and encourage everyone... [[Everybody knows that.]] ...to show that we're unprepared? [[It's already been done.]] It weakens his position, is unworthy of the Minister, disqualifies him as Minister of National Defence. [[He should be lying, right?]] He founded the Academy of War Art instead of the Academy of National Defence. I'll remind you, when you don't know how to change staff, you change names. There is also the principle that in the Western world, which loves peace, there is no use of the word "war," there is no minister of war, but there is the minister of national defence. I see that Minister Macierewicz likes to go back to those dark times when there was a war atmosphere every day. The state praised the uprising of the territorial defense forces. The question is, why were these forces created? Is it to send them against demonstrators at a time of serious demonstration, to keep an eye on the interests of the PiS, to play with these forces like a boy soldiers? Soviet methods of recalling unit leaders and generals, Bolshewicko-Soviet, at night. I would like to remind you that the commander of the Garrison Warsaw, Mr Grudziński, was recalled during the night of March 4th to 5th, as well as the NATO Expert Counterintelligence Center was broken into at night. That's the standard. What was that all about? You guys were about the same thing as always, about staffing, jumping staff, taking over the gendarme at night. Smolensk recall calls. It is extremely despicable to use the memory of the victims of the Smolensk tragedy in such a cynical way for political purposes. Mr Macierewicz, unfortunately, is worthy of this cynical filth. Ladies and gentlemen, we find the deadline unhappy. We have fundamental reservations about the Minister. Every speech he makes is a fear that he'll be ready to start a conflict in a moment. I hope you're not performing today because you can scare the Poles. The term is wrong, the debate is wrong, but we cannot vote Neither this minister nor we can hold back. We will vote in favour of his cancellation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm afraid Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who didn't want him in the army, too... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u31	I'm afraid time is up, sir. Thank you kindly. [[You've surprised us so much.]] Please take the floor of Mr Paul Beda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! However, I think the most important event after the end of the Cold War was Poland's accession to NATO 17 years ago, not the nearby NATO summit. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, today we do not have to vote on the motion to dismiss Minister Antoni Macierewicz. It was only thanks to the Marshal of the Sejm that this point was introduced today, because according to the Rules of Procedure we might as well be sitting at the next session of the Sejm. [[Applause]] The request for cancellation of the Minister for National Defence shall be examined at the present meeting, not at any other meeting, due to the beginning of the NATO Summit. The ruling party thus wants to show the public that the opposition is a total opposition, very wrongly, because it is completely incomprehensible for us to proceed on the proposal before one of the most important events related to NATO. Perhaps the official position will be that the opposition, when making the above conclusion, is irresponsible for the fate of the country, and the ruling good change is a healthy force for Poland. In view of the above, I would like to stress that the request for an appeal could wait at least until the next session of the Sejm, during which the debate would be complemented by a review of the decisions that will be made at the summit, whether the eastern NATO flank will be protected by new bases, whether there will be stationary rapid response units, what has been achieved and what failures Poland has suffered during the NATO session. I would also like to stress that the motion for a vote of distrust should not take place, because Antoni Macierewicz, according to the assurances made during the campaign by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, was not to become a minister. It's just that the Law and Justice are lurking. Prime Minister Szydło said that Jarosław Gowin would be the head of the Ministry of National Defence. It should be noted that electoral fraud took place and that the Prime Minister misled Poles. And now a few more important points. The idea of territorial protection. Why do we have so few details about the whole shape and design of organizing such individuals? Is that how Minister Macierewicz wanted to create his political militia? Should we be afraid of something by now? Like you, you weren't supposed to be a minister, so two months ago you informed the public that no soldiers in the area of armed conflicts Poland would send. It is a fact that hundreds of Polish soldiers were sent by you to war yesterday. Poland does not need to prove that it is a good ally of NATO. We were in Afghanistan and Iraq. You keep talking about the necessity of NATO troops in Poland, at the so-called. East flank. I remind you that NATO troops have been present in Poland for 17 years. This is the Polish army. Unless you continue to claim that it is completely unprepared to defend Poland. Do you still think it was worth it at the so-called. Auditing slander the Polish army just to gain current political benefits? The Polish army should count at least 150 thousand. soldiers, that's the minimum - Antoni Macierewicz believes. The head of the MON is also of the opinion that NATO will now pursue a reprisal policy against Russia. Firstly, we should have a balanced and diplomatic foreign policy. Secondly, instead of engaging in military activities of more citizens of our country, we were supposed to arm and equip those who already serve their country. Despite the noisy announcements, no major decisions were made regarding flagship and key military systems and equipment. We are talking about anti-aircraft and missile defense, the program of the Vistula or his younger sister Narwi. There's a run-in with the Caracal helicopters, and the new submarines are missing. All of this is necessary and immediately needed by the Polish army. The Minister has stopped all weapons-related processes. These are examples of harmful actions that can lead to the defencelessness of the Polish state. Insulting the United States. People who built their country only in the 18th century will tell us what democracy is - mocked the Minister of Defence, referring to the critical opinions of the Americans about a good change. Opinion on Russia, putting Poland in a state of war. After Smolensk we can say that we were also the first great victim of terrorism in the contemporary conflict that is taking place in front of our eyes," said the head of MON Antoni Macierewicz during a lecture at Father Tadeusz Rydzyk's school. 6 months after taking over the defence department Antoni Macierewicz argued that Poland is safe. Your approach to defence and your political philosophy is best reflected in the symbolic [[♪ The bell ♪]] The exchange of the National Defence Academy for the Academy of War Arts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u33	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u34	Should we also expect a change in the name of the ministry? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u35	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mrs Margaret Zwierzan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Is it a coincidence that the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz, goes to our parliament two days before the NATO summit in Warsaw? I dare say that his aim is to weaken the position of the Polish Minister of Defence and the entire Polish delegation during the upcoming summit, important for Poland, Europe and the world, but - as you can see - not necessarily for some Members... [[On two hands!]] ...unless acting to the detriment of Poland is their conscious and intended purpose. The charges raised in the justification are equal to the sensations of the boulevard and cafe rumors, because the stigma of someone for having met a communist agent on his way, and raising such appalling accusations by the same people who, here in this room, have often glorified communist secret co-workers, is simply a denial of honesty. Inspired to submit this request, I believe, were events related to the organisation of the celebrations of Poznań's June and the exhibition of a military aide there. But what's wrong with that? As a volunteer of the Pomeranian Historical Initiative Foundation, I have been co-organizing various patriotic and historical events in Gdynia for years, and in the past we have often been denied military support from the Navy. Privately, we were informed that our patriotic celebrations were not in line with the political power of the time. That's what happened. It's different now. Navy soldiers, with whom I have participated many times in such celebrations, greatly appreciate the opportunity to publicly present themselves to the local community and show some of their skills. They are proud of the fact that their craftsmanship can be judged and usually applauded by the community for which they perform their service to which they have been called. It does not matter to the soldiers whether the parade assistant of honor is full in the square of Defilad, in the church during the solemn liturgy or during the last service in the cemetery. They usually carry out their tasks, and close contact with society is the way to regain respect and good image, which the Polish army has always enjoyed in the Polish people. This is a positive integration of the army into the society it serves, and for those who do not like such celebrations, I have one advice: you do not have to participate in them and no one will force you to do so. Circle of Messengers Free and Solidarni is outraged at the motion and is against this irresponsible vote of distrust. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u37	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The Civic Platform is an endgame party, and we all know that, when we submit a proposal directly before the NATO summit, [[Applause]] The Civic Platform said of itself: we are a frivolous party, and by sending this proposal by Mr Niesiołowski, the Platform stressed that it is a frivolous party. At such a time, such a debate, regardless of how we judge Minister Macierewicz, how we judge the NATO Summit, how we evaluate Polish involvement in the Middle East, is simply something deep, but it is deeply frivolous, indicating that the Platform has either lost or never had a state sense - simply the simplest, most elementary sense of the state. Going to the point. National security consists of two elements, two essential elements affected by the Ministry of National Defence. Of course, there are more of these elements if we look at foreign policy, economy, culture, morale of the nation and the army, but these two fundamental components that we can talk about in the case of the Ministry of National Defence in connection with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course the state of the army and national defence in the country and the issue of foreign policy and military policy, can be said in the international space. As far as this first thing is concerned, the National Movement has been talking about three components which should be made up of Polish security for many years. These three components are, first of all, from the lowest level, universal training in elementary education in secondary schools of all Polish youth - it should be connected even with obtaining identity cards; a young man who [[Applause]] he is 18 years old and wants ID, he has military training at county level [[Applause)]] The second element is universal territorial defence, also to a large extent, several hundred thousand, and the third component, whose reconstruction, I think, is the most advanced at the moment, is the issue of raising, of course, forming an army as a regular tactical union, which are able simply to take on a regular fight. And here we have to say a very important thing. Mr Niesiołowski, justifying the proposal, spoke about the fact that religious fanatics are being raised, that there are some values in the Polish Army. Well, Mr President, I would like to stress very strongly that I am afraid of an army that will base its morale on attachment to jobs and warm water in the tap, really. [[Applause]] The army must refer to the slogan: God, honor, homeland, must have high morale, must be... [[Don't wave your hand!]] ...very highly motivated just patriotically, nationally just, religiously just to make sense of the fight. Today's society [[Applause]] The Westerns have lost that sense of struggle and they're the ones who're losing. We can't go this way. Ladies and gentlemen! The second element, which is a strategic element - here there is fundamental disagreement as regards the policy pursued by the government by Prime Minister Szydło. The National Movement sees the situation of Poland as difficult, but giving some possibilities. Today, after Brexit, after the Brexit referendum, and not, as Mr Petru noted, after the United Kingdom left the European Union, because it will take a few long years to read about it in economic writings, the situation is obviously not easy, but offers some opportunities, provided that we keep two things. We will, first of all, arm ourselves to the power - yes, today it is a requirement of the Polish state right: to arm ourselves to the power in each of the three pillars of which I have spoken. [[Applause]] - Secondly, we will stay away from all the plates of tectonic international geopoliticals on which there are conflicts between the powers - do not push into the Middle East, do not push into Ukraine, do not push anywhere where it is unnecessary, not necessary. Yes, we should be away from these tectonic plates, we should not be driving on this American bumper, the bumper of the American vehicle first and the password A strategic situation in which we must compete with Germany in the face of Brexit, in the face of competition in the European Union on the one hand and, on the other hand, we have a very offensive diplomatic policy in the Russian Federation, and we believe in the Anglo-Saxon guarantees, this situation has already taken place in the last century of our history. This is not a good situation. If in one of the two important directions, whether German or Russian, we start some kind of political offensive, then we need somewhere else just to patronize this offensive as much as possible. And it should be the Polish right state - not to push into international fights, into war fights. The combination of this component with the Polish armor component, the reinforcement of society at every stage - here I appeal to the PiS, so that it does not fear access to weapons, the strengthening of society - raising society will bring success to the Polish army, will ensure Polish security. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u39	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Klawiter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The right of the Republic of Poland considers the application for the cancellation of the Minister of National Defence of Mr Antoni Macierewicz to be incompatible with the Polish state's right. Regardless of the motives behind this proposal, submitting it immediately before the NATO Summit weakens our country's position in the world, weakens its negotiating position at this NATO Summit. This is an act to the detriment of Poland. I appeal to the applicants for caution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u41	Thank you, sir. The Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, asked for the floor. You're welcome, Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[And where does the applicant's representative go?]] [[He's coming out.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just say a few words in connection with the motion to dismiss the Minister for National Defence, which was formulated and presented today. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for her speech, for her speech in defence of the Polish state and the Polish army, for her speech in defence of the Polish... [[Voice from the room: Bravo...]] ...national interest, [[Applause]] for speaking in the name of everything for every Pole, and especially for a Member, especially for those who were elected as a representative of the nation, should be the most important - dignity, honor and security of the Polish people. Thank you very, very much, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Within the course of this talk were words about me directly, undoubtedly words far beyond my merit and what I have done in my life. [[Voice from the room: Oh, ho, ho...]] I thank the Prime Minister for these words, but I am aware of how many people in Poland live today - many unknown people, many people who have been despised, who have been pushed to a margin that no one wants to remember - who incomparably deserve to be reminded, praised, dignity and honors. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] But I repeat: These are the words that belong to the thousands of nameless people who have passed through health pathways, thousands of people going through internships and prisons, thousands of whom I never wanted to remember which people she was playing against... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...to whom she practiced politics... [[Stop it.]] ...his leader, the newspaper that called Kiszczak and Jaruzelski men of honor. Tonight, you guys, one more time. [[Applause]] You recall these words and this way of doing things. Indeed, you have something to be ashamed of. [[Applause]] It seems that two words should also be said in relation to the person whom the Civic Platform considered appropriate to push to represent her today. You have indeed chosen a special moment for this purpose. It is possible to discuss the importance of the NATO Summit, which will take place in Poland in two days' time in Warsaw, in a fearless city, in a city that paid with the hecatombs that were murdered for you to be here, in this room, and for the world to enjoy freedom. [[Voice from the room: What about you?]] [[What about ……]] And in 2 days here there will be an event that will guarantee the security of Poland and the whole team of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, a summit for which we have paid for many sufferings, years of efforts and independence efforts of the whole nation. Until then, Poland, and yes, was in NATO, only it was more of a journalistic argument invoked than a real presence guaranteeing us safety. Because over the years, the Civic Platform has agreed to make our presence a kind of appearance just to make it a country that... [[What appearance?]] ...has the right to veto against Polish security. This country was Russia. And you guys approved of this situation where outsiders... [[What are you talking about, man?]] ...the power may have decided whether or not there will be allied troops. [[What about the missile shield?]] It's changing. [[Applause]] Since this week, since the NATO summit in Poland and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe, we will be able, if we wish, to station allies... [[They've been here two years.]] [[Who did this?]] ...capable of immediate combat action. I don't even... [[Why, did you do this?]] ... You have raised such a request. [[That's not true.]] Not to mention you haven't taken any action to that extent. [[Lie!]] And today you consider the most appropriate moment to attack the Minister of Defence of the National Law and Justice of the Government of the Republic of... [[Laws and Justice...]] ...because this government has led to a fundamental change in the geopolitical situation of Poland and ensures its security. [[Applause]] That's the real reason for your attack. You might wonder what the real intentions of this attack are. One wonders whether there is only a phobia of individual people in its sources, whether there is the burning of a man who once, a long time ago, was considered to be a courageous anti-communist, and today repeats the most vile words of Urban and the People's Tribune. [[Applause]] Does this change correspond to your political intentions? Does the Civic Platform, which once believed that it was also derived from Solidarity, want to show Urban's face to Poles today? That's your intention? [[Applause]] But there are also important issues in this whole matter. There are issues that relate to the state of the Polish army. Yes, they are worth talking about seriously. They are at the root of the decisions I make at the Ministry of National Defence, at the source of the security policy led by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, led by President Duda, led by the entire great patriotic coalition focused on Law and Justice. [[What kind of patriotic? PZPR.]] What is the essence of things? The essence of the matter is that you rolled up an army, destroyed an army, thought that the army wasn't needed in Poland because you thought that for the next... [[Mr. Marshal, this is bullshit.]] ... There will be no war for 20 years. You've been basing on your relationship... [[That's bullshit.]] ...to the Polish army on misdiagnosis, misunderstood geopolitical situation and looked at foreign advice and foreign delusions. [[Voice from the room: KGB.]] This was the reason that the Polish army systematically removed and reduced. You've been blocking the possibility of the promotion of the Petty Officers. You set limits on the possibility of promoting officers, removing professional soldiers, those who are the foundation of every army, private soldiers, because you thought experienced soldiers were unnecessary. [[After seven months, there's something to know.]] And from schools, the ability to create real sources... [[He doesn't know anything, he never knew.]] ...the supplies for the Polish army were removed by the most patriotic youth who came together and fell into the army... [[Speaking of removals, AON employees.]] ...and to defend the country. [[Applause]] Today, in the most offensive way, in the most despicable way you insult these officers and soldiers... [[What are you talking about?]] ... who report to the fifth type of Armed Forces, which are the territorial defence units of the country, the type of Armed Forces, which is in all NATO armies. Only you eliminated them in Poland, only you today concentrate your... [[Bullshit.]] ...attack on these young men, on these officers, on these soldiers... [[You don't know what you're running, man.]] ...who, seeing the threat around Poland, stand up for an appeal to the Polish army, wanting to serve with their efforts and determination. Aren't you really ashamed? [[Applause]] [[What about you?]] [[It would be good to know something about the Polish Armed Forces.]] The number of lies, absurdities, misrepresentations that fell here in this Chamber, and before the meeting of the Committee on National Defence from the mouth of your representatives, exceeds all imaginations and even the People's Tribune would not be ashamed of such a group of absurdities. [[Ha, ha, ha!]] [[The voice! What about that ad in the voice?]] But I'm only gonna bring up one lie that shows how false you want to introduce yourselves to the public. Here was a year ago the then head of Polish diplomacy, Mr Schetyna today, committed to our American allies that Poland would send a military contingent to the Middle East, that Poland would send F-16 planes to the Middle East, and did not keep this commitment. I have called upon the possibility of sending our soldiers in a very limited number and only on a patrol mission, only on a training mission. Mr Schetyn, as a representative of the Civic Platform, was at the meeting of the National Security Council, as was Mr Petru, as was the representative of the Polish People's Party, as were the representatives of all parliamentary clubs. And you dare now claim that the decisions made by the President of the Republic were outside your back? [[Applause]] Do you dare lie to the House that you didn't know anything about it? [[Applause]] I thought, High Izbo, there was a measure of lying... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] ...the measure of falsehood and the measure of cowardice. [[Oh, dear.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no such measure because the Civic Platform has even exceeded the experience of the PZPR. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u43	Thank you, Minister. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 41 hours 11 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. First of all, I would like to welcome a delegation of Polish children from Kharkov. [[Members get up, give a round of applause]] Welcome. Welcome to the humble halls of the Polish Sejm, the Polish Sejm. The formal proposal was made by Mr Grzegorz Schetyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u44	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry that so many lies haven't come out of this podium for a very, very long time. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And that's a lie. Lying. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] I want to say yes: of course, it is not true that I agreed as Minister of Foreign Affairs to send Polish troops. This is a lie and you know it, Minister Macierevich. You're lying. You won't find my decision or that statement anywhere. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u45	I'd like a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u46	Two. Since the RCN meeting - and I am addressing the Prime Minister, Minister Waszczykowski, President of Kaczyński, you were at this meeting - are secret, please, and you are lying because there was a conversation about sending planes, I was talking about it and the Prime Minister knows it... [[Voice from the room: Without that finger.]] ...please tell your minister not to lie and cheat. [[Applause]] And I demand it... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And I demand that the minutes of this meeting be presented to the Special Services Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u47	This is not a formal conclusion. [[Voice from the room: This correction was.]] There you go, Mr Joachim Brudziński with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request for a break and a convening of the Senior Convention. I would like to ask you, during the Senior Convention, to make the representative of the Civic Platform aware of... [[Name.]] ...that this is an extremely, extremely despicable statement, which came from the speaker of this Sejm, that here is the Law and Justice, that Minister Antoni Macierewicz divides the blood of Polish soldiers into a better and worse one, calling here supposedly, putting words into the mouth of Minister Antoni Macierewicz, which never fell, that here are soldiers who spilled blood for Poland under Lenino, under Budzyn, under Axes, pushing Oder or finally breaking the Wał Pomorskie... [[Now don't cover Macierevich' lies.]] ...is something so disgusting that it can't even fit in the head. And the Civic Platform, Mr Niesiołowski, I would like to remind you that when it was the 70th anniversary of digging up the border post over Odra in Czelin, then the president of the Civic Platform Bronisław Komorowski... [[President of Poland.]] ...and you, colleagues from the Civic Platform, have refused the patronage of honor for this ceremony. [[Voice from the hall: Disgrace.]] [[Mr. Marshal, this is not a formal conclusion.]] Soldiers 1. The Polish People's Army remembers this. And these discourses, and those lies which Mr Niesiołowski made here, should be branded. [[Why isn't the marshal responding?]] Law and Justice, Antoni Macierewicz respectfully approaches the blood of every Polish soldier. Thank you kindly, High Izbo. [[Applause]] [[You're lying. You're lying. Why are you lying?]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u49	We're in item one of the agenda. As corrected by Mr Tomasz Semoniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I refer to the words of the Minister of National Defence on the NATO Summit, reminding - you can never see enough - that it was Bronisław Komorowski and the government of the Platform that invited to this summit to Poland. I also urge you not to give in to your own propaganda about this summit. He's important, he's good, but don't tell everyone that decisions that will be made, which are already decided, about a thousand soldiers in a rotating battalion group is a Copenhagen breakthrough. Previously, decisions were made about the missile shield in Redzikow, we have a constant presence of the American air force in Łask, and since 2014, since the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, thousands of soldiers have been practicing on Polish football fields. The world hasn't started since Minister Antoni Macierewicz took his role. [[Applause]] [[It started for Poland.]] [[Bravo!]] For example, keep in mind our allies who read and hear this. It was said that we were in NATO on paper. How does this apply to the thousands of Polish soldiers who served in Afghanistan and Kosovo? Were they on paper? [[Applause]] [[But no reciprocity.]] American, Canadian, British soldiers practiced here. They were just on paper? [[Applause]] [[Unreciprocated.]] The shield the construction of which began was only on paper? [[Sikorski resigned.]] How can you say that, Minister? We don't deny this government credit, we don't deny President Andrzej Duda credit, but... [[Voice from the courtroom: But you're calling off the minister.]] ... I appeal to you not to simply miss the truth in such a radical way, because it will come back to you once. [[The voice from the hall: But it was you who started this huckle.]] Someday you'll be former Minister of Defense, too, and all these lies will come back to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u51	However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the correction procedure, I quote: it concerns a misunderstood or inaccurate statement made by the speaker, and here I hear polemics. So that I would ask you to follow the correction procedure. Mr Niesiołowski, of course, is corrected... [[It's not gonna be a corrigendum.]] ... misunderstood or misconstrued? [[Yeah, he replaced me.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think it's ever that kind of correction mode... In this case, Mr. Marshal Brudziński... I rarely... I don't mean to overreact, but I can't have... [[Then don't abuse it.]] Yes, that's how to lie, Mr. Marshal, it's a shame. [[Applause]] I didn't say that. Suggesting that the Platform is against the Oder and Nysa border because she didn't take part in digging up some pole... [[He doesn't even remember what he said.]] ...it's already pure Gomulka. [[Don't go down.]] However, as for Mr Macierewicz, it is not my fault that Mr Macierewicz broke his cooperation, i.e. MON, but for this, I understand, you are responsible for Macierewicz, the Union of Polish Army Soldiers. This is a union of soldiers who... There were a lot of us in the army. After the war the Polish Army, the People's Polish Army, which in its traditions refers to veterans from Lenino, from the Pomorskie Wałe... You've stopped working with these people. These people felt touched. I didn't dream it. [[We don't know.]] Mr Macierewicz in this sense and in this respect has radically divided the Polish Army into a good and bad tradition. It is the tradition of the Polish Army, the heroes, and these were heroes - more people were killed at Kołobrzeg than at Monte Cassino. You can't count the victims. Polish blood is equally valuable. That's what I have to say, and I'm supporting it. [[Applause]] In Macierewicz's actions... [[Macierevich?]] In the Minister's actions... [[Minister Macierewicz.]] Minister, yes, Minister Macierewicz. ...I saw the action of extremely despicable. Maybe, I want to believe, but I find it hard to believe, it's awkward, but it's rather mean, because meanness is what's characteristic of you. [[Hate.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u53	Excuse me, sir, at the first minute, I might have considered this a corrigendum, but then... I would also like to inform the High House that representatives of other youth and other groups are also listening to us... [[Exactly.]] ...from other parts of Poland, and probably from Europe. Welcome. [[Applause]] You see, so far the spirits of the past hover over the Sejm of the Republic. [[And who caused it?]] Would the Prime Minister like to speak? Prime Minister Beata Szydło would like to speak. [[Oh, no.]] [[What's he supposed to do?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I asked for this voice, among others. because we have special guests in the Sejm today, young people who listen to our debate at a very special moment, as we have already talked about many times from this speaker, when in a few days in Warsaw there will be a really important event that will determine matters of the security of Poland, but also our region for the following years. I thought the lack of responsibility on the part of the Civic Platform ran out of... [[Take care of your party.]] ...this inept proposal that we discussed today, or at least it was an attempt to discuss, because the proposal itself, as I mentioned earlier, does not deserve to spend much time with it. But it was made and in a democratic order that... [[Unfortunately, we must acknowledge it.]] ...is in force in our parliament... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Since when?]] ...the debate on this proposal took place. I thought it was already exhausting the lack of responsibility on the part of the Civic Platform, but it's still not enough that it's not enough to cast defilements, slanders, dirty, snuffed out of your fingers just because... [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] ...to build your own political position... [[A reference to the president.]] ...to save herself, to save the sinking Platform, which, as far as memory is concerned, has spent the last 8 years only dealing with the sharing of Poles, only and exclusively with the instigating of the fights... [[I'm sure the specialists are you.]] ...only by tearing down and merely leading to constant contention, constant contention... [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about?]] ...unfortunately, what I say with regret, also bringing matters of Poland beyond borders and trying to find allies in their political interests... [[And the tribunal?]] ...in different environments that were supposed to hit the Polish state. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[You're lying! You're lying!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And you can see that this is still little and that you can't even draw a conclusion at the moment and you can't understand the seriousness of the moment and the responsibility of all of us in this Chamber, including your responsibility, for the Polish state, for Polish citizens. You received a mandate from citizens to represent them, to represent Polish cases. You have been given a mandate to think first of all about the common good and the fate of Polish citizens and our homeland. Think about whether what you're doing right now, or whether these accusations are an outrage of order, is constantly acting as an anti-state opposition against the Polish state... [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] ...this is what the Poles entrusted to you, just handing over to you the fate of Poland, the fate of the Polish state, the fate of Polish citizens, giving you a mandate to represent them. Remember that every one of us who received this mandate not only received a huge privilege, not only a huge honor, not only a great honour, but most of all it bears responsibility for Poland and Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: How do you do this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u55	I close the discussion on the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish with a formal application, yes? [[No, it's a vote.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Only about what the Prime Minister said. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion!]] [[Voice from the room: No, formal request.]] [[There's no discussion.]] Formal motion for a recess. On my break, I'd like to ask you for a marshal for the Senior Convention. The Prime Minister said that we were given a mandate as an opposition to represent our citizens. We've received a ticket from the citizens. How do you, Prime Minister, propose to set up a committee on Amber Gold without two parliamentary clubs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The unsub can't judge himself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a request for a break in the context of the convening of the Senior Convention. The convening of the Senior Convention is the authority of the Marshal of the Sejm, so that I kindly thank you for this request, but I do not accept it. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: It was a request to the marshal.]] [[The unsub won't judge his own case.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence, Antoni Macierewicz, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. There were 166 votes against and 267 abstentions. [[Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] I state that the Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, in the absence of the required majority of votes. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on: - the citizens' draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, - the parliamentary draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, - the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, - the draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act (prints No 550, 558, 569, 129 and 667). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on: citizens' draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 550, the parliamentary draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, print No 558, the parliamentary bill on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, print No 569, and the parliamentary bill on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, print No 129. The Sejm at its 20th meeting on 9 and 10 June 2016 pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have addressed these projects to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The committee met on 21 and 29 June. At its first meeting on 21 June, the committee appointed an emergency subcommittee for the examination of these draft laws, which I had the honour of chairing. The subcommittee held five meetings, four of which were substantive. Written opinions for draft laws were presented by the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the National Court of Justice, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Treasury, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels, the office of case law and studies of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. At the beginning of the meeting on 22 June, the subcommittee agreed that the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act, print No 558, would be the basis project for further legislative work. As a decisive argument, it was pointed out that the project essentially restores the regulation of the earlier Constitutional Tribunal Act of 1 August 1997. The solutions to this law are well known to the authorities of the State, including the Constitutional Court, as it was based on the ruling in 1997 and 2015. It was noted that the project restores regulations whose constitutionality was not contested, which also did not raise major social controversy. The Extraordinary Sub-Committee concluded its work on 24 June 2016 and forwarded its report to the Committee on Justice on that date. The Commission carried out and completed its work at its meeting on 29 June. During the work of the committee and the subcommittee, the representatives of most clubs expressed their views on the purpose of adopting a new law or amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. It has repeatedly been stressed that the new Court Act should resolve all disputes or at least a significant part of the disputes around the Constitutional Tribunal, meet constitutional standards and at the same time meet the social expectations of greater legitimacy and transparency of the Court's activities. In view of the assumption that the project would be based on the provisions of the 1997 Constitutional Court Act, during the work of the committee and the subcommittees, discussions were mainly on those solutions of the project, which constituted a derogation from the regulations in force until 2015. The proposals were discussed in detail, usually in line with the amendments tabled formally, by or inspired by the representatives of the Legislative Initiative Committee and members of the Law and Justice Clubs, the Civic Platform, the Modern Platform, the Kukiz Club15, the Polish People's Party, as well as a Member of the non-associated Janusz Sanocki. All the regulations of the attached project have been systematically discussed twice, first in the Emergency Sub-Committee and then in the Committee. The opinions submitted and during the discussion raised doubts about some of the institutions and regulations of the project. As a result, some of the doubts were eliminated or mitigated. Where this was not possible, minority proposals were submitted. After considering all four projects, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law as proposed in the report of the Committee on Printing No 667. At the same time, the committee in accordance with the Rule. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 At the request of the applicants, Mr Jarosław Marciniak of the Legislative Initiative Committee of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Mr Boris Budki, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk and Mr Marcin Święcicki, indicated in the printing of minority applications. I would like to thank you for the constructive cooperation you and your fellow Members, as well as all the experts and members of the committee and the subcommittee. In the event of specific questions, I shall remain at the disposal of the High House. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u59	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! [[No, sir?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, a position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It is a good thing that the Emergency Sub-Committee and the Committee of Justice have adopted the parliamentary draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal, print No. 558, as a base project in the work on the new Constitutional Tribunal Act. It is not that it was submitted by a group of Members of the Law and Justice. This project has another decisive advantage. In fact, it crosses most of the disputes concerning the solutions adopted in the Constitutional Court Act of 25 June 2015. This is due to the fact that this proposal essentially restores the provisions of the earlier Constitutional Tribunal Act of 1 August 1997, which was in force between 1997 and 2015. In other words, the regulations which, first of all, constitutionality was not challenged by any significant political or social group and which, in any event, compared with the controversy raised by the 2015 Act have been functioning satisfactorily in practice for almost two decades. This is a fundamental advantage in comparison with the proposal to return to the original wording of the law adopted on 25 June 2015, especially if the scale of the controversy which was triggered by the adoption of that law is taken into account. As I mentioned, although the proposal essentially restores the rules of the earlier Court Act, on some issues it contains derogations from the rules in force at the time. It does not resolve all the issues that are currently under discussion, but offers an opportunity to stabilise the situation and lower the political temperature of the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. The adoption of this proposal ends a period of several months of legal uncertainty related to divergent opinions on the legal nature of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal in the period from March 2016. An additional advantage is the fact that the project provides for the publication of controversial decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal issued in the period from 10 March 2016. Some proposals respond to the criticism of the solutions of the current Court Act and correspond at least to the changes expected by the various parties to the dispute. As the citizens' draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal has been established, the contested draft also obliges or at least provides for the possibility to examine fully the constitutionality and legality of important constitutionally and socially important laws. Another of the proposals for amendments that coincide with the proposals for a civil project is that each member of the General Assembly of the Tribunal may vote for only one candidate in the selection procedure of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. We also took into account the proposal of the club of the Polish People's Party, according to which judges were to be assigned to cases in alphabetical order, according to the order of influence of cases. The draft also takes into account the observations made by the Group of Courts and Studies of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Civic Platform and changes in the composition of the ruling in the second instance in disciplinary proceedings against the judges of the Tribunal. Some of the proposals contained in the draft laws and repeated in the course of the work of the subcommittee and committees could lead to the resolution of some further or other controversy concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. In particular, it was interesting to propose the Polish People's Party that judges, whose validity of the election exists, be put to rest. Unfortunately, serious and widespread reservations regarding the constitutionality of the proposal prevent this from being implemented. Similar doubts concern the solution for the judges of the Tribunal to elect the Sejm by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. To conclude by discussing our position towards the work of the committee and the subcommittee, let me stress and thank you for the participation of all parties to the political stage, although in particular for the constructive attitude of representatives of Kukiz and the Polish People's Party. In considering the opinions put forward on some of the project solutions, and in order to clarify the content of certain provisions, the Law and Justice Club is proposing an additional eight amendments. They meet the expectations of the most relentless opposition. In particular, in cases of particular complexity, we propose that only the President of the Tribunal, the formation or a group of three judges, and not, as before, may apply for full review. [[♪ The bell ♪]] was proposed, including the Attorney General and the President. We also propose deleting the provision so that, in exceptional circumstances, rulings of the Tribunal can be taken by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u61	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u62	In conclusion, I would like to say that it is good that there is agreement beyond one political camp regarding the need to amend the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u63	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u64	...regulating the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. In matters that arouse so much political emotion and awaken them...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u65	Thank you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u66	...for so long, the destructive approach is: all or nothing. Because the bill presented solves a significant part of the existing problems... [[Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u67	(PL) Mr President, Mr President, Excuse me, but time's up. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u69	And please take the floor of Mr Boris Budka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law, specifically on the report that is the subject of today's proceedings. Nothing more wrong than talking about this bill as a compromise act, as a law that solves the problem that Law and Justice created around the Constitutional Tribunal. It is from this place that all these lies that have been created by the current governing camp for nearly 8 months should be resisted only to paralyze the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. One only error in the act of June ub. It became a reason to implement the pre-established plan of Jarosław Kaczyński, who was already in its material form in 2007. [[It wasn't a mistake.]] [[It was an assassination attempt.]] It was already in 2007. Law and Justice tried to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. Why? The Constitutional Tribunal, which has been proven recently, is the last bastion where citizens can seek rescue from the total state of law and justice, is the last place where civil rights and freedoms can find real protection against successive unconstitutional laws pushed by the present majority. In order to eliminate the Constitutional Tribunal, three laws have already been created in this term, legal bubbles which have been devastated not only by public opinion, but above all by professionals. It was not only the Constitutional Tribunal that pointed out the unconstitutionality of the proposed regulations - it was also done by the representatives of the Venice Commission or the European Commission in their position, which has not yet been disclosed by the Government of Law and Justice. This law once again implements the intention of Law and Justice that the Constitutional Tribunal should never be able to rule on the non-constitutionality of the law in force in this term of office. Let me remind you that there is a great deal of legislation that violates fundamental rights and civil liberties. No one has ever passed so many unconstitutional laws in such a short period of time. The Act, from which the PRLs would be proud, led to the fact that the State wants to monopolize the trading of agricultural land by actually expropriating the sacred property right. It was painful for farmers who are unable to take credit at the moment. Several hundred people in the civil service were expelled by one law. The Constitutional Tribunal has not yet been able to comment on this matter. But, most importantly, in this proposal, which is allegedly compromise, Law and Justice wants to take away the Ombudsman's opportunity to intercede for citizens at the Constitutional Court. Moreover, in the transitional provisions, you propose that all cases which are currently under consideration, and thus also constitutional complaints, including questions from the courts, be suspended for at least 6 months and started from the very beginning. Why? Because the last thing you're still afraid of is that your so-called. A good change will be devastated by the constitutional court. This bill has nothing to do with compromise. This blocking of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is not provided for by the Constitution of the prerogatives of the President of the Republic, the Prosecutor General, as well as four judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, are in fact the interference of the executive authority with the legislative authority. That can't be allowed. You don't do anything with this bill. You are deepening chaos just to show our foreign partners for a few moments that the alleged compromise has been worked out by you. The Civic Platform says I'm checking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The platform is currently making a number of amendments aimed at restoring the constitutionality of this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u71	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Romekowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking again in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. I don't really remember how many times the High House is proceeding whether in relation to the Constitutional Court Act or in relation to the circumstances which accompany the functioning of this very important institution from the point of view of the functioning of the Polish State. As regards the draft law, on which the subcommittee first followed, and then the committee, at the starting point, i.e. when we had our first reading in the High House, I said in the same place that the bill in no way brought us closer to the conclusion of the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. On the other hand, the effect exceeded my expectations. This means not only that we have not come absolutely close, but, in fact, I have the impression, we have dismissed, because the bill, although it contains several elements that mitigate the resolution of the December Act, also contains a number of mechanisms which aim to paralyse the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. My greatest amazement at the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights was the fact that all opposition groups supported the call for a qualified majority of 2/3 votes, while the Law and Justice Club, which voted, like our club, did not support this call for a proposal to amend the constitution introducing a mechanism for the selection of judges by qualified majority Two-thirds of the votes. The only thing I'm happy about right now is that every political group is in favour of 2/3, but unfortunately it doesn't show it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the greatest shortcomings of this law are concerned, this is, firstly, a mechanism concerning the request by four judges of the Tribunal for a delay of 3 months due to the complexity of the case. This mechanism can actually work forever. This is the mechanism that makes the work of the Constitutional Tribunal stablely paralyzed. Another element is the point that my previous speaker, Mr Boris Budka, referred to. Namely start the process again after 6 months. This mechanism will ensure that, for the next 3.5 years, i.e. the end of the term of office, no matter which has been referred to the Constitutional Court at the moment will be dealt with. To conclude, because here I think the discussion is absolutely unnecessary: If this law in the form in which it left the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, i.e. with these mechanisms that paralyze the work of the tribunal, will be submitted during the third reading, then our club will vote against this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u73	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What can we do about the next Constitutional Court Act? Not much, I'm afraid. Although no, we can do, and it's an important thing: throw this project in the trash, that's all it's worth. It's a very dangerous bill. It's a bill that means the tribunal's total paralysis. You build law and justice based on the will of politicians, not the law. There are not only conflicting rules in this project, which prove sloppyness - I hope not about lack of competence - but above all non-constitutional rules, which the Law and Justice know about, and yet stubbornly strives for their adoption. What's unconstitutional? Here are some examples created in the current project. The 2/3 required in the vote on the judgment, and when this majority cannot be obtained, the case must be dismissed. Where's the citizen's constitutional right to settle? The interference of the President and the Minister of Justice in the order of the cases considered, and the President himself in the matter of the expiry of the judge's mandate, is the collapse of the independence of the tribunal. Finally, why should judgments issued after 10 March be published? Before March 10th, the tribunal was different? Another squad? Between 9 and 10, has anything changed? [[Of course.]] You want to grant yourselves the right to refuse execution. This is the only thing that clearly indicates that you will be sacrificing conduct that will be inconvenient for you. I ignore the fact that you want to re-recognize the cases pending trial, that the Attorney General will be blocking the court's hearings without going to another hearing. I could have said that for a long time, because the whole bill is wrong. You're saying you're based on the 1997 Act, but you've deformed it so much that it's become unconstitutional. You set up a team to prepare legal solutions for the resolution bill. It is clear that it is not about creating good law, but about misleading representatives of the European Union and the public. We don't have any effect on this team. Is that another money thrown in the mud? This is a manipulation of law and citizens, an attempt on the independence of the courts, including the particular constitutional court. You've subjugated the police, the D.A.'s office, paralyzed the tribunal, blocked the jury's nominations. Are you about to punish us for our views, for our other political views? Is that what you need a new Tribal Act for? At this moment the fate of democracy in Poland is at stake. Will the Law and Justice model prevail or will we abide by the Constitution? As you can see, you're consistent, but that's what we citizens are going to lose. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u75	I ask the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u76	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the PiS! You broke the Polish record in the number of statutory misfires planted under the Constitutional Tribunal. This is the fourth law by PiS, which concerns the Constitutional Tribunal. Each of them caused more and more confusion, each of them served the interests of one party, none served democracy, none served the Polish state. Face it, stop lying to Poles. Poland today has a problem with the President and the Prime Minister, with PiS politicians, not with the tribunal. The bill cannot solve any of the problems of the tribunal. We will not take a vow in the Parliament, nor will we publish a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Everything points to the fact that the new PiS Act wants to impose a gag on the Constitutional Tribunal as soon as possible. You are in a hurry because you want to take advantage of the fact that Poles are busy with Euro 2016, they are busy with holidays, but the legislative mines left by you will unfortunately have to disarm later. This law primarily violates the principle of three divisions of power. It makes the Constitutional Tribunal dependent on PiS politicians. Andrzej Duda and Zbigniew Ziobro will decide on the composition of the court hearing the case. Andrzej Duda will decide in what order the tribunal will hear the case. Andrzej Duda will also elect the President of the Constitution, even though the Constitution only gives him the right to appoint. Zbigniew Ziobro, on the other hand, will be able to block the ruling on a particular case, first making it necessary to be heard in full and then not to appear at the hearing. I will remind you that he has not yet appeared at the Constitutional Court. Andrzej Duda was also granted the function of a superarbitter verifying the ruling of the disciplinary court. He will decide who might be the judge and who can't - even if convicted of being removed from office. High Izbo! The PiS once again puts party interests over the responsibility of the State. The new PiS Act will dismantle the Constitutional Tribunal into parts. As long as the politicians of the PiS want it, the Constitutional Tribunal simply won't give a ruling. The bill that PiS is now presenting is a muzzle bill. This muzzle is imposed not only on the Constitutional Tribunal, but above all on Polish democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u77	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! After the debate at first reading, we hoped for a serious debate, a proposal and a genuine search for compromise. That was also the case. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, on behalf of the PiS, said: "The interesting proposal, perhaps at least in part feasible, is that judges, whose validity of the choice exists, should be put to rest.' He also said: "It is worth considering the solution so that the Sejm can ask the tribunal to re-examine the case when new circumstances arise." The proposal, the only one that has been adopted, for the allocation of judges in order, goes against the often formulated expectations. Mr Wróblewski, for which I thank you very much, summarized his speech as follows: "In conclusion, it is good that there is agreement beyond one political environment regarding the need to amend the rules governing the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. And who, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members, has not allowed you to compromise? Who wouldn't let you compromise? We reached out, we made a consensus proposal, we made our proposals, but you just don't want to compromise, you don't want to compromise. We responded to the call from the Venice Commission. I thank the Kukiz Club15 for supporting this initiative, because there was also a call to the opposition, that it should support and strive to find a solution here in Poland. You do not like visits by the Venice Commission and representatives of the European Union in Poland, and you invite them first. Now you're inviting them again, not looking for compromise and not wanting compromise. This, unfortunately, is a major, fundamental error, and indeed a sin - an unwillingness to reach agreement. That, of course, makes it impossible to vote for your bill. The details will be discussed by Mr Paszyk. Unfortunately, you did not want to take the chance to end legal duality in Poland, to bring normality, to end chaos. You didn't want to do it, and you don't want to do it anymore. You're self-confidence that you have a monopoly on knowledge. You prefer thousands of Pyrrus victories to one good and wise compromise. This is a mistake that will hiccup you many times. Too bad, because there was a chance for a consensus bill and there were good signals from you. But you can't break any of your animosities -- sometimes you don't want to break them, and I want to believe that you can't. It's even you, Judge Beszczółkowski, even though chosen by one political option, even though he was a politician until recently, showed his conscience recently, expressing his views on the question of judgment. It is a pity that you do not refer to your conscience, the basis of which is to distinguish right from wrong. Compromise was possible, and finding compromise was our duty. Every day we told you, I'm checking. It is a pity that you did not want a broader formula for bringing Poland out of legal chaos, restoring normality. The law proposed by you today, which comes out of committee, does not ensure the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, does not provide for normal working procedures and is simply unacceptable. It's not a compromise proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u79	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Pasyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The legislative process in which we participate is a kind of test, such a credibility test for the majority of the Parliament for the sincerity of intentions, for the authentic will of agreement. This test is coming to an end. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it won't be a positive test. This is another idea, another bill on the resolution of the situation concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, but once again it skips two areas. If we do not face them, we will continue to put forward further draft laws on the Constitutional Tribunal six more times, and we will not solve it, and there will still be inconvenient questions, and the interest of the European institutions will continue. These two areas are the publication of all decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal and the resolution of the personal case. Both areas were affected by the project of the Polish People's Party. Unfortunately, I regret that these solutions have not been taken into account in the work of both the subcommittee and the committees, so we reiterate our proposals in the form of amendments on solutions in these two areas, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I will repeat: without a solution in this respect, the successive laws concerning the Constitutional Tribunal will not bring anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u81	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus for profit. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[No, he took pity.]] [[He probably thought it was later.]] There's no envoy. Therefore, we are waiting for a list of those who are enrolled in the question. If there are no more questions to ask, I will close the list of speakers. It's a short technical break. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Józef Lassota.]] [[No questions, that's the answer.]] In that case, I'm closing the list of people who are scheduled to be asked questions. The time for questioning is 1 minute. Mr Ireneusz Gaina will be the first to speak. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. In that case, Mr Waldemar Buda. [[There isn't any either.]] [[There it is.]] [[Which one is it?]] [[He's your friend.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u82	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! [[I heard Budny.]] [[Maybe we should invite you on Facebook.]] The name may have been actually heard differently. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the 1997 draft law, which raised no constitutional doubts, a reduction in the number of persons, a full composition, a reduction in the number of cases that are dealt with in full, a reduction in the number of cases in which qualified majority will be decided, and finally the publication of decisions which previously could not be published as judgments because they were unlawful. Isn't that a compromise, ladies and gentlemen? So what should we write down in this bill so you can sign it? After all, this clearly indicates your intentions. It's consistent with the rule that a bunny should be chased, but not chased. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u83	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! PiS understands the word "compromis" in a very specific way. There's no compromise here. This procedated project will not only lead to paralysis of the tribunal, but also undermines the achievements of 27 years of Polish transformation by denying the principle of democratic rule of law, principles of independence of judges and independence of courts. Your goal is only to block the tribunal, to make it incapable of fulfilling the role provided for in the Constitution. The project does not meet any of the recommendations set out in the opinion of the Venice Commission. It's a clear, brutal attempt to subjugate the court of executive authority. It is also an attempt to introduce mechanisms to block the tribunal, to fulfil its systemic role. Ladies and gentlemen, today we must sound the alarm. This is the moment when the whole society should say no to this good change, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which really limits the rights and freedoms of individuals in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u85	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Mr Budka spoke about the importance of the role of the Constitutional Court in the state system, about the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal is to defend fundamental civil rights. One such right is the right to the protection of property and inheritance enshrined in the Constitution. Therefore, using the presence of Judge Rzepliński, President of the Constitutional Tribunal, I will ask a symbolic question: Why did the Constitutional Tribunal, when ruling on the plunder of PLN 150 billion collected at OFE, approve this looting, stating that, however, this PLN 150 billion could be taken away from Poles? It was looting, it was a violation of the constitution. We do not agree to this and, Mr President, the citizens will never forget it for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u87	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u88	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. In support of the draft law, the applicants claimed that the judgment of 9 March 2016 was issued in the composition of an unknown constitution. The above claim in the assessment of the applicants justifies the amendment of the Constitutional Court Act by presenting a completely new draft of the whole law. Given that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal referred to a change made by the current parliamentary majority, it is reasonable to ask whether, in place of the proposed draft, the Sejm should not implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March following its prior publication, in particular in view of the opinion of the Venice Commission. Should this opinion be met in relation to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the publication of a judgment and the restoration of the standards of the rule of law, the process of this project does not become pointless? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u89	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal, there are projects in which the Sejm should elect judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Well, it's a conservative proposal, in my opinion, but in the wrong sense of the word, i.e. This is a proposal to preserve a certain demoliberal set of forces in the Constitutional Tribunal. Why? Because then the election of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal will have to be based on broad consensus, i.e. the agreement of the liberal political centre as well. The task, which is faced by the silent majority so far, by speaking the American categories, the nation, the Polish society, is to win a cultural war, and the Constitutional Tribunal not only rules on the basis of the Constitution, it interprets the constitution either in the national, Catholic or liberal spirit. If we establish [[♪ The bell ♪]] the majority 2/3, we will stop the possibility of choosing MEPs with national, Catholic, strong views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u91	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another law of the PiS, which, in short, is unconstitutional and was written on the knee. What is the purpose of the project for applicants? What is the justification for changing the entire law and its editorial order? I would like to point out that the presented project was drawn up in a sloppy manner which hinders its confrontation with the provisions of the current and previously existing law. In view of the short time limit between the publication of the project and today's reading, it is justified to ask what specific provisions the designer is trying to hide from citizens among the extensive regulations, which can only be assessed in terms of overregulation. Are applicants aware of the nature of the amendments made to the draft Law on the Court of Justice to the extent that they constitute legislative novelty? Are applicants aware that as far-reaching changes in the text of the Act as those proposed in the article. 68 and 69 projects didn't go through first reading properly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u93	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadius Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u94	Thank you, Marshal. First of all, I would like to address the question to the representative of the citizens' initiative. Have any of the fundamental issues of your draft law been reflected in the committee's work report that has been discussed? Mr President, I am addressing the rapporteur - is it true that Minister Waszczykowski invited the Venice Commission to Poland, whose opinion on the Constitutional Court you completely ignored during the work of the committee? Is it true that the Law and Justice fund the blockade of judgments in the court even in civil matters, or is it because of the actions of Minister Ziobra, or at the request of only four judges? Is it true that this Law restricts the involvement of the Ombudsman in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal? Is it true that this Law of the PiS guarantees President Andrzej Duda interference in disciplinary proceedings concerning judges? And is it true that in the name of law and justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Constitutional Tribunal Act was prepared by Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, prosecutor of martial law? Thank you. [[Hey, you clown!]] [[No invective, sir.]] [[It's worth being decent.]] [[In my whole life.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u95	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! My question is this. I've asked that repeatedly, but unfortunately I haven't gotten an answer. As a justification for the proceding of this draft law, the applicant pointed to the danger of functioning in two legal systems as a consequence of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 9 March 2016. What is the applicant's assessment of the danger of two legal regimes, two parallel legal orders? Do you admit that you operate in a separate legal order than citizens, than courts, than local authorities, that in a different legal order there is a PiS and the State, and that this law is the case? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u97	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! Well, the project we have here today, which we are debating, was done at an express rate. While the president of the subcommittee said that at four or five meetings, the committee really discussed 73 articles at one meeting. It's a very expressive pace. The Committee on Justice adopted this at one meeting. It's also an express pace. But back to the questions... Oh, I also wanted to ask the rapporteur why he did not present it, although it is his duty in accordance with the Rule. 43, minority proposals and did not discuss the fundamental doubts raised during the committee debate. And I would also like to ask the representatives of the citizens' initiative, which of their solutions have been taken into account. Does this project fit the standards that citizens have signed up to? And is this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does he deserve any more work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u99	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Misja. There's no envoy. In that case, I would ask Mrs Margaret Navel to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! In the Seym of the current term, cameras were already disappearing from the plenary room and strange directional microphones on the seym floor. On 29 June, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz wanted to invite representatives of the media from the chamber where the committee worked. The cameras were supposedly interfering with the committee's work, even though the operators were standing at the end of the room. President Piotrowicz threatened journalists with blocking leave to the Sejm. This is the freedom of the media in the issue of Law and Justice, the freedom you do not give, and which you take away, also by amending the Constitutional Court Act. What are you afraid of or ashamed of? Sovereign, who wants to see how the law is currently being made in Poland? That's my question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u101	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Furga.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! Not a lot of Izbo! What justifies giving the President and the Prosecutor-General the power to actually change the formation of the Constitutional Tribunal to the full composition of the Constitutional Tribunal? Only the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, in agreement with the judges and after assessing the gravity of the case, took decisions in the previously applicable law in this case. What are the substantive reasons for allowing the President and the Prosecutor-General to intervene so far in the judicial activities of the Constitutional Tribunal? Are you aware that you are introducing a provision that both the President and the Attorney General can influence the formation of formations by applying for full-time recognition? This is therefore contrary to Article. 173 in conjunction with Article. The 10th Constitution, due to the deep interference of the executive authority in the sphere of judicial power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u103	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft adopted by the committee de facto prevents constitutional control of the law and the rule of law in Poland. The Constitution becomes a paper over which no one will control, check whether it is implemented by the ruling majority, whether it is widely broken. The draft gives the President the opportunity to elect as President of the Tribunal and its Vice-President persons who do not have the confidence of up to 13 members of the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The proposal gives the prosecutor the opportunity to stop the proceedings if he does not attend the hearings in which he has to attend, and he may decide on which cases he must attend. It also gives the president the opportunity to determine the composition and order of the case. No proposals for a citizens' CODE project have been taken into account, and it is said that this is a compromise proposal. Not included, not even waited for the opinion of the committee of experts appointed by Marshal Kuchciński. No indication of the Venice Commission has been applied [[♪ The bell ♪]] or previous judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. This project, ladies and gentlemen, makes constitutionality control in Poland fiction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u105	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Peterovich! I'm talking to you. Tell me, because we still don't get an answer to this question, what is the justification for increasing the number of formations from three to five and from five to seven. Do you see that the introduction of such rigour will actually result in a reduction in the number of formations available? Do you have any substantive comment in favour of this change? So far, what you are proposing is purely ideological and not substantive. I'd ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u107	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Osos. You don't have an MP? Then I ask you to speak... [[Can I go after her? I'm her club friend.]] Member, please sit down. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon... Unless you ask a question in Dutch. [[But please don't be mean. This time in Polish.]] Thank you. Please, Mr. Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The task of the Constitutional Tribunal is inter alia. uphold the compatibility of laws with the Constitution or examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the objectives or activities of political parties. Therefore, the Constitutional Tribunal is a kind of reduction to protect citizens from the temptations of power, the temptations of political parties, the temptations of politicians. That is why it is so important that this office includes people of good repute and that the oath they take corresponds to the weight of the office being held. I would therefore like to ask the question why the applicants have changed the content of the vow by removing the clause of conscience and removing the oath to perform the duties of judge in accordance with the dignity of office. Is it true that these two characteristics of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are the most disturbing of the current power and are the real reason for further attempts to deal with the Constitutional Tribunal [[♪ The bell ♪]] By Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u109	Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u110	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Myrcha has already mentioned that during his work the suggestions, recommendations of the Venice Commission, which were either invited by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, were completely disregarded. But I recall that a team of experts working at the Marshal was also formed with a great bang. [[Exactly.]] I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Marshal, and the rapporteur, and the chairman of the committee: Have you seen the conclusion, the fruit of this team's work, what are the costs of this team's activities, and is it possible that this is where the absurd statement came from that four judges of the Constitutional Tribunal can block the work on each project addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal, block effectively, prevent its examination? If this is not the band, then who is the author of this nonsense on the scale of the whole Western world, the whole constitutional democracy [[♪ The bell ♪]] A record? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u111	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. There's no envoy. In that case, Mr Wojciech Wilk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! In my opinion, the fundamental question is: Why does the Constitutional Tribunal, under the pretence of remedying the situation around the Constitutional Tribunal, marginalize, block, deprive real action? The project, which we are talking about, contains almost exclusively proposals for law and justice - it should be asked what about the promises that govern the search for the best solutions and compromises - and introduces mechanisms that directly eliminate the independence of the tribunal. The project we are debating limits the principle of three divisions of authorities, a principle that includes: protects the citizens of our country and its institutions from abuse of their influence by one of them. It is a project which, on the one hand, restricts the role of Ombudsman in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and, on the other hand, strengthens the role of Minister of Justice, Prosecutor General. I would like to ask the rapporteur: Why did you not take into account during the committee's work [[♪ The bell ♪]] the vast majority of the amendments tabled by the opposition? On the other hand, have you taken into account any recommendations made by the Venice Commission? And a question of fundamental importance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u113	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u114	Is there room in your vision for an independent tribunal? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u115	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur: Why do you again propose that the Constitutional Tribunal should recognise cases in order of their influence, not according to the importance and degree of importance for citizens? Why are you ignoring once again the recommendations of the Venice Commission's opinion and, in particular, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which concerned the state of the front attempts to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal? Ladies and gentlemen! The truth has only one face, and the lie has a lot of faces. Unfortunately, in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, the lie will have the face of 223 Members of Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u117	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna. [[How about me behind her?]] No, my fellow Member, thank you. [[How relentless I am...]] It's true. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Sejm is proceeding with four draft laws on the Constitutional Court, including a citizens' project. Meanwhile, the leading and only project is the proposal for Law and Justice. The important amendments tabled from other projects, from the opinion of the Venice Commission, are immediately rejected, even without an attempt to analyse them. This was the case in the Committee on Justice, when even the clarification amendments did not find acceptance of the PiS. It is a lie that the ruling party is open to any compromise on the Constitutional Tribunal. Why are you introducing unconstitutional powers to the president? For what purpose? Why is the president equipped with such undemocratic powers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u119	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Whether the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act submitted by the representatives of the citizens' initiative complied with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and was consistent with the guidelines resulting from the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, in particular the judgments of December 2015 and March 2015. As representatives of the citizens' initiative, were you equally and equally allowed to speak during the work of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights? Are any of the provisions of your project included in the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights? Was your vote taken into consideration during committee and subcommittee deliberations as a full participant in the work on the bill? Have the amendments you have proposed been accepted and, if accepted, to what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u121	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Serious questions are being asked, the discussion was also quite serious, while the Marshal realizes that there is a farce in this room - a farce called: pretending that the law is being passed, and this is a farce that shows that those who have the majority today have no right. I would really like to ask you a question not to the marshal, because we know the attitude of the marshal, and not to Mr Peterovich, who, as a communist prosecutor in a state of war, convicted or accused people who... [[You'll have a trial. You're gonna get a trial for this.]] Will it? Thank you. [[I promise you.]] Thank you very much. [[Because you're not telling the truth right now.]] Anyway, you were a U.S. Attorney, a communist prosecutor. If you didn't accuse me, I'm sorry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[On the platform? Immunity.]] But, of course, I am asking these Members of the Law and Justice...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u123	Thank you, sir. You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u124	...who know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u125	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u126	They're in a disgraceful business. Thank you. [[Member Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But he accused, Mr. Member, he accused.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u127	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. [[If he's accusing, he's gonna have a trial, too.]] There's no envoy. In that case, I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Members of the Law and Justice, presenting their Constitutional Court Act, often pointed out that it was really a law, the presentation of the 1997 Act, which served Poland for 20 years. Therefore, I have these questions: Where in the 1997 Act we will find such records as: the right of the Attorney General and the President to decide whether or not the tribunal is in full court? Where can we find the issue of dealing with cases in the order of influence? Where in this bill were four judges blocking a conviction? Or did I miss the rule in the 1997 Act that sentences fall by a majority of 2/3? All those records weren't in this bill. Therefore, the reference to the 1997 Act is pure populism in your implementation. You have built this law. so as to include in the 1997 Act all possible locking mechanisms to [[♪ The bell ♪]] finally block the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u129	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You don't have an MP? In that case, Mr Adam Cyranski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that it responds to the expectations of all political groups and is a consensual proposal for changes aimed at resolving political disputes. It is therefore undoubtedly a solution that can be defined as a compromise between the positions of the governing party and the parties forming the parliamentary opposition. End of quote. Not only did you not hear the voice of the opposition, both the comments and the amendments made, including by representatives of the citizens' initiative, to your bill, but you introduced further paralyzing tribunal solutions. In addition, the law introduces solutions to enable the Court to really block the work of the tribunal, such as: Extension of the powers of the President of the Republic of Poland and the Prosecutor General in the selection of the size of the judicial cast - Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 point (1) (a) f. Moreover, you are introducing new solutions in the Act that are at risk of conflict with the Constitution, i.e. Article 2 68 and 69, representing the possibility for four judges to use their veto before the case is settled. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these the new solutions you consider a compromise? Are the new proposals of the Art. 68 and 69 of the PiS Act is a compromise with the opposition within the meaning of the PiS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u131	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteurs of the draft with a question on what is included in the article. In print No 667 of the transitional provisions. Why in Art. 94 of the project have you decided again to propose an inadequate period of vacathio legis for a law of such importance for the Polish state? Why did you decide to prepare a proposal for transitional provisions that derogate the principles of the Article? 2 Constitution, i.e. by the principle of democratic rule of law? It is not clear that, in order to preserve the efficiency of the Court's operation, a six-month period of downtime cannot be included in the settlement of cases, in accordance with the Article proposed by the State. 85 projects? Do you not see that the introduction of an obligation to supplement existing cases according to the new formal requirements concerning the work of the Court may consequently lead to the loss of judicial work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what has already been done in cases which, due to your harmful proposals, will be lost or will have to be dealt with again? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u133	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. There is no Member. Then you're Marshal Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. I ask you to explain how it is possible that you have provided in the provision that in complex cases a judgment may be adjourned, its issue may be postponed by 14 days, and then double the possibility of extending the hearing by 3 months. Like in that case, you have a mouth. 1 to paragraph 1 I guess 6 and 7 of this article, if the judgment can be postponed by 14 days in complex cases? How does the constitutional question even apply to the termination of proceedings? Imagine that a citizen brings a case to court, and the judge thinks, thinks, and says, "I'm not in a position to pass judgment. I don't know, judge, not judge. I know what I'm gonna do. [[I'm gonna die.]] I'm gonna let this go. Is that what this is about? The sense of security, the credibility of the justice system, including the tribunal? After all, this undermines the institution of justice, the conviction of the citizen that it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's where he can get his sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u135	Thank you, Marshal. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. There's no envoy. [[Can I be my friend?]] Madam President, as I have already said, if you had given your word that this would be a question in Dutch, I would have considered, although perhaps I would have violated the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. [[But can I do the protocol?]] [[What kind of non-regular requirement is that?]] Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Misja.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the applicants what is the purpose of the applicant, who in the draft proposal made the expiry of the mandate of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal subject to the agreement of the President of the Republic. In this case, will the President have the power to prosecute an appeal which could effectively destroy the ruling of a disciplinary court sentenced to being removed from office, standing over a disciplinary court? In view of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The 12th project was granted to the President as a superarbitter to verify the ruling of the disciplinary court before the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and that the President would decide who could not be the judge and who could be the judge despite the sentence of removal, did you introduce a proposal for an unconstitutional provision? It is incompatible with the principle of division and balance of power, the principle of independence of courts and independence of judges. The proposed solution makes the executive authority a permanent element of disciplinary action [[♪ The bell ♪]] within the jurisdiction of the judiciary. Are you aware of that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u137	Thank you, sir. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that the list of Members written - I stress - has been exhausted to the vote. This does not mean that the list of people wishing to speak has been exhausted. The best example is the Member. [[Can I do the protocol, right?]] In view of the fact that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted, I also inform the High House that under Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, asked for the floor of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. You're welcome, Mr. President, to speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the mandate granted to me by the Constitutional Tribunal Act to represent this institution outside, I would like to speak on the next draft act on the Court which the High Sejm is working on. My conscience - not only as president of the tribunal, but also as a citizen and professor of legal sciences - does not allow me to remain silent. Silence would be an expression of passive surrender and permission, consent to the highly thoughtless, arbitrary solutions that were found in this project. I have not been consulted before on the project's assumptions, although this is the case in every EU country with regard to the process of drafting laws governing the system and equiping the constitutional court with tools for ruling - this always happens in discussions with the presidents or the President and constitutional judges. I will refer only to the most important problems this project has caused. The question arises as to whether the Sejm can adopt any law, also openly contrary to the law, with the constitution. Sometimes you hear that Parliament is the voice of the sovereign. That's not true. [[Oh!]] Parliament shall be the voice of the representatives of the sovereign. The sovereign of the Republic of Poland is the Polish nation, not the Members and Senators. [[Applause]] [[Or the tribunal.]] Nor are constitutional ministers a sovereign; they are not judges, including judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] It should also be recalled that the whole Polish nation is a sovereign, not a part of it, which voted for the political party. In a referendum, the Sovereign expressed his will, the permanent will to bind himself and his authorities with a constitution. He decided that every body of the state - including the Sejm and the Senate - was required to comply with the Constitution. Due to the binding of the parliament with the constitution and the values it protects, not every act adopted by Parliament will deserve to be called a law. A Parliamentary act consciously adopted in breach of the procedure of its formation, an act containing a deliberate non-constitutional solution, an act consciously abolishing the separation and independence of the judicial authority, an act violating the fundamental principles of the western legal culture is in fact merely an act of law. It is not the law. My vote today is to protect the Sejm and the Senate from the establishment of an apparent bill. The bill is not entitled to an act which assumes the dependence of the Constitutional Tribunal on the will of the other authorities and prevents it from acting effectively, thus actually abolishing its role as guardian of the Constitution, and defending the Constitution of each of us, constitutional judges, sworn. Since the tribunal is intended to be a non-autonomous and ineffective body, such a bill should be regarded as a manifest attempt to change the Polish state's system in the Constitution without a formal amendment of the basic law. The draft law is based on the 1997 Constitutional Court Act. However, it is not a simple repetition of it. The project contains many new elements and they will above all be unconstitutional. At the same time, it should be stressed that the Court has confirmed the constitutionality of the essential arrangements contained in the Act adopted on 25 June 2015. The repeal of this law means the resignation of a number of solutions which, in the short term, have contributed to improving the efficiency of the Court's operation, such as the simplification of the procedure for the initial control of constitutional complaints - simplification does not mean facilitating, on the contrary, the extension of the possibility of issuing judgments at classified meetings and the regulation of proceedings in cases initiated by the proposals of groups of Members or groups of senators after the end of the term of office of the Sejm and the Senate. The first provision that requires comment here is Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 projects where the President agrees to remove the judge from his post. The project attaches great importance to this, even though within 30 years of the court's operation there was no need to hold a constitutional judge liable for disciplinary action. The judge in such a situation, dealing with the President's authority, who will be able to annul the ruling of the disciplinary court, is sent to the judge information: ultimately, your fate depends on the President. Be the president's judge, his conclusions. [[Applause]] [[Insinuations.]] Vote in a way that will satisfy him. Whatever delicacy he would have committed, if the president's conclusions were to be heard at the request of the motion, he could be calm. No matter who's president, it's the way the judge gets addicted to executive power. The President's influence on disciplinary action is directed at judicial independence, [[Applause]] and thus in the independence and separateness of the tribunal. It is aimed at the principle of the division and balance of the authorities. It is worth noting that, for more unknown reasons, the projector, instead of focusing on detailing the procedure for selecting a candidate for the office of a constitutional judge, always choosing a top-notch lawyer, both in terms of professionalism and personality, focuses on disciplinary proceedings. In the meantime, we must remember that the constitution considers the dignity of the judge's office to be of systemic value. As we know, according to the Venice Commission, the dependence of the final decision to remove a judge from office would require a clear constitutional basis. The Sejm does not have such constitutional law, such a basis is lacking. It is also missing if the President's consent is required. The draft provides that the Court is to rule in full if the President, the Attorney General or three judges of the Tribunal so request. This solution is aimed at the constitutionally required efficiency of the procedure, in Article. 45 constitutions. It allows de facto recognition of any constitutionally insignificant matter in full composition. Worse still, in the case of three judges of any kind, or just one fifth of the court's composition, there is no time limit for filing a full case. So, regardless of the stage at which the composition of the panel on the draft decision will take place, it will be able to be transferred to full review at any time, which will necessarily result in delays in the work and will disorganize the work of the formations in other, incomplete cases. The Constitutional Tribunal is a court which does not count 100 or 150 judges, only 15. As a court in such dimensions, it is not a large court. The power of the President and the Attorney General to decide on a case in full will always be an interference of the executive authority in the jurisdiction of the tribunal. This will always violate the principle of independence of the Court and its separation from other authorities and the principle of the division and balance of the authorities. It is also unconstitutional to set a time limit for a hearing on an application, e.g. a group of Members according to the order of influence of the cases to the Tribunal. The same provision has already been declared unconstitutional by the Court in Case K 47/15. According to the Court, its independence requires it to be free to rule not only by excluding the influence of other authorities on the content of its decisions but also on the course of the procedure for issuing them. The Venetian Commission took the same position a few days later, following its ruling of 9 March, stating that the obligation to rule in a strictly defined chronological order would be incompatible with the European standard. The Court must be able to decide on certain cases before others. It is equally unconstitutional to empower the President to decide to skip the order required by the law, which obviously does not meet this recommendation of the Venice Commission. The draft law restricts the constitutional judicial powers of the tribunal to the review of the law, i.e. to what constitutes the essence of the constitutional mission of the tribunal: to uphold the hierarchical compatibility of each legislative act with the basic law. The draft disregards the Court's right to review the power to issue a normative act and disregards the right to control other elements of the normative act than the constitutional act, although, in accordance with the settled case law of the Court, accepted by all the Court's partners, also Members who have repeatedly submitted to the Court for the control of constitutionality and relied on this principle, this argument has often been presented to the Court if the law has been proceded contrary to the accepted principles of the rule of law, if the accumulation of infringements, procedural requirements contained in the laws or regulations of the Chambers has resulted in a judgment in breach of the constitutional principle of legalism. The Court has never ruled on the compatibility of such a law with the Constitution, not on the basis of laws which regulate the political position, the procedure for proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. It will be contrary to the law that four judges rule in full. Their opposition is to automatically delay the hearing in the case by at least 3 months, and in some cases by 6 months. The time limits for the adjournment of the hearing are to be rigid and do not depend on the time when the opposing Judges draw up a proposal to settle the case. In addition, if this provision were to apply in the long term, it would conflict with the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, it would create out of 15 judges those who do against each other, revenge themselves and not rule on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution. Was that the idea of conflicting with the rights of judges elected by the High House? If not, then there is an obvious mistake of the designer. It should be taken into account that the obligation to set time limits in the order of influence of the applications would also be delayed if other applications were identified than those in which the judges raised an objection. These are provisions contrary to the principle of efficient and reliable functioning of public institutions enshrined in the preamble to the Constitution. A further provision which introduces a qualified majority of the votes necessary for a non-constitutional decision should the said opposition procedure be applied by at least four Judges is also in conflict with the law. The finding of non-compliance with the Constitution or international agreement ratified with the prior consent of the Act requires a majority of 2/3 of the votes. The requirement of such a majority to give any substantive judgment by the Court is directly incompatible with the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. The 5th Constitution, which provides that decisions of the Tribunal shall be subject to a majority of votes. The Court has already found the provision providing for the issuing of judgments by a majority of 2/3 to be incompatible with the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this This view is shared by the communist academies, the vast majority of legal authorities, including law enforcement authorities. The Venice Commission also pointed out that a change of the previously undisputed constitutional understanding of the article in Polish practice. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 5 of the Constitution, as providing for a simple majority, would require a revision of the Constitution. The draft provision is unconstitutional, according to which the President of the Tribunal no longer manages the notice, but only addresses the application for the declaration of decisions of the Tribunal to the President of the Council of Ministers. The use of the word "application" suggests that the Prime Minister may assess this request and decide to declare or not to pronounce the judgment of the Court. This is another flagrant example of the Court's dependence on the executive authority. I remind you - the constitution provides for an absolute obligation to publish judgments of the tribunal, Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 and does not give any State authority the competence to assess their regularity. Among the EU countries, I would like to emphasise in particular that Poland would become the only exception to a country in which the validity and effectiveness of the final judicial decision would be subject to control of the authority, the executive authority. The non-constitutional effects also have an obligation to apply new rules to cases initiated and not completed before the date of its entry into force. For it involves among others. with the obligation to deal with all cases initiated in the order of their impact, regardless of the stage at which the case is dealt with. This solution aims to disorganize the work of the tribunal and thus violates inter alia. the principle of sound and efficient operation of public institutions. It is contrary to the principle enshrined in the preamble to the Constitution, and I would like to stress this once again - a similar regulation of the interim tribunal has already been declared unconstitutional in case K 47/15. The Act requires the Tribunal to settle cases brought within a year by a legal question of the court or by a constitutional complaint and not completed before the date of entry into force of the law. This is another conflict with the constitution of interference in the process of ruling by the Tribunal in breach of its independence and separation, affecting its constitutional integrity. It violates the principle of the division and balance of the authorities. The draft provides for the suspension for 6 months of all pending proceedings initiated by proposals to supplement these applications in accordance with the requirements set out in the proposed law. The time limit for the suspension of proceedings shall be independent of the time when the applications are completed. Such interim regulation will inevitably result in a drastic delay in the issuing of judgments in many cases, which violates the constitutional principle of sound and efficient functioning of public institutions. The draft also contains a provision in which the decision of the Tribunal in breach of the Law of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Tribunal in the period from 10 March 2016 to 30 June 2016 - today we were to issue a further judgment, but because the vice-president of the Tribunal, a member of the formation of the Tribunal, is here in the Chamber, will pass a judgment by a different date - shall be published in the relevant official journal within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the proposed law. The determination of a 30-day period for the publication of judgments may mistakenly imply that its observance is sufficient to fulfil the constitutional obligation to publish the judgments of the Tribunal without delay, which is, after all, a direct result of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 2 sentences of the first constitution. It's incomprehensible why art. 91 of the draft disregards the constitutional obligation to publish the judgment of 9 March 2016 in case K 47/15, which the Venice Commission considered as a starting point for resolving the constitutional crisis. I also point out that Parliament is not competent to assess the correctness of the Court's application of the provisions of the Law on the Court's ruling process. The elements of the procedure for selecting an indeterminate number of candidates for the positions of President and Vice-President of the Tribunal are unconstitutional. The draft provides that there must be at least three of them chosen from among the judges of the tribunal who, in a secret ballot, obtained the highest number of votes. At the same time, the drafter shall limit to 1 the number of votes held by the judge by a member of the General Assembly of Judges in that election act. As a result, the candidate will also be a judge who has received only one vote, e.g. That's when the other two got seven. A person who has received one vote cannot be considered a candidate for the general assembly, contrary to the will of this assembly. It's an art, isn't it? Paragraph 194. 2nd Constitution requires that candidates for President and Vice-President be presented to the General Assembly, so not against the will of the General Assembly that candidates be presented to the President. The draft indicates that the judges of the Tribunal who have taken an oath against the President of the Republic and have not taken the duties of Judge before the date of entry into force of this Act shall, as from the date of its entry into force, include and assign cases to the formations of the Tribunal. Application of Article 92 of the proposed law would lead to an unconstitutional nullification of the effects of the judgment of 3 December 2015 in case K 34/15. This would mean a clear violation of the Constitution. In its judgment in Case K 34/15, the Court removed doubts as to the constitutionality of the legal procedure for the selection of three Judges by the Sejm of the previous term of office. That is why their choice is constitutionally important, and the President is constitutionally obliged to take their vows. The President of the Tribunal has a constitutional obligation to execute the judgment in Case K 34/15 and must not allow the three persons elected to take their seats before having been effectively filled by the Sejm. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 92, however, can be understood as calling on the President of the Republic to allow three constitutional judges elected on 8 October last year to take the oath in his presence. We are talking about the Constitutional Court Act, which is one of the most important laws of the state. Nothing but an act of evil will is therefore a 14-day vacathio legis. The Court will not only not be able to adapt to the Act but will also not be able to rule on it before its entry into force if a request from eligible entities was received and the President would not exercise the power to apply for a preventive review of the Act. The Venice Commission has also indicated that the Court must be able to review the law which regulates its functioning before it enters into force. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible and worth introducing a reform, also in order to make the Polish country stronger and more efficient. However, the boundaries of reforms are defined by a constitution which Parliament and other authorities must respect. This means that power must not be everything. I strongly stress that when you adopt the Constitutional Court Act, you cannot exceed the limits set by the Constitution. Otherwise, you will create not a bill, but an appearance of it. Western democracy is not only about the fact that parliamentary, local and presidential elections are held on a regular basis, and that power includes those who have won the most votes. It is also based on the fact that power by law is exercised by three balancing, mutually inhibiting and cooperating segments, i.e. legislative, executive and judicial powers. In 1991, John Paul II wrote in the encyclical Centesimus annus: "It is advisable that each authority be balanced by other authorities and other areas of competence that would maintain it within the appropriate limits. That is the rule of the rule of the rule of law, in which the supreme authority has the right, not the self-will of men. The basis for the three divisions of the authorities is the mutual restraint of those authorities. One of these mechanisms is the control of constitutionality, usually exercised by a constitutional court or by the Supreme Court. The mere fact that certain detailed arrangements concerning the powers of the constitutional court and the procedures in force before it are accepted in another country is irrelevant to our country. In any case, the law adopted by the Polish Parliament must correspond to our constitution. In addition, it is worth recalling that constitutional control is also carried out in other EU countries and, contrary to some statements, in the Netherlands by the Supreme Court. In 2014 I myself voted in Vienna on behalf of the Constitutional Court in favour of the request of the Supreme Court of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to become a member of the Conference of European Constitutional Courts. The State aspiring to this prestigious organization must demonstrate that its court, in this case the Supreme Court, exercises real control over the constitutionality of the law and rules incompatible with the Constitution in matters pending before the Supreme Court, refers to the general states. Since 1989, our country has consistently implemented the values of western legal culture. Its foundations are the rule of law, the primacy of the constitution and the division of power. We have done so successfully, and that is why we have naturally become members of the Council of Europe and the European Union. Today, when deciding on the adoption of the new Constitutional Court Act in the proposed form, you decide whether Poland will maintain this course or reject the values on which the western legal culture is based. Today we decide whether we will remain part of the West or whether we will begin our return to the East. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Can I have a formal one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. With a formal request from Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! I'd like to ask for an adjournment and a convocation of the Senior Convention to instruct President Rzepliński... [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Wow!]] ...that he has the right in the Sejm to represent only the position of the Constitutional Tribunal, not his own private. There was no general meeting of judges, no general assembly at which the judges would take the floor and together create a position that... Mr Rzepliński presented his private, political position here. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, there was a similar attempt, an attempt to present a position actually of some of the workers who were referred to us as the position of the tribunal. There was no such position. There was also a position, the comments of Judge Muszyński. In the same way as President Rzepliński is politically speaking here, other judges should also have the right to speak individually... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ... because the position of the tribunal as an organ was not, and Mr Rzepliński has the right to act, only by representing the tribunal outside and not himself. I ask you to instruct the President on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u141	Thank you, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, the counterclaim.]] Please, Mr Myrch, with the opposite proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! I would ask that Mrs Pavłowicz be instructed in the break...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u143	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u144	That's a negative conclusion. It'll be justified. [[I'm gonna take a break. And you?]] [[Voice from the room: Same as Mrs. Pavlowicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u145	On the basis of which article of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u146	On the basis of the article. 184. It's a counterclaim not to announce a break right now. We are in the process of examining the report of the committee of justice and I would ask, Mr Marshal, because you are in the presence of the Sejm and the seriousness of this institution, in order not to allow such speeches as Mrs Pawłowicz had just given herself, insulting the President of the Constitutional Tribunal present here in the Chamber, who, according to the letter of law, represents this institution, yes? [[Applause]] I would ask you to apologize for your scandalous statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u147	Thank you, sir. [[There was no courtship.]] Mr Krystyna Pawłowicz, while guarding the seriousness of the House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is also highly inappropriate for Mr Krystyna Pawłowicz to be insulted. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: But when did he offend?]] Thank you kindly and please take the floor of your representative... Calm down, please. [[A voice from the room: Nice measure!]] Please take the floor of the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Mr Jarosław Marciniak, because there was a question addressed to your representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. You're welcome. [[A voice from the hall: The Marshal is not a Marshal of the Sejm, he is a PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u148	Tall Marshal! High Izbo! President of the Constitutional Tribunal! How arrogant and self-righteous it is to treat the Poles you represent in this way. Look behind the windows today at people who will protest on the streets of all Polish cities. At the last meeting, in which I had the honour to attend, I presented a draft law on the Constitutional Court, a project which contained a vision, a project which ensured the smooth functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, independence from the executive authority and the legislative authority. I also said then that those who fear the law, the courts and the Constitutional Tribunal have no good intentions. [[Voice from the room: Just what?]] You, the State of Law and Justice, in front of the whole of Poland, in front of Europe and the whole free world have shown that you do not have good intentions. Tall Marshal! High Izbo! From this point I ask: What happened to the citizens' bill on the Constitutional Court? You had three projects to consider: the Law and Justice project - it was a draft of the whole new law, a civic project - it was also a draft of the whole law, as well as a project of PSL - it was a draft of amendments to the law currently in force. Professor Rzepliński, the president of the tribunal, said that this project, which came out of the committee's work, would create an act with only the appearance of a bill. And I'll tell you more: what's happening here is a form of democracy. [[Applause]] The high marshal sent these projects I mentioned earlier to a committee meeting. You did this because the projects concerned the same issue: the Constitutional Tribunal. The Commission was to draw up a joint report on these projects, but, High Izbo, the committee drew up a new law on the Constitutional Court. The report you have had an opportunity to learn does not refer at any point to the civil project. Again, where's the civic project? What the parliamentary committee has proposed is a nonsense project whose evident unconstitutionality has been confirmed in the opinion of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Bar Council, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the General Treasury. Citizens signed up to a specific project with concrete solutions, appreciated by the same entities, which pointed to the gross non-constitutionality of what the Law and Justice Club proposed. What the parliamentary committee has presented is a hybrid created from what was the most unconstitutional in all your four ongoing projects concerning the tribunal. Do you really want to convince citizens that you have combined the PiS project and the citizens' project? These projects can't be combined. What is constitutional cannot be combined with what stands in a clear contradiction with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Are you saying that the committee and the subcommittee have combined with these projects the project proposed by PSL? After all, the PSL project concerned the Act of June 25. It was a draft of changes, it wasn't a draft of a new bill. Each law introduced into the Sejm must be examined by the High Chamber, and so it did not happen with our law. You want to lie to the whole world that it was the citizens - your law - who wanted to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal? You want to lie to the Poles about saving the tribunal? I don't find the right words to describe this lack of finesse, the lack of sublimation on the part of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] You didn't answer the questions we were asking you at the subcommittee meeting, which wasn't recorded. All you said was that you were gonna be based on the law and justice project. Just as your feature is a simplified understanding of democracy, your approach to us, citizens, will be disastrous for you. Poles! Europo! All the Free World! It is here that those who have promised dialogue, understanding, maintaining the rule of law and restoring the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal have been sitting here for the past six months. That's what those people who lied to your eyes all this time look like. [[Applause]] Perhaps they want to take advantage of the ignorance of Poles, because as today's results of the exams from knowledge about society - with an average of 27% And it's only at 30% that we have the opportunity to pass... It shows best, it shows that someone is trying to take advantage of the ignorance of the citizens... [[Who led her to it?]] ...by introducing the kind of project that came out of the committee. This project - the CODE project - restored its proper place in our country to the tribunal. This project followed the recommendations of the Venice Commission. This project was in line with the European Commission's recommendations. Finally, this project, most importantly, complied with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, this project - the project of PiS - is another little fine-tuning act, a little fine-tuning attack on the Constitutional Tribunal. Everyone now sees what the Law and Justice have clearly shown, that you do not care about any compromise, that you do not care about any good of Poland and Poles. You've shown that you care about fulfilling your own idée fixe and no one can stop you from doing that. You have shown that you have no respect for the voice of the citizens, that you have no respect for the constitution and the sovereign who bound you with this constitution. You have shown the whole free world that you have no rule of law standards, a functioning, independent Constitutional Court. Tall Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, In particular, Members of the Law and Justice and the Kukiz Club15. Why do you propose a law that is in serious conflict with the demands of Polish legal authorities and the Venice Commission, supported by Polish civil society? It is not necessary to examine this project deeply to see what the Law and Justice want with their voices, rejecting the comments of the Venice Commission, on which the opinion wants to invoke at once. For example, the Venice Commission made it clear in paragraph 43 of its opinion that the standards of European and international law require that every judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal be respected. In the meantime, the PiS project contains an article. 91, which is everything that violates the fundamental principles of the rule of law. They are embezzled because the legislator states that he has the right to decide what judgments will be or will not be published. Moreover, it clearly stresses in its draft that the judgment of 9 March 2016 is to remain unpublished. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid to admit that you want to pass an unconstitutional bill? Because the justification of the March 9 judgment clearly indicates that. The Venice Commission, as well as the Court itself in its judgments of 3 and 9 December 2015, concluded that the three judges elected constitutionally for their term of office starting in November should be sworn in. On the other hand, in breach of the principles of the independence of the judiciary, the PiS project requires the President of the Tribunal to include them in the formations and assign cases to them. Messengers and Members of the PiS, control yourselves. You want to force the bill to break the constitution. This provision of the law cannot be enforced because it directly calls on the President of the Tribunal to break the constitutional rule interpreted by the judgment of the Tribunal. By adopting this provision, you break the law at the same time. It's another sign of a lack of thought and finesse. The Venice Commission pointed out - as the Court did in its judgment of 9 March - that it was not possible to order the Court to rule by a majority of 2/3 of its votes, since the Constitution expressly prejudices that the judgments of the Court fall by a majority. Meanwhile, your project in art. 69 requires the Constitutional Tribunal to deliver a ruling by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. This is to be followed by a judge's veto procedure that the democratic rule of law has never been heard of. The Venice Commission - as well as the Constitutional Tribunal itself in its judgment of 9 March - stressed that it was unacceptable to introduce an obligation to rule in order of the impact of the proposals. However, the draft Law and Justice clearly states that the Court is to deal with the conclusions in order to influence them to the Court. Members, do you think that voters cannot read? That they wouldn't know how much you're trying to paralyze the tribunal again? I am most terrified of what is at the heart of the procedural news proposed by the Law and Justice. Their foundation is the belief, the Soviet mentality, that the law can do anything. It is possible to enter into the jurisdiction of the tribunal and to neutralise its judgment by law. It is possible to enter into the powers of the President of the Tribunal and impose upon him who he is to allow to work against the judgment of the Tribunal and thus against the Constitution. It is possible to enter into a sphere directly related to the judicial sphere and thus to the exclusive competence of the judicial authority, and to impose upon it the order in which it is to settle cases. You can write a recipe under specific persons, under Andrzej Duda and Zbigniew Ziebra, which will enable them to interfere in the internal proceedings of the tribunal. Why are you even referring to the President and the Attorney General in the bill? It's not the institutions you're after, it's the people. Write straight: Andrzej Duda, Zbigniew Ziobro, give them the full moon [[Applause]] power over the tribunal and our state. After all, there will not be an efficient tribunal which will repeal these rules. Next, you can finally do everything you can to cause internal conflicts within the jurisdiction of the judiciary, e.g. create absurd institutions of the jury's veto to paralyze the tribunal. Messengers and Members of Law and Justice! So I ask you: Are you going to soon enter the powers of the judiciary even further and remove specific judges, by their names, by the laws they have passed? Are you going to sentence more people to prison by law? Messengers and Members of Law and Justice! Understand how scary what you're doing is. By adopting the Tribal Act, you change the understanding of the laws adopted in every constitutional democracy. You can't do everything in the bill. The law cannot impose upon the President of the court, who he is to take to work individually, in which order cases have to be dealt with, regardless of their gravity, when they are allowed and when judges are not allowed to hold hearings and adjudicate. By law, no one can be deprived of the judicial office or removed from the judgment of the tribunal. None of this is in the Sejm's jurisdiction. The Sejm cannot usurp this power by breaking the constitutional principle of division of power, because the legislative power of Parliament does not mean sovereignty. In the past elections, you have won a certain number of seats in the Seym and the Senate, most of the seats. This means that you have a decisive influence on legislation in our country, but you must not, because you do not have such power, nor change the constitution, nor enter into the powers of the non-political authorities, primarily the Constitutional Tribunal and the courts. How much longer will you wait for the European Union and the Council of Europe to have to get us out of their ranks? After all, in order to be part of these organizations, you have to meet certain requirements, requirements that you break the bill that you are deliberating on. This project has nothing to do with the project presented by the citizens. You have been given a mandate to perform your duties in accordance with the Constitution, you have not been given a mandate to act above it. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The NATO summit is about to begin in Poland. Why, here I ask Members of the Law and Justice, a debate on Polish security? Why do you want to deprive Poland of meaning in an organization that ensures peace in Europe and in the world? You are showing, or actually you have already shown, that you are not a party that cares about the rule of law, and only the rule of law can expect the states of the North Atlantic Pact to support them. Why do you want to expose Polish society to the dangers of the modern world? Take it easy, stop this pathetic game. You have already shown that you do not listen to the Constitutional Tribunal, you have shown that you do not want to listen to the international community, you have finally shown that you have the Constitution and the voice of the citizens of the Polish state for nothing. However, if you have a little courage, you will not touch the provision on the possibility of the Court to examine the Court's Law beyond the order of influence of the proposals. If you're honest with what you're doing, you're gonna allow the tribunal to speak up and identify which rules are unconstitutional. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, acting on behalf of the Civil Committee of the Legislative Initiative, I would like to state that I am withdrawing the bill. The work on the project so far proved that according to the unsavory tradition of Polish legislative culture, the voice of citizens in the process of lawmaking has once again been ignored by the authorities. The reading of the report by the Sejm committee makes it clear that the effect of its work almost entirely coincides with the parliamentary proposal submitted by the members of the governing party. None of the proposals made by citizens have been taken into account. Over 100,000 were ignored in this way. citizens who not only signed the bill but also collected these signatures. The authority that so likes to appeal to the will of the sovereign nation honors it just as the national authority once respected the workers. For these reasons, we have decided to withdraw our project. We don't want to company fiction, we don't want to allow it to appear that the people's voice was in the process. [[Applause]] work on the draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal of any importance. By withdrawing our project, I would like to remind you that according to the article. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Poland is the common good of all citizens, including those who did not vote for the governing party. The relationship to them is a good indicator of the real and not just the declared democratism of the state system. Given how the authorities acted with the citizens' bill on the Court, it must be said, unfortunately, that today's Poland and democracy have little to do with it. I think that the law and justice procedure, how you rejected the opportunity to resolve the crisis and to ensure independence for the tribunal, has clearly demonstrated to the international community what it is dealing with. Finally, I call on everyone in Poland who really cares about this country, so that it can... [[About our country, about Poland.]] ...be with us normally to go out and protest against what the Law and Justice are doing today. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, beautiful performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u149	This time, please take the floor of the representative of the applicants, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. You're welcome, sir. [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all those Members who made a constructive contribution to the legislative work during the work of the subcommittee and the committees. I would like to thank, in particular, Members of my political group, but also, above all, Members of the Polish People's Party, as well as Members of the Kukiz Club15, who in fact joined the discussion and tabled amendments. I am very grateful for this debate today. I did not expect it to expose the causes of the conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal in this way. Today, all Poles could see who caused the conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal and what this conflict was all about. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: You caused it.]] Boris Budka said today: Yes, it was our mistake. But that's what this mistake should be called: we broke the constitution. Very nice, softly called it a mistake. These are his words: We have made a mistake. He said this in the context of the June Act, which later gave rise to the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, because it was cast, they wanted to fill the entire Constitutional Tribunal with their members. [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] [[Two tribunals, three tribunals.]] On 15 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Platform wanted to introduce 14. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Most of which you supported.]] [[Did someone bother you?]] Today we know what it was about. And this was also said today by someone other than Mr Boris Budka. [[Yeah, because no one lied.]] Because he said this: the Constitutional Tribunal is the last bastion. And I will add, in agreement with Mr Budka: Yes, this is the last bastion, only the last bastion of the Third Republic. [[Applause]] [[Mr. and Mrs. PiS.]] With the help of the Constitutional Court, you want to defend the former treaty. What was the deal? Today, the Member - here I do not mention his name, because he will want to refer to it, but the time will come that I will call him - accusing me of my past, he did it unfairly and he knows well that he is not telling the truth. This issue repeatedly... [[I asked the question.]] But you've asked that question many times before. I feel disgusted when I say the same things again. I answered that question and quoted the documents as well. [[Voice from the room: Lies!]] And today, too, I have this document that shows who I was at the time and what I was doing. You know it well, and yet you say it isn't true. [[The D.A.'s over there.]] You say you're not defending the old post-communist system. [[Guys!]] And who buried with the honors of the state the founder of martial law? [[Applause]] Who buried General Jaruzelski with national honors? It was you who did it. And today you have the audacity to make any accusations against me? [[Voice from the room: We do.]] [[Voice from the room: Because you were the applicant.]] That is why I am answering the questions that have been raised to the applicants. I am very grateful that you have asked these questions because I can relate to all of this. [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell at us.]] Yes, you do see it as Mr Boris Budka said: the Constitutional Tribunal is a bastion. I will add: the Third Republic. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: It's the bastion of the law.]] Citizens want change, and with the help of the Constitutional Court, you wanted to block any change despite the lost elections. Because that's your intention. [[We'll see in four years.]] Finally, it must be said that today I am grateful to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Andrzej Rzepliński, because if anyone had doubts about the role that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal plays today, he had the opportunity and opportunity to find out today. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal has been the leading policy of the Civic Platform for a long time. [[Mr. Marshal, those words don't fit.]] [[Voice from the room: This is a scandal.]] I mean, it's clear, it's all...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u151	Excuse me, sir. [[Please respond.]] Mr President, please calm down. You're being inappropriate. I'm calling you into order. [[But, Marshal, please respond. This is the president...]] Proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u152	This is all that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal said today at the subcommittee and committee meetings. You said that because Mr Rzepliński had already provided you with arguments. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[No, first...]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But those are the standards.]] President Rzepliński assessed the draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal before it even started its legislative process. [[Yes, sir.]] Already then he stated that the project was unconstitutional, and he referred to all the provisions of this law. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Because it is in judgment.]] The question arises, Mr. President of the Court: On what legal basis did you act then? There is a question that I ask once again, because it is you, and following your example today's opposition, that refers to the concept of a democratic rule of law. So I dare ask: On what legal basis did the Constitutional Tribunal declare its position on 9 March? I still haven't heard it. Speaking of a state of law, there must be a legal basis for such action. [[Yes, sir.]] Art. The 7th constitution, which the opposition is waving, but which, as you can see, does not know or which it wants to present in a selective manner, clearly states: public authorities are obliged to act on the basis of and within the law. [[Tell that to the Prime Minister.]] On the basis of what law did the tribunal proceed on 9 March? After all, the President of the Tribunal then said: I do not see this law. It's an anarchy element. On what legal basis could the President of the Tribunal have said so? [[What is the basis for refusing to publish?]] [[Shut up.]] There is a presumption of constitutionality of the law. [[From what?]] Mr. President mentioned today, [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] it also has expectations of Parliament that if Parliament adopts the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Tribunal should examine it before this law enters into force. And I ask myself: From what legal basis do you derive this kind of expectation? What's the basis for that? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] Where does the Constitution say that before the Constitutional Court Act enters into force, it must be audited by the Constitutional Court? There is no such provision, and therefore the President of the Court should not express himself in a manner which is contrary to the Constitution. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Genius.]] First of all, since we are talking about a state of law, it means that the law must be respected. [[One batch, one right.]] [[This has nothing to do with the law.]] You're referring to democracy. And what is democracy? [[What's after the Polish People's Republic.]] Maybe it's a faulty system, but it's the majority. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The State, in the mouth of the President, has also made some sense of this, you are taking away the right of the parliamentary majority to decide. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] These voices did not appear when its questionable reforms and laws were introduced by the Civic Platform, although it did not have the social legitimacy that the Law and Justice have today. [[That's what she had.]] At the time I did not hear such voices from President Rzepliński that you have no right. You have no right to speak on behalf of all Poles. [[Yes, sir.]] But we speak for the majority. You're hiding from civil rights, you're hiding from the constitution, and you're talking about defending the old establishment... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: No, it is not.]] [[Yes, sir.]] ...to prevent any changes expected by society. [[You don't know what you're saying.]] [[The gomula is always alive.]] [[Listen up, buddy.]] [[He sent Budki.]] You also said a lot of lies about the bill itself. It was mentioned by the representative of the citizens' initiative that the Law and Justice and Civil Project cannot be reconciled. That's what he said from the speaker today. I wrote those words down. And he was right, as he said, because the citizens' initiative project, in short, aims to re-activate the June 2015 Act. [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: But do you listen to citizens or do you not listen?]] This is the first case. Here's the other thing. Since these projects cannot be reconciled with each other, it is illegal to expect that much of the bill will be drawn to the final project that came out of the justice commission. I think that's understandable, because that's the logic. [[100,000. citizens.]] In the vast majority of cases, the bill is based on the 1997 Act. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is a lie, just a lie.]] We've been pointing out specific rules. It can be said that 90% of this is the 1997 law. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Lying.]] [[And finally, not a constitution.]] But I'm used to slogans that are not supported by factual arguments, which is why I'm not surprised that you have nothing but lies on your mouth, deception, so you're programmed. [[Because you're lying.]] And I'm stuck in reality and concrete, which is why I have these specifics. [[That's until the previous era.]] And you say... Indeed, the Law and Justice of 1997 introduced their own amendments, which is perfectly understandable. As a governing group, it has the right to play an important role in creating political reality in the state. I don't think there's any doubt about that. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Obedience.]] But it is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen, that we have adopted solutions. Some, because I'm not saying all of them. It is not possible to reconcile, as you said on the citizens' initiative. Of course, we know that, too, that we can't reconcile. We've accepted the conclusions. As regards the citizens' initiative, there was a proposal that actually matched the project presented by us that each judge of the Constitutional Tribunal could vote for one candidate. This is part of the bill. The Polish People's Party proposed an amendment, which also to some extent corresponds to our project, but we thought that the amendment was wider, further moving. We accepted this amendment concerning the allocation of cases by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. As regards the Civic Platform, we have also accepted the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform. [[That's the title of the chapter.]] If you do not remember, I will quote this amendment. Namely, disciplinary proceedings at the Constitutional Court take place in two instances, in the first instance in the composition of five Judges, in the second instance in the composition of seven Judges. [[Otherwise, there wouldn't be a squad.]] [[Quiet.]] [[Don't shut me up, Member.]] We've taken your amendment into account, but you can see the finale is this kind of thing. If we show good will and accept it, then it is said, We have helped you, for you have created a booze. That's the reaction. There's no fair and honest assessment. Yeah, we're open. [[Voice from the Chamber: For the liquidation of the Union.]] If the opposition has something good to offer, we accept it. That's how we tried the bill. [[Staszek, you have no shame.]] [[You can't listen to that normally.]] Of course, we could not accept all the amendments because they destroyed the whole concept. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Jarosław Kaczyński, right?]] After all, it is worth saying what we have introduced into this law, if you say that it is all so unconstitutional. We've put in a case-recognition order. [[Congratulations.]] But it's worth it in this House. [[The president's in.]] Contrary to the statements made here by some Members who either have not read the bill or have deliberately misled the order of recognition concerns only the conclusions. [[Donkeys.]] It does not concern citizens' complaints and does not concern legal questions. And it's worth remembering that. The Venice Commission, which you so repeatedly rely on, nowhere in any place has questioned as a rule the identification of cases in order. However, she pointed out that this provision must be flexible... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would be very grateful to Mrs Pihowicz for stopping her emotions and allowing her to continue as she goes to plenary. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected.]] So, about... [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: But you have the emotions of an MEP.]] As far as the order of case identification is concerned, as I said, this does not apply to citizens' complaints and does not concern legal questions as well. The Venice Commission merely pointed out that it was necessary to provide for a certain degree of flexibility in determining the order in which cases should be dealt with, and to create certain gates and opportunities, so that, however, in situations of particular justification, a derogation could be made. And indeed, in this respect, we have met the request of the Venice Commission. [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: What?]] The law proposed by us provides for a number of exceptions, according to which a particular category of cases may be recognised outside the order and, which is worth noting, the Constitutional Court Act is also one of these exceptions. There is also a clear provision that the Constitutional Tribunal may derogate from the principle of order and may proceed to the recognition of the Constitutional Court Act outside the order. It's worth remembering. [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: But maybe he will remember the whole opinion of the committee?]] We have also introduced provisions in the law that in the most important matters, however, the court should rule in full court. And I don't think there's any doubt that important matters require the entire tribunal, or at least 11 judges of this tribunal, to investigate this case in order to raise the profile of this ruling, so that there really is more consideration before it decides that some legal act is not in line with the Constitution. I don't know when democracy would be threatened by the fact that the tribunal would rule not in five members, but in eleven members. [[That's a good record.]] [[Exactly.]] It is also worth paying attention to what shows that we are open to the opposition's voices. This is how you questioned the possibility for the President and the Attorney General to bring the case into full court because of their intricacy. And here too, if it really hurts, if you don't trust the President and the Attorney General... [[Oh, no, we don't.]] ...that's why we've come up against it - we've tabled an amendment. We have tabled an amendment to that effect that we will not really entrust this power to either the prosecutor general or the president. This shows our flexibility, our openness to agreement and compromise. On the other hand, you do not want to go back in any way, even half a step, and we are still under attack by you. [[Poor you.]] But the role of the opposition is to control the rulers. However, I would be very grateful if it were a constructive control, a control supported by arguments, rather than a lie-type statement, a blockage of the tribunal, because I never heard the answer to the question: show me this mechanism blocking the tribunal. [[Member of Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Non-publication of judgments.]] [[What were you doing on the committee?]] [[Quiet!]] For does the expectation that, in some categories of cases, the tribunal will rule in full court, that is, blocking the tribunal, whether it is fulfilling the constitution which [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] provides that the Constitutional Tribunal shall consist of 15 Judges? [[What were you doing on the committee, like we said?]] [[Quiet!]] It is not true that the bill contains paralyzing mechanisms, and here I also want to reassure you. Art. 68 is so constructed that it is necessary to be prudent to make a judgment stating the non-constitutionality of a provision. A misunderstanding is what one of your fellow Members has done here, which has compared the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal to the functioning of the General Court. The Constitutional Tribunal is not a court of fact, it is a court of law, and therefore, as long as the law is in force, it uses the presumption of constitutionality. If the Court intends to make an assessment, it is important that the Constitutional Court is almost universally convinced that the provision in question is a non-constitutional provision, so we want the Constitutional Tribunal to have time and opportunity for a prudent approach to the case. Hence the interruption at the request of at least four judges, the possibility of reflection. After all, we know perfectly well - you don't need to be a psychologist to know - that a man needs a little more time to change his view besides the facts. Therefore, the solutions proposed are in line with this. You questioned that after the second such meeting, if there was no consensus, if there was no agreement - that was the rule - that really let the ruling... It is worth noting that the provision was so designed that only if the tribunal was inclined to establish non-constitutionality would it have a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Since your fractions are in danger, especially this fraction, we have also shown flexibility here and, today, our club's representative has spoken about it - we have tabled an appropriate amendment, we are giving up this provision. So after two meetings - maybe one, but no more than two meetings - when there is no conciliation, there is no agreement, there is a vote and the decision falls by a simple majority. So that it is not entitled to state which of the speakers came from that article. 68 provides an opportunity to reconstruct infinity. No. There must be a vote after the second meeting. That's how the recipe is made. It is clear that you do not want to compromise, the Venice Commission, the unwillingness to compromise. What can I say about that? You'll know them by their fruits. I refer to the facts, I refer to what we took into account from the opposition, I refer to what we gave up and what the opposition wanted from us. On the other hand, all I hear is the generals and the nudists, and once the nudity is missing, it's a personal attack on the committee's applicant. But it's a sign of weakness, and I think it's a sign of... [[What did you call me?]] [[But don't...]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u153	Mr President, please do not argue with Parliamentary benches. [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: The challenge must take responsibility.]] [[What did you call me? Can you remind me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u154	You say: publication of all judgments. Not every position is a judgment, and the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is probably well aware of that. There's no legal basis for calling what happened on March 9th a judgment, because I've never heard what the legal basis is. Since it was said, actually, the President, because it was the President who said that he did not see this law, so he will apply the constitution directly, I ask, as always, and which article. I'm asking because it's art. 8 decides whether the Constitution can be applied directly and this Article. 8 says this: the constitution is applied directly unless the constitution provides otherwise. After all, the President knows very well that the Constitution is different. [[That's right, Art. 197.]] In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 197 says that the organisation of the court's work and the procedure before it are governed by the law. It would appear from your statement that the attempt at working on the Constitutional Tribunal Act was an attempt on the independence of the tribunal, an attempt on the independence of the judiciary. I understand why such attachment to the Act of June 2015 and not only from the state, today's opposition, is also a attachment from President Rzepliński. After all, he wrote this bill and therefore weapons all these records clingyly today. I'd be ashamed to defend something so clingy that I'm the author and yet speak on behalf of the tribunal... [[And what are you doing now, from this podium?]] ...with no I.D. on it. I'm talking about the bill... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u155	Mr. President, I'm sorry. Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u156	...which I present, and as an applicant, I have the right... [[Wait, Stasiek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u157	Mr President, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Mr Myrch, I call you to order. You are still disturbing the applicant. All the time. [[Every once in a while.]] I would very much like to ask you to hold back your emotions and allow the applicant to complete the answer, among others. to your questions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u158	They asked whether the March 9 judgment should be published. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: What about the Polish People's Republic?]] Sentences do, but it is well known that in the state of law all rights must be respected. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochocka: We are no longer in the state of law.]] The Constitutional Tribunal cannot stand above the law. You are covered by civil rights, and on a good case, you want to create a Tribal republic. [[Yes, sir.]] I am grateful for this phrase, because it actually gives the essence of things. You say three divisions of power. Of course, yes, but you're forgetting, and if it's only in the verbal sphere that there's still a balance between the authorities. [[Yes, sir.]] And it's up to anyone to influence the Constitutional Tribunal, how it's supposed to judge, that's within the limits of judicial independence. But it's a constitution... [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: Why are you introducing such...]] ...puts an obligation on Parliament to determine the organisation of the tribunal and determine the procedure before this tribunal, and you question it. [[No.]] And why does the Constitution provide for such powers for Parliament? Because it is precisely that Parliament is creating a bill for the Constitutional Tribunal that is the balance of the authorities. [[Yes, sir.]] Otherwise, it's just an illusion, an illusion that we're dealing with the balance of the authorities. In order to balance the authorities, instruments are needed to ensure that this balance can be implemented. Therefore, the tribunal is independent in the area of judgment, but Parliament decides how the Constitutional Tribunal will be organised and how the court will proceed. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: And by the way, can you publish.]] You want to question that. You think there's any regulation, because that's the general reception... [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochock: But the Venice Commission feels the same way.]] [[Quiet!]] ...any regulation concerning the Constitutional Tribunal is an attempt on the independence and independence of the Tribunal. [[Member of King Gajewska-Płochocka: Be quiet yourself, woman.]] I'd like to stress that I never do personal things like that... I try, but when I'm provoked, unfortunately I just have to show it. Today, the problem of the Constitutional Tribunal is the President of the Tribunal. There's no doubt about that. Has it ever occurred to anybody that the president of the tribunal would embezzle the principle of apoliticity... [[Or that socialism will fall.]] ...that the president of the tribunal will lead the opposition? Have you ever... [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Has it ever occurred to anyone that someone would break the constitution?]] And that's why the Constitution gave far-reaching prerogatives because no one thought it, no one dreamed that the Constitutional Tribunal would become a weapon in the hands of the opposition. [[Yes, sir.]] [[It's a brake on total power.]] [[I think it's total opposition.]] You constantly suspect us - because from what I see, there is no argument that we have done something wrong - you constantly suspect us of intentions. Such questions were constantly asked: What are you going to do? What fate are you going to prepare? Ladies and gentlemen, it's like you think we are. Because you obviously had impure intentions, you all suspect it today. There are facts behind us. We served Poland and served Poles. [[And myths.]] And when it was impossible, in a democratic way... [[You're leaving tracks.]] ... We gave in to the Sovereign's judgment, and the Sovereign chose what he chose. And after eight years, he said that he regretted that he had made such a choice at that time, and proof of that is that he entrusted power to those who at that time proved to be an idea and that authority had given away, because they exercised this authority not to benefit from it, but to serve the State and serve the nation. And you always suspect something, and at the same time you have no arguments to justify that kind of suspicion. You're saying it's an express pace. We're working by the book. We work in accordance with the rules of procedure at the subcommittee meetings. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: No, it is not.]] Everyone could speak as many times as they wanted, whenever they wanted, and speak on every subject. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: A lie.]] I am very pleased that you remind me of this because I forgot to refer to it. The same was true in the justice commission. As many times as anyone wanted to speak, he took it. Some of them spoke a few times... [[A few dozen.]] ... They repeated the same thing, read the same documents, most of today's speech by President Andrzej Rzepliński. As for the media, since this question was raised, before the committee meeting, it was to agree the secretariat of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights with the media that because the whole meeting of the committee is being broadcast because they are registered by the Seym Cameras... [[But they didn't.]] ...because everyone... Oh, yes, they did. [[No, there was no transmission.]] Each committee meeting shall be transmitted. Please don't mislead people. [[It wasn't.]] People called me, watched me... [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: But they also called us and said it wasn't there.]] ...and they said that perfectly... [[There was a technical problem.]] [[Quiet.]] But it's being broadcast online, and everyone knows it. But since you're denying the obvious facts, it's your credibility. Well, I'm afraid so. It is. I'm even happy when one of my opponents denies the obvious facts because he's sinking, making his situation worse, except for any dispute. That's because we had a small room. The chairman of the justice committee has no unlimited choice. It has several salami and not all of these rooms are equipped with voting readers. The largest voting room was chosen, but the conditions were uncomfortable. Therefore, the findings were: because the transmission is online on the Internet, so let the cameras take photos, journalists can stay in the room - that was the position - and camera operators can leave the room. The opposition's protests have risen, and again this kind of protest: What do you want to hide from the citizens? So the citizens saw that we had nothing to hide. But it's amazing what's different. When, actually, in response to these demands, I ordered a larger room to be searched for, the secretariat found a room that was not at the disposal of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights - we took advantage of the courtesy of the Committee on Finance - I was very surprised that these operators, who were so anxious to do so and did not want to leave the smaller room, then did not come to the larger room. [[Where...]] That's why I know exactly what it was all about. [[He's lying.]] What was that all about? It's not about actually reporting it. And those who attended the committee meeting might have known... [[Everyone's here.]] ...that the allegations against the Law and Justice, of the type you want to hide, had no justification. There was nothing to hide. You knew the draft of the subcommittee very well, and he was mostly being prosecuted at the committee meeting. You ask the question that four judges can block the work of the tribunal. [[But that's what you said.]] No, it's not. Four judges can present their position at the meeting and appeal for further discussion and consideration, and that is what this is all about. The Constitutional Tribunal is not a court of fact, but a court of law. The questions were repeated. I've already answered some of them, and some of them just kept repeating themselves. And I'm gonna say it again, because once again, you guys are immune to facts. [[And myths.]] I didn't accuse anyone, and if I did, show me these people. Show me those people, show me the papers. You're not telling the truth. You're not telling the truth. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: And the priest of Tylawa?]] This is important and thanks to your questions I can repeat this once again. We obey the law, we obey the Constitution. We want the Constitutional Tribunal to fulfil its role, to do what it was called for to do. On the other hand, we are opposed to the instrumental political use of the Constitutional Tribunal, and we are opposed to the fact that, as Mr Boris Budka said, the Constitutional Tribunal is a bastion, and I will add: the Third Polish Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u159	Please, in the mode of correcting Mr Boris Budka. One minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u160	Mr. Marshal, my name has been mentioned four times, so I'd ask for four minutes. [[What's the point?]] We were talking about the fact that there haven't been so many lies from that speaker in a while about the previous point. Turns out it's not. I congratulate the rapporteur because in one speech you were able to make so many lies, slanders and lies... [[It's the barebacks.]] ...that it's hard to relate to. You are blocking the tribunal for one reason only because the state has a number of laws that you are introducing that are not in accordance with the Constitution. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, what has been presented here is this mentality, that is thinking, this approach to the Republic of Poland. Unlike you, Mr Reporter, I was lucky to have been raised as a constitution in 1997. What you grew up on, you set an example here, on this platform... [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Bravo!]] ...which is the basis for your thinking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I regret that you haven't been able to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u161	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u162	...understand none of my statements. [[Applause]] [[No arguments, nudists.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u163	Thank you, sir. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz also submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome. One minute to corrigendum. [[If there's only a minute, what do you say for a minute, like you said half an hour?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u164	High Izbo! That's what you have to say...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u165	Excuse me, miss. Mr President, you will calm down, really.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u166	High Izbo! This must be said directly, really: Poland is now under threat simply by the sovereignty of a narrow group of members of the PiS, a narrow group of people who are trying to get out of society's control, really, beyond any actual control of society. The State is destroying the Constitutional Tribunal, really, that is, going beyond any control granted by democratic mechanisms. You want to change the system, our Polish system, abolish an institution that is anchored in the Constitution... [[Exactly.]] ...which is the Constitutional Tribunal. Really, that's what you sometimes call dictatorship, transition from democracy to dictatorship. [[Applause]] It is not that if you have won the majority of the legislative elections, then for the first time in our country's history you can usurp the right to destroy the existence of the system... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...which was set up in the Constitution, for which 8700 thousand have voted. Polish citizens in a referendum. You're destroying democracy right now. It's like on the one hand [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is a narrow group of views of PiS...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u167	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u168	...and on the other hand there is the European Commission, the Venice Commission, the Supreme Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u169	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u170	... National Judicial Council... [[Poles, Poles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u171	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u172	...all the legal authorities and the state... [[Ma'am, take it easy.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[And we have a debate. Click, clip, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, chop, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u173	Thank you, Member. And I have such a huge request for all the ladies and gentlemen of the House: less exaltation in the Seym. [[What are we talking about here?]] And if there is a correction mode, correct it, and if there is a need for highly exalted speeches, then we have a point under the heading: Parliamentary statements. Your Marshal Dolniak also in correction mode. I just have some doubt, Marshal. Well, as far as I'm concerned, you weren't mentioned by your name. [[She wasn't.]] [[It wasn't, it wasn't, Marshal.]] That's right, my fellow Member. So I trust your marshal in correction mode. [[But we understand that this is modern democracy.]] One minute to corrigendum. [[Microphone, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] Excuse me, Marshal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u174	It is not necessary to be called by name, which is evident from the rules of procedure, but it is enough for someone to respond to our statement. This is a formal issue, therefore, Mr. Marshal, if you'll allow me to add that time to this situation. [[And I'm not referring to you.]] As regards the issue of the publication of the judgment, please state, you yourself have in your proposal that the Constitutional Tribunal will examine the compatibility of the Law on the organisation and operation of the Constitutional Tribunal by the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, I'm sorry, the split personality in this situation, since you're denying the right to pronounce a conviction? [[Applause]] That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, please tell me why you're doing a public consultation at all. Why do you ask teachers, doctors, anyone, what this bill is supposed to look like, how you deny this right to lawyers, in this case judges of the Constitutional Tribunal or universal courts? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You're sending your projects to the courts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you're asking... The Ministry of Justice is sending projects to the courts and asking... [[Time, time, ma'am.]] ...if such a judgment is possible. And then there's the third question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u175	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u176	But I have to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u177	You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u178	That's it. [[Speech outside the microphone, ringtone]] Member, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u179	Mrs... [[The truth hurts, doesn't it?]] [[Screaming hurts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u180	And the third line. The Constitution provides for a law on the organisation and mode of action of the Constitutional Tribunal, but this law cannot be in any place contrary to that Constitution. And no one denies that this organization is governed by a law, only by a law that is fair, not by a law contrary to the constitution. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]] [[How do you know it's against the constitution?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u181	Thank you kindly. I'm sorry, Your Marshal, but it was an element of polemics, not a correction... [[The others are taking the floor.]] ...and as a lively man, I also go to the head on the basis of which the High House is to rule on what is a fair law and what is an unreliable and constitutional law. [[This is the European standard.]] Thank you very much, Member. And please take the floor of the applicant... [[Rapporteur.]] ...sorry, rapporteur Bartłomiej Wróblewski. You're welcome, sir. [[Very nice gesture, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr Wróblewski, I thank you very much for your flattery and comments, but do not disturb Mr Wróblewski now. [[Aye, aye, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the presidents! Gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I appear in two ways, because, above all, as rapporteur, many of the questions that were asked also referred to me as a person representing the position of the Law and Justice Club. So, I'm asking you to forgive me that to some extent these things... [[You're an applicant.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rapporteur. [[Rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u183	Dear Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u184	As I understand it correctly, the task of this law is not to solve all the problems associated with the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is partly impossible - perhaps some issues would require constitutional regulation - because there are issues that cannot be regulated by any law, because, for example, I do not know, we are unable to regulate the customs that prevail in the Constitutional Court itself, whether we are able to regulate only to a certain extent. The second point is that the most fundamental objective of this law is to resolve one current one and, in my view, the most important problem, namely the emergence of two parallel legal orders in which some of the public and some of the law-abiding entities consider what the Constitutional Tribunal is doing to give decisions, to rule, and another part of the public opinion, the law-applied entities, to believe that these are merely decisions or positions of the Tribunal. And in that sense, I believe that this law is implementing this objective. She creates a legal basis that will not be questioned by anyone in her core. It seems to me a great value of this bill. The second point is that work will be carried out in the future - and here Prof. Majchrowski plays an important role - which will allow the creation of a new law on the Constitutional Court. [[Another one?]] I think it's going to be a completely different act that's going to be a target regulation. However, if we do not want these two independent views to be threatened by the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, it seems important to adopt this regulation at this point in time. A significant part of the comments made in this Chamber, as Mr Piotrowicz also said, is related to the fact that you did not hear what I mentioned, namely the amendments which were tabled by the Law and Justice Club concerning the waiver of the 2/3 majority requirement in certain exceptional situations and, the second point, that the full ruling could be requested by the President and the Attorney General. A large part of your speech was on this issue. Another thing is the amendments tabled by the Polish People's Party. One of them was accepted. On the other hand, I wanted to confirm what I said earlier that I thought those amendments had a very noble motivation, the intention was very good. For example, the amendment on the retiring of judges from a pragmatic point of view would solve a problem, only almost everyone, apart from the Polish People's Party, during the committee's deliberations, regardless of the divisions between us, indicated that this was a solution that raised serious constitutional doubts. Thus, the failure of the Constitutional Tribunal to comply with this request or request for a review of the case, if two thirds of the House were in favour of this, was questioned not so much because of the intention of these ideas, but rather because of their constitutionality. You don't always have to assign some bad intentions, even if a project isn't proceded or won't get the majority. In our discussions about the Constitutional Tribunal, but not just the Constitutional Tribunal, there is a lot of exaggeration, emotion, exaltation. Does it really make sense to repeat every law we discuss here, that the fate of democracy in Poland is at stake? [[Yes, sir.]] Absolutely not a sentence, I think, well-founded. We may have different views on individual solutions, but it is something else to say that I believe that such a solution in the Constitutional Court Act or in the Public Prosecutor's Office Act or in any other case raises my doubts for one reason or another, and something else is to raise the temperature of discussion and use such far-reaching statements. This also applies to the detailed solutions contained in the draft law. This is the solution to which the state, I am talking about the opposition, which you mostly referred to, is the mechanism for delaying cases by 3 months, a total of 6 months. I can understand that, in the opinion of some Members, Members, Members, Members and others, this mechanism may raise doubts as to whether this is a solution which does not restrict the efficiency of the Constitutional Tribunal. But on the other hand, I think it would be fair to say that this mechanism has certain advantages, namely that judges may be able to harm their views among themselves. In a situation that we have observed recently, when, Mr President, nine judges take one position in some matter, six other judges - another, perhaps there is also some space here to help resolve these disputes concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. In short, this mechanism should not necessarily be diabolical at a time when it has never been applied. Perhaps in a year's time, in two or five years' time, it will indeed prove that your concerns are right, but today they seem to be greatly exaggerated. Therefore, it seems unreasonable to me to say that it is blocking the sentence that it is a veto. Even if someone is reluctant to do so, it seems to me that it would be fair to weigh those rights that are in favour of such regulation. Of course, I agree with the fact that it is possible and worth discussing the details of the law at every stage of the legislative procedure, as I think it is not good to collectively formulate such condemnations and negative opinions. It is worth discussing the details of the law, especially since the example of the amendments tabled today shows that at least some issues can be dealt with. The question was why we did not take into account the amendments, the proposals of the Venice Commission. I think we've partially taken it into account. I don't think that's part of our job... [[Yes, sir.]] ...because the purpose of this law is a partial goal, not a holistic goal. Is the bill consistent with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal? In my view, there is no mechanical repetition of rules which have been declared non-constitutional, although in some cases, and this is true, there has been a modification of the rules previously recognised by the Constitutional Tribunal as non-constitutional. Take, for example. the question of investigating cases according to the order of impact. For many years, the fact that the President of the Tribunal had decreed a case to specific judges raised serious doubts in the public opinion. Mr President, the presidents disagree, but I don't have to ask anyone here because I know that this fact raised huge doubts in public opinion. So that the adoption of a model in order to make it independent of the appointment of the President or the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal seems to be a solution that can help to ensure that the tribunal is not burdened with a charge of action other than impartially. Now in the project that we are investigating, a whole series of exceptions to this principle have been created, e.g. on applications submitted by the President in a preventive control procedure, e.g. in the case of the Budget Act or the Constitutional Court Act. It seems to me that the global questioning of the possibility of such regulation is not based on the Constitution. At the very least, one may wonder whether the scope of the cases that have been referred to is already complete enough to recognise the constitutionality of the solution, but rather it should be nuanced, but I do not see the basis for such clear statements. It was also alleged that when I presented the committee's report, I did not discuss the entire project and the conclusions of minorities in detail. Article 2 is replaced by the following: 43 Rules of Procedure, I've reached that rule. I do not think that he obliges the rapporteur to address these issues in detail. I mentioned minority applications, they're in print No. 667, so I think that this charge was a charge to some extent, not even to some extent, simply unreasonable. [[Unjustifiable.]] Two issues concerning the civil project. Mr. Marciniak's voice regarding the fact that the voice of society has been ignored. I don't think it's fair again because I don't know if it's the first time, but it's more like the way this project was dealt with in the Seym at the moment. That's 100,000. citizens can bring the project, is a constitutionally guaranteed right, but there is no right to say that this project will be adopted. However, he, I believe, passed the first reading, you presented him in detail, presented a number of amendments that you thought were coming from this project, or at least referred to various kinds of solutions that were adopted in this project. In no way have you, gentlemen, had a limited opportunity to express your opinion. This project was not adopted as a basis for further work on the Constitutional Court Act, but, as I said, there is no such obligation. On the other hand, we have tried, I in the subcommittee, Mr Piotrowicz at the stage of work in the committee, so that you have the full opportunity to express the reasons which have been expressed in the draft. The information you mentioned here in the Chamber is also incorrect, namely that no elements of the civil project have been included in our project. I'll name two. There's a lot more, but I'll name two. Namely, in the civic project, you considered that every judge in the general assembly of the Constitutional Tribunal should have one vote in the election of the President and Vice-President. This is the same solution with what we have now adopted in this project that we are looking at. The second solution is that in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) b - you pointed out this country and later also included it in the explanatory memorandum - it is advisable that certain laws should be examined by the Constitutional Tribunal in full because of their systemic or social weight. A similar obligation or possibility also creates this project. I have given these two examples to show that it is unreasonable to say that no proposals have been implemented by us. President Rzepliński said what I absolutely agree with, that the constitution binds everyone, also Parliament, and that not every law is a law. However, it must be added, Mr President, that the constitution binds everyone, including the Constitutional Tribunal. If it is true to say that not every law is a law, then I think it is also true to say that not every judgment must be a judgment. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But do you really want to lecture the professor?]] [[What do you mean by that?]] From this, ma'am, Mrs Marshal, that the Constitutional Tribunal is a judicial authority. Parliament is the body of the legislative authority. In both cases, we are dealing with constitutional authorities which must act in accordance with the Constitution. [[Exactly!]] But both the Sejm and the Constitutional Tribunal are, as a rule, subject to the same constitutional provisions and are subject to the same rules. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: And the ordinary law can be paralyzed...]] [[There's nothing from what you've said - butter butter.]] That's your grade. If you don't mind, I will continue to refer to Mr Rzepliński's statement. President Rzepliński said that the 2015 Act on the Constitutional Court has already been largely assessed as regards its compatibility with the Constitution, but, after all, the criteria for assessing the laws are not merely legal criteria. This constitution, because of the circumstances of its adoption and because of the act of choice of judges, which followed the entry into force of the Constitution, raises considerable social controversy. That is why I believe, too, that the majority of the subcommittees and committees, that it is better to move away from this law and to rely on the provisions of the 1997 Act, which is, in many respects, imperfect, but does not raise this kind of social controversy. Another thing is that, of course, there is no constitutional controversy either. I have to say, I have my doubts about one fact. Namely, during the committee's work, we received comments on the main legal problems arising from the draft Constitutional Court Act. [[Exactly.]] The author of these comments is three employees of the Court's office, the Group of Lawsuits and Studies. The President has made a significant reference to this document. [[Yes, sir.]] In a few months' time, a year from now, it is possible that the Constitutional Tribunal will be dealing with this law in the future. However, Mr President, wouldn't it be better because of the authority of the tribunal and because we all want to have confidence in the tribunal - and I say this not only for political reasons, but also because this is my deep conviction - to maintain more restraint? [[Yes, sir.]] Since some of these comments were made by other entities anyway, does it make sense for you to be involved at this stage in the case... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: This is the European standard.]] ...when soon you may have to speak on this subject in a binding manner. Such a situation must lead to a weakening of confidence in the Constitutional Tribunal, because if it were to be so that the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is a repetition of what they have prepared in a few days, it is difficult to expect that this would not harm the authority of the institution itself. [[Yes, sir.]] I think it would mean more in this case. It is your last sentence in many cases, but why express it earlier, in such controversial forms. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Because this is the European standard. The Venice Commission is writing about it.]] I would also like to refer to a few more detailed opinions of you. You were talking about disciplinary action and asking a question. whether the problem concerning the President's participation at this last stage and the President's agreement on the President's participation in disciplinary proceedings. And you were talking about the threat that the judge might become a judge of the President, because he would always be dependent on the decision that there might be such a fear that he would behave like this when disciplinary proceedings were brought, his fate would be in the hands of the President, so that the President would show mercy and not lead to this conviction, but please note that the same question can be asked whether the same dilemma could affect another situation: that the judge should not be a judge of the President of the Tribunal and that the judge would not be a judge of the majority of the tribunal. [[Exactly.]] Life experience shows, but also knowledge of the constitution, that the influence of the President on a particular judge of the tribunal is very small, because the tribunal has no instruments to influence his life situation. On the other hand, the influence of the President of the Tribunal or the majority of the Tribunal is much greater. The fear of some kind of conformism is much greater in such an environment than in relations between two completely independent bodies. I'm going to add one more point that goes beyond what you're talking about. Namely, see that, for 27 years after 1989, there was probably one disciplinary action at the Constitutional Court, and I hope that these proceedings will be rare, while the amount of emotions that this issue raises is disproportionate to the real meaning of this institution. If there were a little more trust between the parties, perhaps this issue would not raise much doubt, and perhaps no doubt, because the intention of the legislator, the intention of the projectors at this point is to protect the independence of a particular judge, and not any other purpose. And even if it were to happen that such a provision would be declared unconstitutional, this problem will not disappear, namely that it may happen that the judge of the tribunal will be under pressure from most of his fellow Members. So the creation of some mechanism guaranteeing him this independence, including with regard to the members of the tribunal, is an important goal in itself. You said, referring to the Venice Commission on the investigation of the order of impact of cases, that the Venice Commission said that cases cannot be dealt with in a strictly defined order, but these are the exceptions I have already mentioned, which are intended to ensure that cases are not dealt with in a strictly defined order. It is possible to discuss whether another mechanism should not give the tribunal, create some other safety valve, but I do not think that the recommendations of the Venice Commission prevent the introduction of a mechanism for investigating cases in order, in principle, with appropriate exceptions. You also said that, under the current provision, the Constitutional Tribunal would not have the power to examine whether the authority was competent to issue the contested normative act, because it is literally the wording which is in this law that speaks about the examination of content and mode. But I think you can understand this provision so that it also includes the possibility of examining competences. So, in short, even without correcting this provision, the tribunal will be able to carry out research to the extent that it has been for many years so far. It seems to me, too, that this is the way in which the provision for pronouncing judgments can be understood. [[The recipe is to be clear, not interpretive.]] I also have doubts about the part in which you questioned whether the 14-day vacathio legis is sometimes sufficient for the tribunal to understand the case and the other requirements which are related to it are the result of this principle. In my view, the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken so many times in recent times about the Constitutional Tribunal Act, that if such a requirement of a longer vacathio legis in the Constitutional Tribunal Act were to result from the Constitution, the principle of a democratic rule of law and the principles of decent legislation assigned to it, it should be in your case law. Because, of course, you can imagine that you will consider the 14-day vacathio legis to be insufficient, and then monthly, and then annually, in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, but the question is whether it serves the authority of the tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal consists of highly qualified lawyers who are familiar with the constitutional system for which it seems to me to be not a significant problem. If citizens often need to get acquainted with very complex files, and they do not have such legal knowledge, are the courts unable to know the content of the law and adapt their actions to it within 14 days? The issue which is most often highlighted in the discussions on the Constitutional Tribunal in recent months is the question of the successive laws adopted by Parliament, first in June 2015, and later in the laws adopted by the current Parliament. Let me express my personal opinion that these disputes might not have been the case if the Constitutional Tribunal had been able to retain more restraint as regards the interpretation of the Constitution's provisions if they had not read from the Constitution the content which the Constitutional Tribunal did not wish to include in it if they had avoided public appearances and political issues if they had not preceded the actions of the Constitutional Tribunal by expressing their views on the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of individual solutions. I sincerely hope that at least some of the doubts that have been raised in this discussion, when emotions fall down, will be considered exaggerated or no longer exist. It's probably also that there are things in which we'll stick to our own opinions. The work in committee continues, and work in the Senate will be on-going later, and I hope that this project, which will finally be adopted by Parliament and which will come into force, will significantly lead to this main objective, which I mentioned earlier, will restore the normal functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal and end this period of legal uncertainty that has been in place for several months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u185	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u186	1. Why do you want to force the president of the Constitutional Tribunal to act contrary to the final judgment of the Tribunal and allow him to rule illegally chosen persons? 2. Why do you want to violate the Constitutional principle of three divisions of power and enter into the Unconstitutional Rights Act for the President of the Republic of Poland by influencing the way the TK processes? 3. Why do you want to violate the Constitutional principle of three divisions of power and write the non-constitutional powers of the President of the Republic of Poland by agreeing to exercise disciplinary responsibility of Judge TK?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u187	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration (prints No. 571 and 650). I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I present to the High Sejm a draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration, printing of the Polish Parliament VIII term No. 571. The amended bill amends the Act of 14 June 1991 on the National School of Public Administration in the following scope: The amended Act introduces training for employees of public administration to the statutory tasks of the National School of Public Administration. Training for public administration may instruct the school to manage the budgetary part. The training commissioned by the authorising officer of the budgetary part shall be for the staff of the office serving the authorising officer or the staff of the units under the responsibility of the authorising officer, as well as for the staff of the units supervised by the authorising officer. The implementation of central training can be commissioned by schools also Head of Civil Service, Public Service. The training school may be commissioned after an agreement has been concluded between the school head and the head of the civil service. The agreement concluded should specify the scope, conditions and modalities for the implementation of the training. The draft law also sets out the sources of compensation for the costs of the training course. For the implementation of the training provided for in the draft law, the school may receive a special grant from the resources referred to in Article. 111 The Civil Service Act, which provides that the cost of training in the civil service is to be covered by the resources allocated to the budgets of the various offices for the financing of universal training, training under the individual civil service development programme and specialist training, and may be financed from the budget reserve for the training of the corps of civil servants for the financing of central training. Training contracted to schools may also be financed by means of funds from the budgetary section at the disposal of the relevant budgetary manager. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at its 43rd plenary meeting on 22 June 2016 accepted the draft without amendments submitted by the Government and directed it to read it in plenary. In the justification for the amendment, it is important to stress the appropriateness and validity of the amendment to the Act on the National School of Public Administration due to the implementation of training for public administration, their high level and their adaptation to the needs of public administration. The National School of Public Administration has good conditions for training, with highly qualified lecturers, modern training methods and flexible programmes adapted to the current needs of public administration. The project will allow better and faster adaptation of training to the needs of the public administration, guaranteeing that managers of administrative training have a significant impact on the programme and the nature of the training, ensuring coordination and significant impact on the scope and level of training by the Head of Civil Service. On behalf of the committee, I recommend the High House to adopt a proposed law. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u189	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club on the bill amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. This amendment concerns the regulation of public administration training to meet the objectives set out in the Civil Service Act. Training both central, universal, specialised and individual vocational programme training should always maintain high standards. The revised Act on the National School of Public Administration allows managers to organise training courses, using the training services of the National School of Public Administration which are best prepared to carry out these tasks due to experience, their high level of content and organisation. The amendment of the law that we are proceeding will allow the Head of Civil Service to coordinate administrative training, thus achieving a high level of training, as well as very significant benefits in the functioning of the public administration. This will also improve the quality of governance. It is worth making reasonable use of the funding allocated to training and improving the service of citizens. Law and Justice supports the amendment of this law without amendments, will vote in favour of it, all the more so as the amended law will quickly allow for a fully professional and coordinated training programme to be implemented with the relevant and up-to-date needs of the public administration, drawing on the rich experience of the National School of Public Administration. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We do not always realise that the quality of government and its institutions depends to a great extent on the quality of public administration, on its substantive qualifications required in every position, and on the proper service, the attitude of the official towards citizens and their affairs, and that it is the official who should solve important matters of the State in a professional, impartial, reliable and apolitical manner. Such civil servants have been training the National School of Public Administration for 25 years. Therefore, entrusting the statutory act with the tasks of training and improving administration, the task of shaping and perpetuating ethos to serve the State and its citizens, respect for the State for all reasons deserves the support of the High House. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. This is brought to our attention by the very rich offer of training and programming presented by the National School of Public Administration, as well as the fact that it has many experienced lecturers, very good material and organizational conditions for the implementation of training. Therefore, it is highly appropriate to entrust tasks concerning education, training and improvement of the public administration of the National School of Public Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u191	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present an opinion on print No 571. The National School of Public Administration Act defines the role of the school in the training process of public administration in the assessment of applicants for amendments, but does not provide the necessary legal instruments. Currently, training is entrusted by individual authorities to independent training providers, which does not provide synergies in the assessment of applicants, makes it difficult to maintain high standards and over-costs individual trainings - so much of the justification. Are you sure? Isn't that kind of psychic? All over the world, it is the concentration and monopoly that leads to higher prices and lower quality of services provided, in this case training. Ladies and gentlemen! The law is one for all, although sometimes, while in this Chamber, we have doubts about it. In accordance with the amendments to the Civil Service Regulations, posts shall be filled by appointment, not competitions. There is therefore a need for training because people who include these positions often do not have such qualifications. The use of rapid training remains as a substitute for prosthesis. This isn't the way. None of us question the experience of the national administration school in providing training for public administration - this quality is today very well verified by the market. You would like a quick path - entrusting on the basis of a grant agreement. This change can paradoxically cause the National School of Public Administration to shift its interest to training rather than to maintain primary education, because it is education that is the primary task of this school. In this way, I am convinced that unwittingly, you will lower the rank and position of the National School of Public Administration, to the great detriment of both its graduates and future students. The consequences of unthinkable decisions will continue to be felt for years. Ladies and gentlemen! When I looked at the website of the national administration school, I came across information about one of the trainings and I would like to mention it to you here. In June this year, general directors of ministries and central and voivodship offices took part in workshops entitled: The analytical thinking and intuition in decision-making - the organizer of course was the national administration school - within the framework of the cycle of management and leadership. My intuition tells me, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the direction. Competition and competitive market presence is the best way to maintain quality. Unfortunately, the downgrading of this quality, which can lead to a move in this direction, will affect citizens who will be served by the civilian service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u193	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. As indicated in the justification for the proposed amendments, this project was created by analysing the role of the National School of Public Administration in the process of training and preparation for the public service of civil servants and senior officials of the administration of the Republic of Poland, as well as the functioning of the existing training system in the civil service. The verification of the existing arrangements indicated the need to make some changes to the existing law on the introduction of an instrument giving the Head of Civil Service as well as to the budgetary components the possibility of entrusting the National School of Public Administration with training through a grant agreement. This means introducing a further entity that will be able to carry out such training and, at the same time, should allow applicants to speed up the process of carrying out these trainings, shortening the whole procedure. As indicated, the provisions of the Act currently in force define the role of the school in the process of training public administration, without at the same time providing it with all the necessary legal instruments to fulfil this function. At present, similar trainings are, in most or in full, entrusted by individual offices to independent training providers, which is of course a type of market operation, but may also cause problems with maintaining equal training standards or limit certain flows of information about the possibilities of action to improve training on similar topics for different authorities. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the implementation of specific trainings which have been contracted by different authorities makes it difficult to disseminate coherent and uniform solutions in different areas independently, which is detrimental to the results of these trainings. It should also be noted that training only on the basis of the current rules often leads to actual holding back of real training activities until the training actors are identified. These are the issues of invitations to tender and other such things, which actually cause time constraints and hinder the provision of these trainings. In view of the problems described, the aim of the amendment is to introduce into the Act on the National School of Public Administration a legal instrument enabling the Head of Civil Service and the directors of parts of the budget to provide training by the National School of Public Administration. The proposed change is also justified by the long-standing experience of this unit in providing training for and high quality of public administration. In our view, the introduction of the National School of Public Administration into this pool of training providers is an element that is entirely right, because this energy and this resource of knowledge are also used by the teachers or staff of this school, for example, for what it is used for, among other things. they are intended to provide training or to improve the competence and quality of civil servants. The bill submitted assumes that the task of the National School of Public Administration is also to provide training for employees of public administration. It therefore creates the instruments already mentioned to enable the budgetary component to provide and implement training, and the Head of Civil Service also allows the organisation and commissioning of such training to a central degree. In addition, the project establishes mechanisms for financing the training entrusted to the National School of Public Administration in the form of a targeted grant or from the resources derived from the budgetary part. Like I said, it's gonna make the procedure a little bit shorter. We are not particularly concerned that this free market element will disappear. Rather, we bet that we include another valuable subject in the course of training. The Kukiz Club15 therefore supports the proposed amendments and the entire draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u195	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the bill amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. I am pleased to talk about this project, especially since I am one of the first graduates of the national administration school, I am a graduate of the second year. Let me remind you that the school was founded in 1990, i.e. at the beginning of Polish transformations. The intention was to set up a new School of Knights, which was to educate staff for the new Polish administration, and I think that the school really played this role over the years. The establishment of the school was connected with the introduction of an administration system in Poland, which was based on French solutions, the famous École nationale d'administration, which is the forge of the staff. not only for the administration, but also for the French industry, the French elite. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I regretted at the end of the year, as we adopted a change to the Civil Service Act, that it meant in fact the end of this system. I'm afraid I haven't made a mistake. In the parliamentary interpellation I asked about the effects of amendments to the Civil Service Act and these effects are shocking to me. Of the 1580 members of the civil service corps, those who held higher positions in the civil service, 212 members of the civil service corps, or around 13%, were lost as a result of the entry into force of the Civil Service Act. the total number of employees in this area. A further 293 people were deprived of their posts, transferred to other posts, most often lower posts requiring lower qualifications. If we add up these two numbers, it turns out that 32% of all seniors in the civil service lost their positions, i.e. from day to day we changed approx. 1/3 of Polish administration. Ladies and gentlemen, this must have caused some turbulence. I'd love to hear the Minister's opinion, but when I talk to my colleagues who work in offices, they tell me that turbulence has taken place. It is inevitable if a third of the management staff in the administration loses their positions. New people come with very different preparations, different competences. Even the state admitted that these people needed training. These are new people who often do not have enough experience to hold these positions. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this novel bring? This novel offers the opportunity to develop the school's activities in the field of continuing training of officials. It's the right direction, it's the right use of the school's potential. I'm just a little afraid, like my predecessors, that a school deprived of these market mechanisms may not be aggressive enough... not motivated enough to actually conduct these trainings at the highest level. Although I remember our training from the first years of the national school: it was a revolutionary programme for those times, and we were all delighted with the programme, the novelty, the innovation of these teaching techniques that we later implemented in public administration. I hope that today's leadership, especially as the current head of KSAP comes from those early years, will meet these requirements. There have been such concerns that this law may lead to a reduction in the field of activity of small and medium-sized enterprises which are conducting these trainings today, but I believe that this range of activities of the school will not be so important as to actually limit it here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] affect the level of competition. In conclusion, this solution seems appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u197	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u198	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party on the draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. In June 2016, a quarter of a century had passed, as the then Sejm had established the National School of Public Administration. During that time the school became an important forge of senior officials of the administration of the Republic of Poland. She was well placed in the process of training and preparation for the public service of civil servants. However, as a result of verification of the functionality of the existing solutions, according to the government, the Head of Civil Service decided to amend the Act on the National School of Public Administration. As a general rule, this concerns training, which is governed by the Civil Service Act of 21 November 2008. The practice of the government's assessment shows that actual training activities, especially with regard to central training, are carried out within a limited period of time. The scope of activities of the National School of Public Administration is very broad and includes among others. areas such as law, administration and finance, official and managerial skills, foreign languages and the operation of office programmes. The proposed amendment provides for the following regulations concerning the National School of Public Administration. The National School of Public Administration is to carry out training for public administration staff, the directors of the budgetary section will be able to instruct the National School of Public Administration to provide training for staff of the office serving the authorising officer or his subordinates or supervised by him. A legal basis is created to enable the Head of Civil Service to instruct the National School of Public Administration to implement central training in the civil service. The condition for the task of the National School of Public Administration of Central Training supervised by the Head of Civil Service shall be the early conclusion of an agreement between the Director of the National School of Public Administration and the Head of Civil Service in which the scope, conditions and modalities of the implementation of the training will be determined. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to establish a financing mechanism for training entrusted to the National School of Public Administration in the form of a targeted grant from the measures referred to in Article. 111 of the Civil Service Act of 21 November 2008 or of the appropriations coming from the budgetary section at the disposal of the relevant authorising officer of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, While the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs recommended the adoption of the draft Act No 571 without amendments at its meeting on 22 June 2016, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is not fully convinced of the validity of the amendment of the Act, especially in matters of budgetary transfers. In this situation, Members of the Polish People's Party will take the final decision on support of the bill during the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u199	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration. Education at the National School of Public Administration provides excellent knowledge and practical skills in modern administration, unique vocational traineeships abroad and in Poland, intensive language learning, as well as participation in numerous conferences and conversations concerning the functioning of the State. The listeners receive a scholarship and guaranteed social security. Graduates work at all levels of public administration in Poland and abroad. They are employed in central and field administration, in diplomatic offices of the Republic of Poland and in international organizations in various positions, including higher positions in civil service. The possibility of achieving a higher professional position is the result of the attitude, activity and competence of graduates. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that it was created as a result of an analysis of the role of the National School of Public Administration in the process of training and preparation for the public service of civil servants and senior officials of the administration of the Republic of Poland and the functioning of the current training system in the civil service. The amendment to the Act on the National School of Public Administration aims to introduce an instrument enabling both the Head of Civil Service and the directors of the budgetary part to entrust the National School of Public Administration with training through a grant agreement. It should be noted that, with high experience and high competence of school teachers in providing training for public administration and high quality training, the National School of Public Administration should be a natural partner of public administration. However, the transfer of funds to the school in the form of a targeted grant may to some extent violate competition rules and adversely affect the labour market in the field of training companies in the small and medium-sized enterprises, whose participation in the training pool will certainly decrease. Whether this will be a minor impact, as indicated in the justification of the project, will show practice. Training services provided by a school for ministries and central offices are of the highest quality services. Given that they serve to improve the professional level of administration, they also contribute to increasing citizens' confidence in state institutions. Currently, training services for government and central administration are provided by various training entities, which does not provide a uniform, high level of training. This also hinders the flow of information on possible actions to improve training on a similar subject or nature for different offices. This results, among other things. increasing the costs of individual training and frequent retention of training activities until training providers are selected. The bill assumes, among other things, that the task of the National School of Public Administration is to provide training for employees of public administration. An instrument will be set up to allow the budgetary component managers to instruct the school to provide training for the staff of the authority serving the authorising officer or the units subject to or supervised by the authorising officer. The Head of Civil Service will be able to instruct the National School of Public Administration to implement central training in the civil service, with an agreement setting out the scope, conditions and modalities for the implementation of the training. A mechanism will be set up to finance the training provided to the school in the form of a special grant from the funds referred to in the Civil Service Act or from the appropriations from the budgetary section at the disposal of the relevant budgetary manager. The bill assumes that the changes made will result in more flexible procedures and a mechanism enabling the National School of Public Administration to fully implement its statutory tasks in the field of training of public administration officials. The Civil Service Council, which I have the honour of being a member, has given a positive opinion on the bill. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support this bill and recommend that it be directed to further work in the parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u201	Thank you very much. Hello, gentlemen, after the marshal's shift. I would like to inform you that five people have entered the list of Members who wish to ask a question at this point. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, to ask her first question. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act assumes that the central training provided by the Head of Civil Service so far will be conducted by the National School of Public Administration. There will no longer be an obligation to issue an invitation to tender for the performance of such tenders. A specific grant will be earmarked for this. Without an invitation to tender, individual authorities will also be able to report the need for general training to schools. The Act allows for skipping the tender procedure. I would like to draw attention to the fact that where the Public Procurement Law does not apply, there is less transparency and competitiveness. I would like to ask the authors of the amendment, the rapporteur Prof. Hrynkiewicz, former director of the National School of Public Administration, whether the amendment could lead to unequal treatment of operators in the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, also the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask you about the impact of this regulation on training companies. Currently, training for public administration is carried out, among others. by professional training entities, and the choice of the company is made through public procurement. Everyone, I think, will agree with me that most training companies are very well-prepared providers of training services at a very high level. In recent years, many such companies have been established. The granting of training to the National School of Public Administration under the grant agreement will undoubtedly make the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises that operate in the training services market worse. This may affect the quality of training. I have a question. To what extent will the training pool for which they will be able to apply be reduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] small and medium-sized enterprises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Buda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u206	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes to improve the competences of the national administration school should be very positive. Today's operation of training on the basis of an omnipresent public procurement procedure, while the price criterion did not meet many expectations, for example, because the procedures were prolonged, but above all because there was no so-called. the uniformity of the transmission, which means that the different trainings have produced different results and different answers to the questions with which participants of these trainings have been asked, which led to different decisions and even later judgments of administrative courts. Here's my question. To what extent will this catalogue and these possibilities of the national administration school be able to benefit from or already benefit from local governments? Is this offer also addressed to local governments, local authorities? Does this amendment change this cooperation in any way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u207	Thank you very much. Another question from Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In your statement of reasons, you have stated what the training of public officials in European countries is like. You have given examples of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Great Britain and France, which your colleague mentioned here. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, we are tilting today, at this point, the scales in the closing direction maybe, so as not to say to the restrictors a little bit of the market. Is what we have today, the law we have, according to the Minister, the most effective way of conducting training? Are you expecting such or further changes in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u209	Thank you very much, Member. Last question, Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to raise two points. Two questions. Firstly, the issue of the budget or the scope of these trainings that we envisage under the grant agreements. According to the information I received, the school has so far provided these services to such a small extent. Last year's revenues amounted to about PLN 1.5 million, as far as I know, to around 5%. the entire budget for administrative training. How does the Minister expect this scope to be after the current novel comes into force? Will the school be able to cover most of the budget with these trainings? This, of course, has an impact on the competition that the predecessors were talking about. The second point, more worried, [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning the grant procedure. As we all know, it is both cumbersome in the award process itself or in the conclusion of the contract as well as in the clearance process. Aren't we afraid that local governments and contractors will simply depart from these procedures in order to simplify the conclusion of these agreements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u211	Thank you very much. The question asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas from the Modern Club ended the speeches of Members of the Committee. I would like to speak with the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, Mrs Beata Kempa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on the matter of a government draft law amending the Act on the National School of Public Administration that we have created. Before I mention a few more points here for the order, I would like to say that we have raised it in the discussion after one of the first meetings of the school board in the previous composition. One of the first meetings was the problem of training, the problem of the condition of the school, in particular the economic condition, which I will refer to. It was an idea actually accepted by everyone. This is an idea taken from, among others. also from the work of this council, but also from the general assessment of the condition of the school. This idea has basically achieved a very broad consensus, above all differences and divisions. However, I understand that there are many doubts, that is obvious, and from this point on I would like to dispel these doubts from your Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words before I go to statistics, to answer your specific questions and concerns. I would like to make it clear here that the modern Republic requires modern administration, requires well-trained and understanding officials' challenges, because their work depends on the quality of services provided by the State, especially for its citizens. That should be a priority. The services, ladies and gentlemen, are increasing and these services require more and more qualifications from officials. In order to meet all these challenges, the challenges of today, the administration needs to develop constantly. Building an efficient and effective training system for the administration staff of almost 40 million countries is a huge challenge. This is an organisational, educational and, above all, financial challenge, which we have studied very thoroughly. In developed European democracies, there is usually a special institution, a school that implements the government's priorities in this area. In our country such an entity is created, as mentioned here in history by the graduate, in 1990, and in 1991 by the National School of Public Administration, which is governed by the President of the Council of Ministers. National School of Public Administration, Polish school, can boast an education of 1.2 thousand. Graduates of stationary studies, who personneled up the most important institutions in Poland. About 60,000 have benefited from the lifelong learning programme. persons. Thus, the national school is a leading institution preparing highly qualified staff for Polish public administration. It employs or cooperates with the best administrative scientists in the country. It has great teaching potential and it is precisely this potential that we just want to make the most of. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions in force, and in particular the Civil Service Act of 21 November 2008, require officials to continue to improve their qualifications, and the superiors, i.e. the Directors-General and Head of Offices, must ensure that subordinate workers have access to the necessary training and other forms of professional training. Training has so far been organised on the basis of generally applicable public procurement rules, but this solution has significant disadvantages. A large number of entities providing administrative training in practice make it extremely difficult and even impossible to introduce uniform standards for programmes, methodologies and, above all, the level of teaching. Sometimes, the same thematic block, implemented by different entities and for different audiences, contained different content. Therefore, participants gained diverse knowledge and skills. It is not difficult to note that such a situation may result in a reduction in the quality of services provided by the administration and may also restrict the mobility of officials within that administration. That is why it is advisable, I repeat, because it is not sufficient and 100%, for obvious reasons, which I am about to say, to harmonise or centralise the system of organising training for officials. First of all, we want to create legal conditions for entrusting them to one specialised entity to ensure that their high level and uniform programming standard are maintained. There is no doubt that such an entity is the National School of Public Administration, due to, for example, more than twenty years of experience in conducting training in the field of law, administration, public finances, management, public policies, practical applications of information technology in official work and foreign languages. Each year, the offer of the national school includes more than 100 training courses - both in the open and closed form. These trainings are of very high quality, e.g. In 2013, over 94% of their participants reported in anonymous surveys that thanks to these trainings they significantly increased their professional qualifications. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! After a very thorough examination of the functioning of the current civil service training system, but also the implementation of the statutory tasks of the National School of Public Administration, we decided to propose such amendments to the school law, which enable both the head of civil service and the directors of the budget parts, i.e. the heads of offices, to entrust the school with training organisation through a grant agreement. The conclusion of this agreement, which was already raised in the statements of my previous speakers, will not be preceded by a lengthy tendering procedure, which will, first of all, improve, secondly, speed up the process of preparing and conducting the necessary training. The solution proposed by us is well-known and widely used in the countries of the European Union and certainly does not affect the competitiveness of the training market under any circumstances. Once again, I'm going to quote some hard data. No economic operator is favoured because the national school is not an economic operator. This is, I will remind you, an individual of the public finance sector and cannot be treated the same as commercial market players. Our proposal does not prohibit the selection of trainers for administrative staff through procedures provided for by the Public Procurement Law. I'm about to show that this market, when it comes to budget resources, is still, you can say, powerful. This solution will only provide a substantive and economic alternative to these procedures, but in terms of percentages, a small but important alternative. The decision to choose how to organise the training is left in the hands of the managers of the budgetary parts, i.e. the heads of the offices, the organisational units under which the employees are to be trained. This is, of course, dependent on the analysis of needs in this area. These changes are intended to serve several purposes. We want to create the conditions for optimal use of the teaching and organizational potential of the school and enable full implementation of statutory tasks related to the training of official staff. We also want to increase the number of training courses provided by the school and thus increase the number of participants. It is therefore possible to achieve these objectives by simplifying and shortening the procedure for entrusting training to the National School of Public Administration. As much as an explanation from the government on, you can say, the basis for, the criteria underlying the proposal for this amendment. As far as questions and doubts are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the training market, I can say that the revenues of the National School of Public Administration from training in 2015 amounted to PLN 2 million - these are the data from documents. Taking into account expenditures or resources for training members of the civil service corps, which amounted to PLN 36 million overall, in this global total of PLN 36 million - this is what the training market looked like - 2 million is a school. In our view, these are proportions that will not violate market rules in any way, but, on the other hand, this will allow better use of the substance that we have, and thus, on the other hand, to improve the quality of work, professionalism and the professional skills of officials. So the whole market share of the school is 5.5%. This is the case with the government training market, with 2657 people trained at the school in 2015. All expenditure, regardless of the contractor, for the training for the civilian corps - so to compare - in 2015 it was 36 million, in 2014 - 38 million, in 2013 - 37 million. The most was probably in 2010, it was about PLN 50 million. On the whole of the school's activities, whose needs are not questioned, on the contrary, there are voices that absolutely support the development of this school, the need for its existence, but also development, but on the whole... The school generates losses and therefore the profit from continuing training is a necessary procedure - as indicated by the management, and the school board, because it has such opportunities, has such potential, and I repeat this once again - potential that does not violate market rights in this area. The school's income from lifelong learning in 2015 was 940,000. zł. The economic situation of the school deteriorated as a result of the reduction of subsidies for it. Today, the school isn't so much looking for opportunities, it's reaching out for budget money, it's trying to earn it. I am opposed to cutting subsidies to this entity. Of course, the budgetary situation is what the priorities are, but the grant was reduced from PLN 10 million in 2009 to PLN 9 million in 2010 and to PLN 8 million in 2015. So basically, about every year, with passing, this grant was cut by a million zlotys. This is a really big obstacle to the functioning of this school. However, as I mentioned, the quality of training at the National School of Public Administration is very high - 94% positive ratings of satisfied listeners. In the European Union, grants from the budget for training officials are granted to administrative schools, e.g. in Belgium, France, so that this solution is known in Europe. The exclusion from the application of public procurement rules is indeed the result of Article. Point 4 (7) of the Public Procurement Law and the grant agreement will be concluded on the basis of Article. The 150th Public Finance Act. Following the amendment of the law, the Head of Civil Service will instruct the National School of Public Administration central training. In 2016, the amount allocated only to central training is 500 000. zł. Topics of training: creation of accessible written messages, design of services for citizens, creation of public policies, management of change, etc. Coming through, ladies and gentlemen, to your questions. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked about transparency, as well as the issues of this unequal treatment of operators. Once this amount has been shown, however, for the so-called entities. The amount market will be far greater than the amount for the school, I think we are not violating this, you can say, balance. Transparency is also preserved. After all, we know that, as budgetary units, we are also subject to a very thorough control of the Supreme Audit Chamber, and there is no doubt about these issues. So one more time. If in 2015 the whole training market was PLN 36 million, this amount could be used by all operators on the market, the school had only 5.5% participation in these trainings and even after this procedure, this interest will continue to be low in relation to the total amount. Mrs Zofia Czernow asked about the price of the impact of the regulation, the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises, to the extent that the training pool for KSAP will be reduced. I have already explained to you that this will not have a greater impact. Mr Waldemar Buda of Law and Justice asked whether local authorities would be able to benefit from this procedure. Yes, they can, by all means. The school, which exists on the market, is at the disposal of local authorities, but with the difference that local authorities for obvious reasons - this is mainly due to the Act on public finances and other laws - cannot grant subsidies because they are not responsible for budgetary parts. Mrs Nemś spoke here about tilting the scales towards the school, reducing the market. I think the data I've provided should be able to dispel these doubts by now. I think that the level of these trainings is so high, and the way they are conducted by the National School of Public Administration is really so good that the quality and above all the positive impact on the quality of functioning of the state administration with regard to citizens remains beyond any dispute. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas has already quoted this amount here. You were talking about an amount of 1.5 million. We have data showing a level of 2 million, but we still believe that the school is able to absorb this slightly larger amount. This will also allow for even wider activity within the framework of either investment or programme offer. As far as local authorities are concerned, I have already responded, they can order such training, only that they cannot grant appropriate grants. On the subject of training for Directors-General, Mrs Nemś referred to this topic in her club speech on the issue of analytical thinking during decision-making - during the speech I received information that the training was assessed very high, as excellent and above all addressed to the Directors-General, who often have to make strategic decisions, so I think this is the way. [[I was talking about intuition.]] I repeat, Commissioner, this idea may be that there is a previous crew. We respected him, so I don't think you're gonna criticize it any more. Thus, there is absolutely no doubt at any stage that the school will focus only on training rather than on education. Fixed education by law is the basis. This is the main direction and basis of the core activity of this school, the statistics in this area also speak their own, and so I think that is an argument, to put it mildly, missed. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanking for the club's speeches, mostly for supporting this initiative, a very friendly school, I hope that the club of the Polish People's Party will also agree to how schools can be helped, with the approval of the National School of Public Administration, I repeat, and using this potential, which is even more fuller without violating absolutely market rules. The training market is still very large and this law is absolutely necessary. There was another question: Are we planning further changes in this regard? I think it's for the better. As far as training is concerned, they are very much needed. The modern Member has quoted data on the level of exchange of the corps in terms of higher office positions. According to what I heard here during the discussion on the revision of the Civil Service Act, this is not some revolution, because at 1500 the exchange rate is at 32%, it is not an exchange at 100% , 70% or 60%. On the other hand, I will disagree with one thing: whether these are new officials or are officials who have been in office for years, uplifting qualifications and training are not only a statutory requirement, a statutory obligation, but at all a sine qua non of development. Without this type of procedure In fact, there can only be stagnation, marazm and what is a deadly phenomenon in every area, or routine. So I think we're going towards modern training. The needs are different, we have new ministries, new departments in the administration. Ministry of Maritime Shipping e.g. He needs specialists in narrow specializations. Here the training market will be completely different, I think, treated. So that in this respect this amendment is an amendment, which will first of all cause civil service to respond to the challenges of modernity and will be much more professional on the assumption that I want to clearly and clearly stress here, the use of our most professional institution, which is the National School of Public Administration. If the Member asks me about changes, they will move towards strengthening at every stage of this institution. That is our priority in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u213	Thank you very much. I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Józefa Hrynziewicz, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the committee, I would like to thank you all for the very careful reading of this law, for all the criticisms that have been made here. I want to assure you that, as the person who was in charge, she had the privilege of running this school in 2006-2008 - and before that I worked at this school, I taught - that we never, even if there was no grant or cooperation so close, had no problem with organizing training, because the problem was not getting people willing to participate in training, but the problem was the choice of those who wanted to study at school. The school employs truly the most outstanding specialists in all areas, has very up-to-date programmes, works very closely with both the legislative authorities and the executive authorities of the State. [[Applause]] The level of education is also very closely linked to international cooperation. I want to say that there have been such trainings, I have carried out these trainings, for example. training our administration preparing administration for the Polish Presidency of the European Union. We have benefited from cooperation with the German administration, the French administration, and also the European Commission's administration. We have benefited greatly from administrative schools or civil service departments in all European countries, as well as from assistance, for example. in preparing workers for cooperation under the Presidency - then these workers moved to the European Commission, to the European Parliament - with the help of, among others. Bundestag. I would like to say that we are not competition for market players, we have never competed with market players. I mean, if it's like... There was a request to the school to prepare auditors when the audit obligation was introduced, and we actually trained auditors. Once again, I assure you that we have never been in competition with the market, and this change will not introduce such competition. What is more, I would like to say that when there was no such statutory change, I had a very high degree of freedom as a principal along with the school board to formulate the scope of this training. Today, this scope, as I understand it, will be somewhat limited because of the need to conclude contracts and because of the civil servant's statutory right to introduce such agreements. In my case, it was just a lot of randomness, which doesn't mean it was any fun. We chose these issues, these problems, such a subject that was very important for government work or for government work. I think, Marshal, that everything I've been asked, I've explained to you, and if anyone's more interested in what's going on in the school, how it works, I'd be happy to tell you, but in the clowns. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u215	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts (prints No. 545 and 649). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u216	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, I present the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts, prints No. 545 and 649. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the second half of 2014, in the previous term, the Law on Civil Status Act was proceded in the Polish Sejm. The Act entered into force on 1 March 2015. After a year of operation of the Act, and especially since 1 September 2015, when the transitional period ended, during which the work of civil status offices was supported by applications supporting the system of state registers, it turned out that a quick amendment of the Act was needed. It turned out, High Izbo, that just from September last year both local governments and civil status offices, as well as citizens, including the Ombudsman, pointed to the inconveniences associated with the functioning of the law. The main point was that the waiting time for documents issued by civil status offices was considerably longer, especially in large cities. There have been cases of waiting up to six weeks for a copy of the death certificate. The system of state registers, including the Source application, therefore required improvements, because, as I said earlier, especially in large cities due to remoteness, i.e. the possibility of applying anywhere in the country for a copy of civil status, the period of waiting for documents has increased considerably. In response to these expectations and problems, the government prepared an appropriate bill, and the Board of Administration and Home Affairs on 22 June 2016 at first reading responded positively, and this, High Izbo, unanimously, to the draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. Now, in brief, I will present to the High House the most important new detailed solutions. Thus, first of all, provision will be made for the possibility for civil status officials to be authorised by the head of that office to transfer civil status records to the civil status register. I would like to add that there are over 360 000 such operations per month on the national scale. in all offices, it's a huge number. Until now, these activities could only be performed by the steering wheel or their deputies. Now these activities will also be able to be performed by authorised employees. This will speed up the transfer process. Secondly, it will be possible to continue to operate applications supporting the system, including the possibility of issuing copies from these applications. Thirdly, the possibility of administrative annulment of civil status acts by extending the powers of the voivode and the heads of the civil status office in this respect is introduced by appropriate provisions. Fourthly, at the request of the Polish Episcopate Conference, procedures related to the so-called will be improved. Concordat vows. Fifthly, a 5-year period will be introduced to supplement the civil status register with data from those acts which were created during the transitional period from March to September last year. This will make it possible to issue copies of civil status records according to the new model using data collected in support applications during this period. In addition to the above, the draft law clarifies the provisions concerning judicial experts and interpreters, as well as the number of copies of ex officio copies. The provisions concerning the submission of applications to the consul by persons residing outside the country are also clarified. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All these changes will definitely speed up the work of civil status offices throughout Poland, and in particular, as I said, in large cities. The project was welcomed in the consultation. The bill is supported and expected by all the environments I mentioned earlier. The Committee on Internal Affairs and Administration requests the adoption by the High Chamber of a draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts annexed in print No 649. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u217	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Piotr Pole to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has been an honor for me to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the Law on civil status files, which I had previously discussed as rapporteur. This government project, the project that recently entered the Sejm, awaits different environments, waits for the community of local government, awaits citizens. As I said earlier, the 2014 law, which has largely changed the existing functioning of civil status offices, in terms of registers, in terms of the speed of issuing copies of civil status records, left much to be desired. There were critical voices that reached the government, to parliamentarians from these institutions. The Government of Law and Justice listens to the voices of the public as to the functioning of the provisions of Polish law in this dimension. An appropriate bill has been drawn up to meet these expectations. In particular, it is important to reduce the waiting time for copies of civil status records. There are proposed individual entries, these changes are several. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed changes in its entirety. These changes are made in order to improve the flow of documents, so that copies of civil status files can be made more quickly to those who apply for such copies. The parliamentary club, as I said, will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u219	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u220	Thank you, Marshal. High Seym! Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Civic Platform club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. As the rapporteur has already put it, the basic objective of the law is to improve the work of civil status offices and improve the quality of service for citizens. In connection with the functioning of the system of state registers, civil status offices have requested a correction, which aims to achieve the objective indicated at the outset. The proposed amendments include the granting to employees of civil status offices the powers to transfer to the civil status register the acts drawn up in the civil status books. The ability of employees to transfer to the register is one of the most desirable changes and most frequently requested. This will allow for a significant improvement of the work and thus speed up the handling of patents. Another important change is the introduction of an administrative attempt to annul civil status records and additional notes wrongly drawn up. As the applicant shows in the submitted project, in many cities several dozen acts are expected for annulment, most are in Wrocław, where more than 110 acts are indicated. It therefore seems appropriate to make it available as soon as possible. The next important amendment is to allow the issuing of copies of civil status certificates drawn up in civil status books for a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force of the proposed act using data collected in applications supporting registration, kept in offices prior to the implementation of the central register. This amendment aims to avoid possible upsizing of tasks in offices and to minimise difficulties in the work of offices, with a five-year period for supplementing the civil status register. In order not to extend any longer, since the entire law has been very carefully referred to, I would add that the project does not contain technical regulations, the project is also not subject to the need to agree with European Union law. The Civic Platform supports the solutions presented in view of this project, recognising the validity of its implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u221	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of Club Kukiz'15, Mrs Barbara Chrobak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The civil status office's environment, especially in large agglomerations, raises the need to amend the provisions of the Law on Civil Status Acts, which could improve the procession and thus reduce the waiting time of citizens for documents, which currently lasts up to a few weeks. The proposed amendments verify the previously adopted legal solutions to the practical problems encountered in the course of their implementation. In addition, the introduction of new solutions as well as the clarification of existing regulations seems to make up for the bureaucratic arrears resulting from the introduction of a system of state registers, part of which is a central register of civil status, as of 1 March 2015. It is also worth noting that only a few per cent of all the acts drawn up between 1946 and 2013 have been transferred to the register so far, and that all acts are expected to take up to 30 years. The improvement of the civil status office's work certainly serves to add an article. 124a, which provides for the granting of powers to employees of civil status offices, by means of a written mandate of the manager, to transfer civil status records to the register. Up to now, such powers shall be conferred only on the heads of office. Similarly, the solution to the Article should be assessed in a positive way. 127b of the draft law providing for the possibility to issue for a period of 5 years from the entry into force of the new regulations copies of civil status certificates according to the new model on the basis of data contained in applications supporting the registration of civil status, kept in offices before the implementation of the civil status register without the need to simultaneously transfer these acts to the central register. The regulation of Article must also be assessed as desirable. 39a and Art. 39b of the project in question, which is to extend the powers of administrative annulment of civil status acts and additional notes, so as to correct errors due to technical reasons or to the operation of the system. This solution allows for the immediate elimination of civil status records and references wrongly drawn up from the legal market. Clarification of the content of the Article should also be considered appropriate. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Law on Civil Status Records excluding from its use a judicial expert and a sworn translator. To date, the requirement to receive from these entities a statement of the performance of the task entrusted to them conscientiously and impartially, with respect to the protected secret, cannot be justified, since high ethical standards are a condition for the performance of these functions. It also deserves approval to meet the needs of the practice of introducing the solution set out in Article. 104a of the project, granting Polish citizens abroad the possibility to apply to the competent consul for transcription not only of the marriage certificate but also of birth and death. In conclusion, it should be stressed that reliable and efficient knowledge of the events covered by civil status records is essential for the needs of both public administrations and citizens. Moreover, it is necessary to overcome the difficulties associated with the implementation of the Law of 28 November 2014. The Law on Civil Status Acts. In this context, the proposed changes of Kukiz'15 consider it right and desirable, as they will benefit from the circulation of information and will also allow for a more efficient correction of errors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u223	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the Modern Club, Mr Mirosław Pampuch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u224	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I was honored to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the government's draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. As part of the public administration reform, the System of State Registers was introduced and a central IT application Source was implemented at civil status offices on 31 March 2015. This was intended to improve the work of civil status offices and facilitate the service of citizens by introducing inter alia. so-called. location, i.e. possibility to apply for copies of civil status certificates at the office regardless of place of residence. However, the IT application The source has not functioned properly since the beginning of its operation, in conjunction with additional administrative responsibilities, linked to localisation and excessive formalism - the need for every civil status worker's confirmation by the head of the office or its deputy - resulted in a partial paralysis and a significant extension of the deadline for dealing with citizens' affairs, particularly in large voivodeship cities. It should therefore be noted that the proposed statutory amendments meet the expectations of civil status offices. The fundamental change in the possibility for the head of the civil status office of an office to transfer to the civil status register the acts drawn up in the civil status books will certainly speed up the process of migration of acts into the central system and, above all, will allow for more efficient handling of citizens' affairs. There is no doubt that amendments to the new provision allowing civil status registers to be supplied with civil status files drawn up in support applications from March to August to be introduced by 2015, however, due to problems with the application, the Source has not been introduced. It also deserves support to amend the provisions allowing for a period of 5 years from the date of entry into force of the proposed law to make copies of civil status records based on data contained in applications supporting the registration of civil status prior to the implementation of the Central System. This should help to remove the backlog of citizens' cases in the largest cities in the country, but it will certainly not solve the issue of correct rules for the functioning of the system of state registers. This is needed for this moment a prosthetic which, I hope, will not turn into a permanent solution. The process related to the migration of data from supporting applications and the migration of civil status records from the civil status books to the central register is extremely complex. If it is properly implemented by the Ministry of Digitalization during this five-year period referred to in the Act, it should be considered as a success, which I first wish the Poles and Poles, because it will certainly improve the handling of many matters in civil status offices. Changes to the bill are also introducing solutions to correct misregistration of civil status records and additional notes, which were created for technical reasons or as a result of incorrect application of the functionality of the central application by users. The above-mentioned amendments, as well as a number of provisions allowing for the elimination of differences in interpretation concerning already existing regulations, or which complement the legal gaps, allow this draft law to be considered necessary and worthy of support. Finally, I would like to express my hope that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, and in particular the Department of Civil Affairs, will also listen to the proposals for technical changes proposed by the Association of Civil Officers, which, without legal interference, can certainly solve a number of specific problems affecting civil status officials, and the consequence may be a significant improvement in the process of issuing civil status documents. The Modern Posel Club will support the proposed amendments to the Law on Civil Status Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u225	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will perform on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u226	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! Acts of civil status constituting an exclusive proof of the events found therein play an important role in the legal trade. Reliable and efficient knowledge of births, marriages or death of a person, as well as other circumstances related to these events, is essential for public administrations. Given the role of this extremely important personal register, I can say that the idea of changes to existing regulations that lead to improvements in the work of civil status offices and the quality of service to citizens deserves approval. First experience after the amendment of the Law on Civil Status Acts Act of 28 November 2014 amending the Law on Civil Status Acts, where a number of significant changes have been made, justify legislative action to remove the backlog and eliminate defective civil status records from the market. The proposed statutory amendments aim, which is very important, at countering the effects of misregistration of acts, as well as additional references. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Unless every citizen has to deal with any legal regulation in force on the territory of the Republic of Poland throughout his or her life, it cannot happen, however, that a person or his/her immediate family does not come into contact with records made in the civil status file. Procededed matter has a fundamental meaning for every citizen, and has specific follow-up effects for each of us. The Commission for Administration and Home Affairs at its meeting on 22 June 2016 carried out a thorough analysis of the Government's submission in print No 545. The changes proposed by the government are quite extensive, but it is difficult to deny them the right. Due to the limited time in the debate I would like to mention only a few of them, which in the sense of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club are of great importance. An important issue is the fact that no write-offs are made from cancelled civil status records. An important role shall be assigned to a prosecutor whose participation in proceedings for the annulment of a civil status act or acts will be very important, especially as the focus has now been placed on the involvement of prosecutors to a wider extent in proceedings other than stricte criminal proceedings. The legislator has identified situations when and to which entities and to which events a summary copy of the civil status act is issued of its own motion. The scope of the authorisation of the head of the civil status office, specifying the activities, has been defined. Situations resulting from errors or from a typographical mistake or erroneously transferred to the register of civil status of the act declaring the same event have been described. The drafting of the article should be considered as a rational solution. 3 in its entirety, referring to proceedings in cases of erroneously drawn up acts during the period from 1 March 2015 to the date of entry into force of the Act. Indeed, in view of the seriousness of the situation, this time must be given for the proper drawing up of documents. High Seym! The draft law, or, in fact, the report of the committee in the assessment of my club, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, raises no objections, so we will vote in favour of the report no. 649. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u227	Thank you, sir. And I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. On 1 March 2015, the Law of 28 November 2014 on Civil Status Acts entered into force. Pursuant to this law, the System of State Registers, i.e. the new IT system to link key to the functioning of the State Registers, has started. The initial period of operation of the System of State Registers revealed the shortcomings of the Act of November 2014, which the current amendment is intended to bring to an end. One of the major changes introduced by this law is undoubtedly the granting of powers to employees of the civil status office to transfer to the civil status register acts drawn up in the civil status books. To date, the need for the head of office or his deputy to authenticate each time the acts are transferred extends the period of transfer to the system of state registers, the time of waiting for the citizens for the requested copy of the act and the purposeless burden on the managers and their alternates. Delegating this obligation to the employees appointed by the head of staff - because of his knowledge of the competences and skills of his subordinates - can only have a positive impact on the quality and speed of office work. The improvement of the work of the Offices is also of the nature of the other amendments introduced by the procedated Act. The five-year period in which civil status certificates may be issued, in which no amendments need to be made without prior transfer to the Central Register, is certainly one of them. This will undoubtedly contribute to the elimination of the current arrears at civil status offices, especially in large urban agglomerations. I also consider it a step in the right direction to extend the powers of administrative annulment of civil status acts and additional references. Both the extension of the powers of voivodships in the event of the annulment of acts relating to the same event and the powers of the heads of civil status offices in the event of the annulment of acts misassembled or misregistered, I consider it reasonable. Both will have a simple impact on speeding up the withdrawal of these acts from legal trading and on the smooth functioning of civil status offices. The designer's regulations take into account the demands, among others. civil status offices and represent the expected reasonable and significant changes, including technical changes, which contribute to improving and improving the quality of the functioning of these offices and the service of their citizens. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u229	Thank you very much. Three persons entered on the list of Members of the Question Task Force. Would any of you like to join the list? I'm closing the list. Please ask Mr Jan Kilian, the Law and Justice Club, as the first question. The time for questioning is 1 minute, Mr and the rest of you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For a long time civil status officials have been faced with serious problems with the introduction of legal acts. The bill of conduct solves a lot of problems. The civil status offices have called for a number of changes which are reflected in the proposed project. My question concerns Art. 4 point 2 of the Act on Civil Status Act, the date of entry into force of the Act, which is 6 months. In my opinion, but also in my opinion, many USC employees are far too long a deadline. The maximum shortening of the deadline will eliminate irregularities in the drawing up of civil status records resulting from malfunctioning of the system Source, as well as technical errors in the migration of civil status records. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Currently misinformed acts invalidate the voivode, and after the amendment of the law they will be done by the civil office managers. But why do we have to wait so long to work? There are a lot of such misdeeds and they are in the legal loop. Since the power to approve acts is already 1 August, why wait with the powers of managers to annul those faulty ones? Minister, is it possible to shorten this period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u231	Thank you very much. Please, another question, Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u232	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government side as well as my speech. I was concerned that this 5-year period would not only be a prosthetic period, because within 5 years of the date of entry into force of the law, we can issue copies of civil status documents using data collected in supporting applications, and thus the idea of the central application was ruined by the Source that it would be supplemented by the use of data, these new implementing acts. My question: Is there any timetable for the implementation or work on programs related to the possibility of sucking from these applications supporting the Central Register Source? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u233	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 47 of the amended Act. 1 is to sound in a changed way. However, it may be inconclusive, i.e., here I quote: a summary copy of the act of civil status is issued ex officio in one copy after drawing up the marriage certificate to those who have entered into a marriage. This raises doubts as to whether, in the event of marriage, a copy of the act is issued ex officio to one person or whether the spouses receive one copy for themselves. Can this doubt be clarified by the relevant provision in the amended law, or is there no need to do so? In my opinion, I think you'd have to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u235	Thank you so much for that last question. In this way, the list of Members of the Question Task was exhausted. I ask you to respond, please speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr. Tomasz Zdzikot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present to the High House a draft law amending the Law on Civil Status Acts. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Members for the substantive discussion, both at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, with unanimous support for the proposed solutions and today. Thank you very much, because indeed the changes we are proposing are a response to the voices of the local community, to the voices of officials, to the environment of civil servants and local authorities, especially of local authorities in large cities. In order not to be literal, maybe I'll give my voice to the environment. Allow me to quote a position such as the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Province Convention of Mayors. It is also part of the answer to the question whether we listen to the voice of the local government community in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and whether we will listen. Not only will we be, but that's what we're doing, which results in the bill being presented. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 November, the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Province Convention of Mayors in his position, he wrote: the waiting time for documents issued by civil status offices has increased considerably, even a month is waiting for the migration of acts by the civil status office in Warsaw. Another problem is the lack of the possibility of smooth migration of acts from local applications to the central register. For many years, civil status offices have introduced thousands of acts into the computer system, and as far as the new system is concerned, they are slowly feeding an empty base. An additional problem is the code confirmation by the head of the civil status office of the books in the BUSC application. In practice, each act transferred to the system is re-entered by the USC manager and only after several times the code has been confirmed by it goes into the system. All of this, the answers to these questions, is also in our amendment. On 4 December 2015, the Ombudsman wrote to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration: in one of the complaints addressed to the Ombudsman, the citizen informed that after reporting the death of his mother to one of the Warsaw civil status offices, he learned that the waiting time for a copy of the death certificate was 4 and 6 weeks. We listen to such voices and not only those, because these are, of course, random examples of writings that influenced the MSWiA, and positions occupied by individual self-government bodies, by their associations can be quoted very much, and the response to these voices is precisely this amendment. Very detailed and very competently proposed changes were presented by both the rapporteur and the Members' club speeches, so I will no longer present them all in such detail. Let me just point out a few points. The first issue will also be partly the answer to Mr Pampuch's question. The issue of data migration to the civil status register. Indeed, it is true that the remoteness, which must be assessed positively, of many services, including the introduction of the possibility of obtaining a write-off from the civil status register regardless of the place where it was drawn up, the possibility of obtaining this write-off at each civil status office is positive, but it clearly has caused the work of the civil status offices in large urban centres, in those places where there is a focus, the life of a large proportion of citizens is concentrated. Only the civil status office in Warsaw has a monthly impact of 18,5 thousand. applications for a copy of the civil status act, of which 86% relate to copies of the acts drawn up in the books of that office. In each of the following large cities, there is also a multi-thousand scale of influencing applications. Now in a situation where, first of all, the head of the civil status office or his deputy is legally obliged, only those persons, as I have just quoted, to confirm each activity by code several times, given the novelty of this system, its functionality, which makes the decline in efficiency noticeable, and also considering that it has not been done what you have asked, what you have rightly pointed out... There's no migration, right? So just as I quoted the position of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship Convention, an empty base is being filled. According to our data, which we presented in the explanatory memorandum to the bill, for the moment the level of base filling does not exceed 2% , and filling this base in the mode adopted last year means a 30-year waiting period. At the same time, despite the lack of migration, it was decided that since 1 September it was not possible to write copies of support applications, i.e. from all the systems that they supported, especially in large cities, officials in the issuing of copies. There are already data collected there, there are a lot of them, and it can improve work. We want to make this possible, but we want to make it possible for a certain time, and we want to make it possible only in certain cases. First, not always and not in every case, but only when the relevant application is concerned and when the write-off will not be required no change or additional mention of a change of name. Yes, indeed, we want this to be a transitional solution, migration is absolutely necessary, with migration both from applications supporting the work of individual offices that functioned before the entry into force of the Centralised System of State Registers and from the books. Of course, the biggest challenge here will be to transfer data from the books. Probably IT solutions for migration of individual records in databases collected in these applications will be much easier to apply. Changes are being processed and such a process is being prepared in the Ministry of Digitalization, because also according to the revised Law on Government Administrations last year, the registry administrator is the Minister responsible for IT, the Minister of Digitalization, with whom we work closely in preparation for this process. That is, as regards migration, as regards the powers of managers and as regards whether this process will certainly be temporary. Yeah, it'll be temporary. With regard to the question of the date of entry into force, yes, of course, sir, it is, of course, that all the amendments to this law are very urgent, important and expected. Civil servants expect these changes, but they are also expected by citizens who, as I have just read, can wait up to 6 weeks for a copy from the register. However, this is not a 6-month deadline, we have a 14-day deadline, and some of the changes that require technical modifications in the register are scheduled to enter into force from 1 October, and this is already a shorter deadline, because it was originally six months. Now we have a deadline of 1 October, and this is a deadline which is indicated by the Central Information Technology Centre, a unit subordinate to the Minister for Digitalization, as this is the minimum time necessary for technical changes to function in the register. As far as the other changes are concerned - yes, we do want to make it possible, in fact, to facilitate the annulment of all those acts which have been introduced with error, have been introduced twice - here the voivode - or have been introduced due to technical error, the error of the system. There is indeed a great deal of these acts, as the honourable Members have pointed out. Importantly, in case of cancellation of those that were mistakenly introduced, due to an error in the application, for example, it will be a material and technical operation carried out by the head of the civil status office. This will significantly speed up and facilitate the whole procedure. With regard to the question of how to interpret the provision on the number of copies, all these proposals and changes were consulted both during inter-ministerial consultations with the Government Legislative Centre and now with the Sejm legislators and did not raise any doubts. I don't think they should wake them up in the course of their application either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u237	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries (Prints Nos 557 and 643). I ask Mr Zaremba to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 21 June, a joint meeting was held between the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, on which a draft of the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries was presented. At the meeting of the committee, Minister of Maritime Affairs Paweł Brzezicki presented the principles of a law aimed at rebuilding the shipbuilding industry in Poland as a manufacturer of ready-made, designed and built new sea-going transport units - built also on cooperation with other sectors of the economy, i.e. complementary industries. Now about the main mechanisms to create in the desired shape the shipbuilding industry, replay it on this infra- and suprastruktura, which has been preserved - I am referring here to centres such as Szczecin and Gdynia, partly also Gdańsk, of course, although the situation of the entity under the name Gdańsk Shipyard is slightly different in terms of legal status. This law primarily carries financial mechanisms, High Izbo. The three main financial mechanisms discussed at the committee's meeting are zero VAT rates, the possibility for ship builders to choose or support the construction of 1-percent CIT ships, as well as the creation of special industrial zones in the shipbuilding sector. The discussion included several threads, among others. a number of questions were raised about the proposed threshold of EUR 5 million in terms of the value of the works, which is included in the bill. The Ministry's response was as follows: this threshold is intended to rebuild this industry as an industry which produces new maritime transport units, does not apply to this provision of repair yards, nor is this law intended for them. The repair yard sector is not covered by this regulation by the legislator. Of course, he also benefits from support for reconstruction, because his condition, especially in the case of state repair yards, also leaves much to be desired, but these are completely different activities which were not the subject of this law. The meeting of the joint committees ended with the adoption of a position on the positive opinion of the above-mentioned law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u239	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, and in this way I open the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u240	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the Law on the reconstruction of shipbuilding and complementary industries, a law long awaited by the industry, as demonstrated by extensive consultations conducted both by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, and by the committee which I have the honour and honour of chairing. The consultation was very broad. Who was watching... at least we, the members of the committee, were delighted by the number of people interested and willing to participate in the consultation. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry, we hosted a very broad board at committee meetings, we also consulted with the environment, which we are supposed to create the conditions for ordering in the industry, including business representatives. It is also a question of extending the range of orders and supporting the branches that other countries use, which can be read about in the explanatory memorandum of the law, because it is a mystery that European countries support their shipbuilding industry. The law is only part of the robots, because later this opportunity must be used by designers, engineers, shipowners, the shipyards themselves, which will be able to benefit from the exemption from VAT, the possibility to choose between CIT and the flat-rate 1-percent tax on the value of the sold production and the possibility to include the yard in special economic zones. Shipyards played a very important role, and it was an unrecognizable role during the fight for independent and sovereign Poland. Gdynia, Gdansk and Szczecin shipyards have always been in the vanguard of this fight, not only with the communist authorities. On the other hand, what our fathers and grandparents managed to build, I mean the shipbuilding industry, and it became a card of Poland, unfortunately the government of PO-PSL managed to destroy one decision. What the communists could not do, and Rakowski tried in the case of Gdańsk Shipyard, you, ladies and gentlemen, managed to make one move. What was built in the sweat, you laid down in the grave. We on the Coast felt the number of unemployed and tragedies of many people after the government's decisions. In order to raise the shipbuilding industry, you need a great deal of effort. When others were subsidising, they helped their shipyards in the European Union, the government of Donald Tusk destroyed shipbuilding. I'm not surprised you had such good press in the West, because if I were a Western politician, I'd write about you and get good boys. An example needs to be taken from other European Union countries, and not only that in the shipbuilding industry give employment and support through acceptable, valid and acceptable financial mechanisms in the European Union, including. zero VAT, and they build up the strength of their national economy, not be Europe's pariahs. The greatest dream for some was to work on the dishwasher. We don't want it, we want people in the industry to be able to do it here. In view of the above, the Law and Justice Club will support and vote in favour of the project. I hope this will be a successful attempt to put shipbuilding and complementary industries back on their feet. Of course, if there are any amendments, I, as president, will want to convene a committee meeting as soon as possible so that a plan for the reconstruction of shipbuilding and complementary industries can be implemented in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u241	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, Mr Tadeusz Azievicz will speak first and then Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Finance Committee and the Maritime Affairs Committee on the Government's draft Act on Activation of Shipbuilding and Complementary Industries. High Seym! We have had a turbulent meeting of the Joint Committees, during which the ruling majority has significantly reduced the opportunity for Members to speak and ask questions. The rapporteur Mr Zaremba did not mention this. It is strange, because the emotions that came out when considering this project are completely incompatible with its modest content. Although the project contains solutions that can improve the business situation in the industry, it is hard to imagine that its adoption will create a new quality in the sector and generate thousands of jobs promised. The representative of the Legislative Office was very right - and the rapporteur also did not mention it - who expressed the view that this was not a draft act on the activation of the shipbuilding industry, but a flat-rate tax on the value of sold production. The Sejm expert called for an article. 18 principles of legislative technique according to which the subject-matter of the law is sufficiently informed about its content. This hurt the authors of the project, who had previously told voters about the collapse of the shipbuilding industry - we were just dealing with the continuation of this narrative - then they announced its reconstruction, and now they are talking about activation. They do so unscrupulously when the shipbuilding industry in Poland is second in Europe and fifth in the world. Polish shipyards are competitive on the global market, build and repair complex ships, competing in this quality, not price. So we are dealing with pure politics. During my first reading, I talked about an old marine saying about an object that sticks to a ship and says that we're going together. I think that when this project comes into force, the government's narrative will change a lot. It will suddenly turn out that the shipbuilding industry has been activated and its reconstruction is progressing dynamically. From this perspective, I perfectly understand the emotions that triggered the proposal to change the title of the bill. High Seym! The Civic Platform Club will make some amendments to this project. One of them, in line with the intention of the Legislative Office, will concern the title of the project, the others aim to promote tax preferences among a wide range of entrepreneurs operating in the industry. In a moment, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot will tell you about this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u243	So here you go, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u244	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If we would like to include in this law provisions that will activate the shipbuilding industry, it is worth to include such provisions as will provide all the operators in this sector with a level playing field for development. Today, our impression is that the provisions which are included in the bill favour only the largest entities, but in many places, for example in Western Pomerania, there are entities that do not produce ships under the so-called. the key, from the beginning to the end, but the essential parts thereof, and the ships are equipped elsewhere. So it is worth that such entities also have this incentive to develop and can also support this. In addition, it would be worthwhile that the Act should not only take into account those entities that remodel ships and carry out works of more than EUR 5 million, because such works are very few. In fact, as the Minister said, I believe that only one such undertaking was carried out last year. Therefore, it is worth that repair companies, which form an essential part of the shipbuilding industry, can benefit from this, for example because in 2014 the renovations were carried out for more than EUR 410 million. We would therefore like to propose to you the adoption of three amendments, which we believe will substantially change and improve the draft law. The first concerns a change in the definition of the ship's construction, where we will indicate that it does not only concern the complete and capable of shipping the ship, but also the construction of the parts to be built into the ship or serve its operation. This is the first amendment. Amendment 2 concerns the definition of ship repair in remodeling so that we are clear and that such works can also be carried out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and abolishing the limit of EUR 5 million. I 3. the amendment concerns the amendment to the title of the Act in accordance with the proposals which have been presented by the Legal Office's staff. I am handing over these three amendments to your hands, and I am counting on them to be accepted. Thank you. [[You can always count.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u245	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15: first Mr Sylwester Khrushcz and, after his speech, Mr Andrzej Kobylarz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u246	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz 15 club in relation to the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries. During the previous debate, the Minister said that he was surprised that the opposition was so against this law. And I say we're in favour of this bill. She's needed, she's good. But why can't we point out where she's even better? I have such a problem, we have a problem as Kukiz'15, that when we say we're behind the bill, the colleagues from the Platform say, "Oh, they're already at the Law and Justice when we say we're against it, the Law and Justice colleagues say, "Oh, they're already with the Platform... [[That's not what we're saying.]] ...and we really, really in the middle, want to point out, show good solutions, just and exclusively. That's why we're telling you what's good about this bill. And the good news is, we're even talking about it. It is not as my previous speaker Tadeusz Aziewicz said, that the shipbuilding industry is doing very well, because it is enough to drive through Szczecin: he is doing well where our small entrepreneurs have small contracts from tenders that they hold, but they do not make money. After all, we in Szczecin remember when on the ramps twenty pairs of ships were built in one year. This is the real big business where we should go. We praise the government for the insurance guarantees that will move the entire technological chain: 30% the elements are to be from the Polish industry. So what I said a month ago: we are glad that Poznań, Czestochowa, Elbląg, Toruń will live again. These are very good things, but we must remember that we are writing this bill for the future. The shipbuilding industry in the future, with the successive governments, will be private in 10 and our shipbuilding companies will have to adapt to the market at a given time when we will be. So one day it will be worthwhile only to make repairs, sometimes only hulls, and sometimes entire ships. This market will show what direction will be very good. We commend you for making the first ferries in Szczecin, we praise and welcome you for thinking about the Navy, which will order in our shipyards, but - once again I stress - we need to think about what will happen in the future. That's why we think renovations should be included in the bill. This is where my colleague Krzysztof Zaręba said it would be included in future laws. We're thinking about it. That's too bad. Maybe we should think about it now, put it in now. We believe that this amount - 5 million - much lower - should be used for the reconstruction. It is my colleague who will talk about this amount, which we think should be much lower. We say a complete ship... It would be nice for us to make ships like this, but, again, the market will decide that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u247	So please, Mr Andrzej Kobylarz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For the second time, I have the pleasure of discussing the principles of this law, which is really necessary to support the once thriving Polish shipbuilding industry. Support for such an important industry, which has given employment to many thousands of Poles in many countries, is essential if we want to live in a prosperous and decent country for our citizens. After many years, the collapse of the shipbuilding industry should be appreciated by any indication of aid to this industry. Undoubtedly, the bill presented represents a step in the right direction, and I believe that it is only the beginning of legislation aimed at the revival of the Polish shipbuilding industry. Many assumptions in the presented project are worth supporting and the Kukiz Poselski Club 15 recommends them, but there are issues that need to be leaned down and looked for other solutions. On behalf of the Kukiz Club 15, I'm about to hand over two amendments to this bill to your marshal. The first one concerns Article. 2 (2) Point 1 (3) (a) A bill. We recommend changing the saved amount from EUR 5 million to EUR 500,000 to give the river yards, for which the value of EUR 5 million is too high, a chance to support and reactivate. Such high financial assumptions virtually eliminate the possibility of producing inland vessels, as the cost of their conversion is much lower than that of marine units. Amendment 2 concerns the question of non-compliance with the PKWiU classification as the reference in the Act is misleading. The amendment will eliminate the error by which the costs incurred by the industry would increase unduly by 23%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u249	Thank you very much. And Mr Piotr Misilo will perform on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u250	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that you are economic dilemmas in PiS, we have known for a long time - a very long time - and it is neither revealing nor surprising. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: And this is a cultural determinant in Modern?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, the fact that the Legal Office of the Sejm did not leave a dry thread on this bill... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: That is not true!]] ...confirming that it is not a shipbuilding law in any way, but a simple strict law fiscally, and it doesn't change anything in terms of functioning... [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal, I could ask, because it's awfully disturbing when Members have nothing to say and are disturbing. [[Exactly.]] Your famous... [[And they're just rude.]] Mr President, talk to yourself in the Confession Room. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Don't let the Member insult us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u251	Mr Pierce, wait a minute. Please, you had your time, no one bothered you. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: But the Member insults us.]] I'm asking you to calm down, because I'm gonna have to pay your attention, and I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u252	I'm asking for a long time, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u253	Mr President, please continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u254	Your famous shipbuilding bill turned out to be the biggest legislative bang of the current term of the Sejm. I guess only England's representative in a kicking ball can feel a similar taste of shame and disaster after failure with Iceland. [[What does that have to do with anything?]] You guys are crazy weak. This bill is a strictly apparent act, an action aimed at making a passcode impression... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Who wrote this to you?]] [[A donkey can become an envoy.]] Your marshal, two people, and so much confusion. If you'd like to have a chat, I'd like to invite you to join me in the clouary. This law is a strictly apparent act, aimed at giving the impression of a slogan initiative aimed at a closer undefined reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry in Poland, while in practice this law will not change anything in the shipbuilding industry, and for the shipbuilding industry in the West Pomerania region will be the beginning of problems in the sector of small private enterprises. PiS promised to be close to the people in the campaign, the Prime Minister announced that she would listen to every citizen, but the government did not only listen to the citizens, it did not even consult with experts or representatives of interested environments of its bill projects. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: And you weren't at the committee meeting?]] If he had listened, he would not have been so far removed from reality and would not have missed the fact that in the West Pomeranian shipyards there has been no conversion of more than EUR 5 million in recent years, but only such projects are to be dealt with by the Act in question. So what is this activation? What shipbuilding industry and how does it activate? You're in the clouds of economic absurdity. Do not suggest, ladies and gentlemen, the title of the law, and in particular the noisy-sounding word activisation, because the content is not in any way correlated with the title. The alleged activation concerns only a few, and this is not significant, financial instruments, i.e. flat-rate tax and exemption of the yard from VAT financing, the implementation of which additionally requires the acceptance of the European Commission and, even more importantly, the willingness of entrepreneurs to take risks so that they can benefit from these instruments. This law will help to disable the entire shipbuilding sector, increase the risk and financial costs of the activities of subcontractors and suppliers. Companies cooperating with shipyards are often small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have to finance all VAT with the proposed preferential clearance mechanism. Is the government going to help them and give them e.g. preferential loans? And where the security of bank guarantees proposed by the industry, where the stability of leases in Szczecin Industrial Park, where the termination periods are now shorter than the execution periods? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Platforms ask.]] According to the Modern Act, this law lacks, among others. regulation of important issues such as the creation of a guarantee system for the shipbuilding industry, instruments to strengthen the competitiveness of the shipbuilding industry by reducing the administrative costs generated by maritime offices, ZUS and tax offices in relation to shipbuilding activities, the change of the status of the Szczecin Industrial Park from the fee collector function to the actual function of the incubator of shipbuilding and the stabilisation of the termination periods of the current two to three months for a period of 12 or 24 months depending on the type of activity. Honourable Members! Minister! I repeat once again: this law will not contribute to any improvement in the operation of the shipbuilding industry in Poland. [[Okay, okay.]] The modern cannot support such economic dylanism. However, we would like to help you minimize the losses resulting from this legal act... [[Thank you very much. I don't care.]] ...and on behalf of the Poselski Club I'm putting on your hands a modern Marshal of three amendments that can make this bill any better. Mr Kaczyński... There's no envoy. I understand that you too would very much like to jump the yard fence. [[What a...]] ...but for God's sake, you're 67 years old and you can walk quietly without jumping. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For a well-earned pension. What do you want, sir, the shipbuilding industry and all the Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Go deal with the Russians together.]] [[It's so modern and so...]] [[But this primitive is. What's there to expect?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u255	Thank you very much. And please speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u256	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today's bill is intended to ensure the further development of Polish production yards, in which technologically complex ships and floating facilities, which are to be - and probably will be - competitive on the global market, are still to be built. Poland, according to the assumptions - and we would all like this area of the economy to be a significant area in economic development and to be able to make a positive and positive contribution to image creation - will have to meet the competition of countries such as South Korea, Japan and China. Increasing the advantages of competitive manufacturing yards and ship repair yards and ship and floating facilities will require many innovative applications, as well as rational investment and R &amp; D spending. The aim of the Act is also to enable the development of research and development centres related to shipbuilding and to ensure an increase in the demand for skilled workers. In its assumptions, the law's objectives, directions and priorities are based on economic potential, production potential, but also, to a large extent, on human potential, because tradition, education, preparation for taking up or renewing certain directions and professions can give us such certainty and we can look to the future with optimism in this respect. The Act also identifies the directions and activities in the area of mechanisms and financing that will enable financial relations to be arranged and the economic side to be secured. It is also envisaged to be able to enter and use the so-called. technological credit and technological bonus, of course, after the European Commission's decision on the compatibility of State aid with the internal market. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The emotions that accompanied the process of this law, both in the committee and today, are certainly a picture of the ambiguous perception of past years as well as the current events. Although the Polish People's Party has co-ruled, today certain words have been spoken here, I think we will not criticize and strongly declare that we are against this document. I believe that every government has the right to see reality and to put forward perspectives, and we will want to cooperate constructively, that is to continue to work on the formulation of the final form of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u257	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan to speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Act on the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementive Industries contains solutions concerning the tax sphere, special economic zones and access to European Union funds that can be applied under national law and international conditions, including in particular the Union. This project aims to rebuild the ship's industry. Now that we're talking about rebuilding, that means that we've had this industry before and at a pretty good level. It is therefore worth recalling what has happened that we must rebuild it today. When China and South Korea - today's power in the shipbuilding industry - introduced systems to reduce significant costs for the shipbuilding industry, e.g. supporting the production of ship steel by subsidising energy costs for steel producers, i.e. the creation of cascade support systems, introduced concessions in customs import tariffs for imported ship equipment or so-called "marine equipment" imported from abroad. Export discounts for exported ships, and above all they developed ship education, starting from higher, technical, to professional, in Poland under the PO-PSL coalition, were exactly the opposite. It is hard to believe that the rulers of that time did not see it, and only to please EU politicians destroyed the entire branch of functioning Polish industry. I am an inhabitant of Gdynia and - as I mentioned in my previous speech on this issue - I can perfectly see the negative effects of the decommissioning of the maritime economy. The liquidation of the Polish shipbuilding sector was forced by European Union Commissioners and passively accepted by the Polish government of the PO-PSL coalition. It is worth reminding and remembering today that decisions of EU officials are not always aimed at the good of Poland. This law sets the right direction for the Polish shipbuilding industry and the Polish maritime economy. Therefore, near Free and Solidarni will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u259	Thank you very much, Member. Seven people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question. Would any of you like to sign up? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u260	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question concerning one of the provisions contained in the draft law, namely the possibility of setting up special economic zones on the territory of entities operating in ships. According to a representative of the Ministry of Economy... a representative of the Ministry of Development... During the meeting that took place at the previous meeting of the Sejm, I heard that it was planned to create special economic zones in Szczecin and Świnoujście. Therefore, I would like to ask you to specify precisely where these zones are to be set up. I would also ask you to clarify some of the issues that I believe are mutually exclusive in this proposal, because the law provides for the possibility of using a one-percent tax on the value sold, which would replace [[♪ The bell ♪]] CIT tax, and the greatest benefit of operating in a special economic zone, is the possibility of exempting some part of CIT tax. So in what context will this be implemented? Because if an entity that actually operates a ship would like to benefit from this preferred 1-percent value tax, then why does it need to operate in a special economic zone, since it is the greatest advantage that such an entity may be exempted from this CIT? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u261	Thank you very much, sir. And another question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Wilk, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government proposal for a law on the activation of shipbuilding and complementary industries is very important for the development of our shipbuilding industry. A number of favourable tax solutions are intended to be introduced, as well as facilitating the inclusion of a special economic zone of land in which shipbuilding and complementary production are carried out. I have a question for the rapporteur, Mr Zaremby: Will it be possible to cover the special economic zone of the Elbląg port areas, where production activities are carried out by companies after the former Zamech, where gear and screw are produced, and the former Elbląg river yard? Taking these areas into the economic zone would allow us to develop our city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u263	Thank you very much. And another question will be asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz'15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u264	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question similar to that of my previous speakers. I would like to ask you to include the yard in special economic zones. Do we have a specific list of zones yet? That is also the question I asked at the previous sitting when we discussed this law. I got the answer that the applications would be run by entrepreneurs. Or self-government. Therefore, I have a question, I do not know whether to the Minister or to the rapporteur... [[Minister.]] ...what will happen if all the river yards apply for such zones. Do we, as a government, as a state, have any idea where to direct these zones where to locate them? Will everyone get that kind of permission? Are we gonna locate them in specific locations? There are local specifics, e.g. We know that in Szczecin shipyards are from Polic to the centre of Szczecin. What's the idea for such zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u265	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question, actually. I would ask the applicant to consider whether the application of the 0% VAT rate can be extended also for the supply of certain vessels to shipowners operating in inland waters. The planned development of inland transport routes will also require support for the construction of units capable of handling freight and passenger transport, hence my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u267	Thank you so much for asking. And another question will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't judge the individual solutions of the bill, my predecessors did, but I want to get back to the title. The law states that the subject-matter of the law is to be adequately informed of its content. Moreover, common sense dictates that the title of a legal act should correspond to that content. The submitted project is perhaps the first case in this term of office, in which the title of the Act does not correspond completely to the content, rather conceals the content. The content is tax solutions. The first two articles are general issues, the next 13 articles concern the construction of the tax, and later mainly changes in taxes. So the title points to something other than content. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the author of the project disagrees with me, then I ask: Would it be appropriate to give the Act on income tax on individuals the title of the Social and Economic Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u269	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you to the previous speaker, because I would like to ask you the same question. Why is such a title and why is this law even being prosecuted in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs? The title and content of the law clearly indicate that it should be proceded in the Ministry of Finance, and its area of substance is work. part-time for one inspector in some department that deals with taxes, VAT. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to ask the Members of the applicant whether they know when they will receive the answer or when the European Commission intends to send an answer on whether this law is compatible with EU law. Will it not be necessary for Polish entrepreneurs to return amounts that do not belong if the European Commission's position is negative? I think this is a very important question and I would very much ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u271	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u272	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, the Act on Activation of the Ship Industry and Complementary Industries, is expected with hope not only by Polish shipbuilders, but also by representatives of other professional groups. The heart of the ship, which is the engine, requires among others. Drive shaft. Its production requires knowledge, experience, high skills to produce this shaft of people. For many years the Polish leader in the production of crankshafts was, and is still, the Ostrwiec steelworks. She worked closely on this issue, among others. with Cegielski's bets in Poznań. I would like to ask, will the adoption of this law have a positive impact on the production situation of the Ostrowice steelworks? Whether this will allow the production of crankshafts to increase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is so important as it would mean an increase in employment, which is very important in the face of a lot of unemployment in my city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u273	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Minister Paweł Brzezicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe before I answer the questions, it's two minutes to get in. Well, most of you may not be accused, but the comments - at least those presented at the beginning, even before you asked questions - concern the repair yards, concern renovations. Of course, I would also like to welcome the skies to the repair yards, if only it were possible, but not quite so. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the repair yard and the production yard are two completely different worlds in terms of economics, financial issues, competitive issues and even geographical issues. Well, I will use this example in maritime education. Well, if a person owns a Volkswagen car, which is produced in Germany, it's rather difficult to imagine that this car would go to Germany for a review. On the other hand, the car owner of this brand bought it in Germany. About this is the difference between the repair yard and the production yard. Renovation shipyards, which in Poland are yards serving the de facto closed Baltic market, with a growing number of ships and still closed in the sense that it is a market, in addition to the Kaliningrad circuit, de facto intra-EU, and in each of the countries that have such repair yards, there is a CIT tax, PIT, VAT, is allowed and illegal public aid, there are similar solutions. Therefore, interference with renovation will immediately end with the European Commission's interference and, in fact, be regarded as unfair competition for such solutions. This law is therefore moving towards the production of new ships, i.e. European competition with the rest of the world. That's the rule of the bill. That's what it's all about. Maybe now I'll try to answer the questions one at a time. Where will the special economic zones be? Here Mr Marchewka asked the question: How does it apply to 1%, the CIT exemption? I do not know the list of places where these zones are to be established. Perhaps some places are being considered at the Ministry of Development. However, in principle, applications for a special economic zone in the area so far prohibited may also be included in the Act, i.e. in an area not belonging to the State Treasury, i.e. in private territory. Which of the entrepreneurs will ask for this? It is difficult for me to answer right now because we are really just discussing this bill. Whether they choose the formula of a one-percent tax on the value of marketed production, or whether they are satisfied with a more secure formula for the economic zone, will depend on their choice. It's an entrepreneur's choice. We're giving him these tools. I don't know what the entrepreneur will choose, whether it's it or not. Of course, as far as the special economic zone is concerned, here we avoid the practice that has been applied so far, that before the zone was created, the Treasury invested in the infrastructure, arming the area. Here we assume the area will be armed and there will be no such aid. Of course, this will affect income tax, but optional tax. Formula 1% from the value of sold production is a more risky formula for the entrepreneur, but it also gives him the opportunity to carefully observe the global market, ship prices, global yard order portfolio, etc., because it simply blocks itself for 3 years. He's blocking himself for three years. As regards Elbląg, Mr Elbląg, the bill is addressed to those economic operators who are the entities in the contract for the construction of a new ship. Therefore, if such an entity decides to build in Elbląg, it will, of course, be able to benefit from this law. As far as inland vessels are concerned, I would like to say that the VAT rate is 0% it is impossible for inland vessels to do so because such regulation is simply in conflict with the European VAT Directive. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. With regard to the title of the law, Mr President, I will allow myself to have a different view because of the fact that calling this law a tax law, please note that it would not have fulfilled or fulfilled the tax formula, because, as a rule, the tax fulfils the following roles: fiscal role, redistribution role, which here, can be said, does not exist, and the information role. Yes, these two are, but not all the features of the tax are preserved, with all due respect. [[All of them.]] This law concerns only the sphere of shipbuilding, therefore the relevant title of this law, regardless of the political issues raised by you, and believe me that I was motivated only by the interests of the shipbuilding industry, thus calling this law... I think that this title, which is, excellently, maybe not quite brilliantly, but is giving away the spirit of this law and its content. I think I am partly responding to Mr Modern here. As far as Huta Ostrowiec is concerned, I would say that the contract for the construction of a new ship is an agreement which, regardless of the financial part, contains an extremely important part of the property. In the in-kind part we have: the shipper and the yard discuss a list of suppliers and products of a specific manufacturer. Of course, if the yard decides on a drive shaft from Ostrowce, it will affect the possibility of increasing employment in Ostrowce of new workers and increasing production levels or production volumes. I think that this is the case, because this law is harmonised with the KUKE regulations, which force the producer to maintain 30% of the polonium in the supplier chain. The tradition and experience of the Polish shipyards also indicate that we will return to those suppliers who have traditionally been them. I don't know, I think I answered all the questions. If there are any more, I will of course make a formal statement. On the other hand, I ask once again, also Mr Kukiz, to understand the intentions of us who are writing this bill, that it is not a repair bill, it absolutely excludes all renovations because we will simply have to extend the scope of notification of this law to the European Commission in principle with knowledge and certainty that it will be adopted negatively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u275	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Zaremba also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This discussion, of course, was very broad and at some point it changed into a dialogue between the committee bureau and the absent Member of the Nitras Platform today, including. To force me to agree to what the Minister was just talking about. And you must know, and this was also the subject of my speech at the joint committee meeting, that around repair yards, especially repair yards in Szczecin and Świnoujście, there was a pathological arrangement, connected also with certain private entities. I understand this Member's nervousness in asking questions, but, as Minister Brzezicki said, we want to rebuild the shipbuilding industry, which will produce new ships. And here I address Mr Azievicz - there is no shipbuilding industry in Poland today, which would be able to compete with the world industry in the construction of new ships. We're rebuilding this industry. [[Then why did you put a remodel in here?]] It is during your governments, please do not interrupt, during your governments, which will soon be the subject of my next notification to the relevant authorities of the state, which was created in Szczecin, among others. the idea of cutting the ramps and overhead cranes, destroying them, just as you destroyed them. In the hull room, the welding string of the ship's section, just as you've ruined the newest zinc plant and the paint shop. [[So what kind of reconstruction is in here?]] We are talking about investments from 1998 to 2001, and this was also discussed... [[This isn't the rapporteur.]] ...you were at the committee meeting. [[Why are these reconstructions here?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I would like to explain once again that the subject matter of the Act is the reconstruction of the industry as the manufacturing of new ships. [[Remodeling.]] But when it comes to remodeling, that's why there's this threshold. [[That means renovations too.]] Moreover, industry was located in 2008 for political, non-economic reasons, because the Polish party did not appeal, did not use any appeal procedure in 2008. [[It's you.]] What's more, many government representatives... [[And in 2006?]] ...many representatives of the then government of the Civic Platform lied, among others. He lied to the senators in the Senate that the yard would be sold as a whole in a run. Men like the Minister at the Prime Minister's office at the time, Mr Grupiński, Mr Nowak, said: What will happen to the shipbuilding industry? He's gonna be wiped out. It will be destroyed and the market will absorb these workers. That was, your marshal, High Izbo, the whole discussion at the last meeting of the joint committee. And a representative of the government, also present today, Mr Paweł Brzezicki explained why such and not another construction is in the bill. Finally - Mr Misia is no longer here - I would like to say that unfortunately she is trying to make up for the lack of merriment, but we are not approaching... [[What language, sir? What language?]] Unfortunately, it was a rude speech. You weren't. I wish you'd heard that. However, we do not refer to the fact that it was the political leader of Modern Poland who misled Poles, among others. by encouraging the taking of franc credits, representing these anti-Polish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u277	Mr President, I recommend that we move on to the report on the committee's meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u278	...and anti-industrial forces in Poland. I'm almost done, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u279	I hope so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u280	We want the industry that existed in Poland until 2008 simply to be, because it constituted competition for the German industry, for the French industry. And what the Germans said, among others. Presidents of the German shipyards, that apart from the fact that the government of Tusk at that time agreed to the liquidation of the Polish industry, there was more than EUR 970 million from the federal budget, but also guarantees from the Lands in which the shipyards are located in Germany, especially in East Germany. So that it was also the decision of the Polish government to liquidate the shipbuilding sector in Poland that made it very easy for them. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u281	Thank you very much. I hope that we will no longer hear such terms in the Parliament's Chamber. That is a remark to Mr Zaremby. On the issue of correcting Mr Tadeusz Azievicz. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Zaremba, the rapporteur of this committee, once again - this has also happened in committee - reiterates, of course, that the government of Donald Tusk is guilty of the collapse of the shipyards in Gdynia and Szczecin, because he has not appealed against the relevant decision of the European Commission. Those with knowledge of the processes that occurred at the time are aware that, as a result of the state aid granted, the great public aid which those shipyards accepted, no meaningful restructuring plan could be built, and the economic situation of the yard was so terrible that they had no chance of surviving - the assumption is that - to their positive judgment of the Court in Luxembourg. Shipyards did not have liquidity, so the alternative was actually the uncontrolled bankruptcy of these shipyards. From this perspective, it must be said that the compensation law and the process that was carried out in Gdynia and Szczecin were a better solution for the yard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why I protest against repeating this lie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u283	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law (prints No. 570 and 622). I ask Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Nuclear Law is to arrange solutions for the appointment and dismissal of vice presidents of atomic agencies and the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection. It is worth mentioning that the Vice-Presidents of the State Atomic Agency, in accordance with the Atomic Law, appoint and dismiss the Minister responsible for environmental matters at the request of the President of the institution. Proposed amendment to the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of In turn, in accordance with Article. Paragraph 112. The Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection shall act as an advisory and advisory body with the President of the State Agency for Atomic Energy. So far, the Act on Nuclear Law only regulates the functioning and composition of the Council. On the other hand, there was a lack of rules governing the cessation of membership of the Council and provisions allowing the members of the Council to be dismissed or resigned, even in the case of health problems preventing the member from taking part in the work of the Council. This gap should be supplemented, hence the proposal to add paragraph to this Act. 5a indicating the grounds for cessation of membership of the Council. At the same time, it is proposed to modify the procedure for appointing the Council by taking into account the role of Minister responsible for the Council. an environment that oversees the work of the President of the State Agency for Atomistics. The applicants propose that the powers which the chairman of the atomic agency currently has should be transferred to the Minister responsible for the environment. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry for first reading on 7 June 2016. These were held at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on 21 June. On behalf of this committee, I recommend that you adopt the draft law in print No 622. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u285	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law, print no. 570. It is a parliamentary initiative aimed at amending the Act of 29 November 2000. Nuclear law consisting of ordering arrangements for the appointment and dismissal of vice-presidents of the State Agency for Atomics and the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection. Therefore, the project we are debating today contains changes to the article. 109 and Article 109. 112 Law of 29 November 2000 and Art. The 2nd draft law is a consequence of the above amendments. Article modification The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 aims to provide an environmental minister with tools to remove the Agency's vice-presidents in the event of failure to seat the Agency's president, and to amend the Article. 112 fills the gap in the rules governing the cessation of membership of the Council, including rules allowing the members of the Board to be dismissed or resigned from the Council for example. for personal reasons. This gap shall be supplemented by an amendment to the Article. 112 by adding paragraph. 5a providing for the cessation of membership of the Council. As we read in the explanatory memorandum and as I said earlier, the proposed article. 2 is the consequence of the amendment of Article. 1 point (2) (a) a draft law. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The above parliamentary initiative at first glance seems trivial, because the project itself is not very extensive. However, by reading carefully the contents contained in it, we can see that they perfectly complement the existing law to which this project relates. It is difficult to imagine that this law is still in its form before the regulation, which is why the Law and Justice Club is in favour of implementing the proposed amendments as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u287	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Hibner to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club regarding the amendment of the Atomic Law Act, print no. 570. The proposed changes could be considered correct, but... And that's why I'm here. There's a crazy difference. The amendment concerns the operation of the State Agency for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection and the Council. In accordance with Directives 2009/71/Euratom, 2011/70/Euratom and 2013/59/Euratom, Member States should ensure that the body is effectively independent of any undesirable influence on its functioning. And that's where they come in. The Minister for the Environment, not the President of the Agency, appoints and dismisses the Vice-Presidents. This is typical centralization, there's nothing to hide. Next case. The Minister for the Environment shall appoint and dismiss all members of the Nuclear Safety Board. There's no alternative here, so to speak, to a president who might want to keep a member. You will decide the minister, for example. One of his members is gonna put him at risk. From among the members of the Council, the Minister for the Environment shall indicate, ma'am, the President, the Vice-President, i.e. the Vice-President, and the Secretary. Indeed, I can honestly say that this is a strange act. Both the agency and the council are incapacitated. They have nothing to say because the Minister will point out, the Minister will say: Mr Pcimski is to be president, he is to be the head of this council and he will preside over this council and another will be the secretary. The council alone has nothing to say. The Council can't set itself up, so where's democracy here? Let's see what this democracy is all about. I understand that the fact that the Minister is verifying who these members are supposed to be does not take place in the same way as in the case of the President, who has powers and who manages this unit, so he determines who is useful to him in helping him with the work of the council, because this advice, please, is not advice to draw money. This is the advice to help, to co-create a nuclear program. The Legislator's Office paid attention to one more thing. It raised the issue of the Council's lack of continuity, as the current term expires on the date of the entry into force of the Act, and the Act itself enters into force within 14 days of the date of publication. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the typical manual control we've had in the past. This is typical centralization. Let's not pretend it's a different character, that it'll be easier here. I understand that if someone... And it had to be said that the state of the council should be replenished. However, we could only agree on this one point. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will vote against the proposed changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u289	Thank you very much. As regards the Kukiz Poselski Club15, the statement was made in writing. I therefore ask Mr Zbigniew Gryglas to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the pleasure to present the position of the club Modern in relation to the draft law amending the Act on Nuclear Law, print no. 570. High Seym! The bill is highly staffed, as my previous speakers have already confirmed. The project aims to regulate the rules for dismissing vice-presidents of the State Agency for Atomics. In this case, a request from the President of the State Agency for Atomics has so far been required. According to the draft, the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. the environment will be able to cancel the Vice-Presidents without such a request by the President of the State Agency for Atomics. This regulation seems to be extremely incidental in order to regulate a particular situation. Such regulations should be avoided by creating law in the Republic of Poland. These should be universal principles, such as those that function over the years and not those adapted to the current situation. This project seems to be as incidental as possible. And finally, the second point. Among the most serious cases that are regulated in this project is the question of increasing the number of members of the Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection Council from the present 7 to 10. In the explanatory memorandum, we do not find a word that would justify such an extension of this council. In addition, the draft extends the term of office of the Council as soon as the proposed law enters into force. High Seym! In recent months we have had this type of regulation, these kinds of billings very much, starting with the draft law on civil service, the draft law on radio and television, so-called. a small bill, up to a draft law on guarantees and guarantees given by the State Treasury. In all these projects We have found an extension of the board of directors, councils or other bodies that have managed these agendas, and the end of the term of office of the current bodies, which is an extremely human matter. Moreover, the last few days have brought another case of the appointment directly from the Parliament to the management board of a large state company of the former Member for the position of Vice President, a member of the Management Board of the commercial law company. This was the third such case when former Members of the Law and Justice held positions in commercial law companies. There is no consent to this type of depropriation of enterprises, there is no consent for Polish companies, Polish companies to be filled by former politicians, current politicians or government activists or persons associated with the governing party. This type of case has already been mentioned many times. We won't be able to do that. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I request that the draft law be rejected at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u291	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party made a statement in writing. Three people have entered the list of Members wishing to ask a question. We start with Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas. Here you go, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question about the issue I already mentioned during the club appearance. What is the justification for extending the membership of the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection? The expansion of the warehouse only generates unnecessary additional costs. The Council in its so-called 7-person composition was functioning efficiently, in a sufficient manner. There is no reason for this board to be extended. Please explain. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u293	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u294	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the point under consideration, I would like to ask you in terms of Especially that it ended now, on 1 July, the term of office, which is the balance of the existing functioning of the State Agency for Atomic Energy and the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection, especially in terms of the interest of the Polish State and its security. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u295	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mariusz Orion Jędrysek, Minister of State at the Ministry of Environment, will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government supports the changes that have been proposed. I would like to justify this and answer the questions that have been asked. This advice was set up in 2012 and its term of office expired on 1 January, so that - I do not know - there is a Member here who is responsible for me at the moment - Mr, there was no shorter term, please do not impote. Similarly, I answer you immediately, there is no extension of the number of members of the board, because it was 10 and it is 10. Of course, you just have to read the bill. Ex-president, deputy, secretary, right? Plus seven ordinary members, which means we have a total of 10, if we can, sir, count. Next thing you know, the nuclear safety board. Please note that this is the body that reviews nuclear safety issues in Poland, including devices, it is about the Maria reactor, but also about the actions of the president. How should the President be given an independent opinion if these are the persons who have been appointed by him? Mr President, think and answer me this question if you can. I believe that if the Minister of the Environment oversees the President on behalf of the Government, on behalf of the Prime Minister, he must also set up a council that directly sees what is happening in the atomic agency. There was even the opinion of one of the bodies associated with the control of the atomic agency, an independent body in which it was expressed that supervision was too small, so this supervision would at least be a little better at the moment. As far as such digressions are concerned, that the government changes, the truth, shortens terms of office and calls Members to positions, there is no such situation at all, at all, because you do not even know who will be called for this advice at the moment. We'll make sure they're not people who have a direct connection to politics. And you, in your term of office, have appointed the president of the PSL-PO to rule eight years - your former Deputy Minister. [[Applause]] Well, sir, after all, the chairman of the council was your Deputy Minister, it is clear, so I would ask... [[I'm from Modern.]] I'm sorry, Modern, indeed. I'm sorry I can't tell the difference. [[It's not a PSL. We need to get ready.]] Excuse me, can you repeat that because I didn't hear you? [[You should've gotten ready.]] Prepare or continue because I can't hear you? [[Stand by.]] I am prepared, as you can see, Member. But you couldn't ask a question. Well, that's another case. Let's just say that this opinion body has to be somewhat independent of the President, but the President is advising those who will be appointed. So that he has a right to it if he sees that someone might be incompetent, then he doesn't. Please pay attention to one more thing. In this council, which has so far been in operation and which we have not interrupted the term of office, there is no interrupted term, so that there is no policy at this time, the action was that the members of this council were, because they are no longer - at the moment their time has passed and in total there is no point in establishing a new council, because in a few days it will be possible to establish it already according to the new law - people who were controlled by the President, and so also the council, so they controlled themselves. Of course, they should have excluded themselves from certain decisions, but I don't know if it's always happened. There is always a lack of taste, right, if the persons controlled control themselves or a colleague in one opinion body. I don't think that's gonna happen. I know that under Polish conditions it is very difficult to select specialists who are employed in controlled units and at the same time will be independent. It's very difficult for them, which is why we're looking for them at universities, and we're looking at a lot of other specialists. The point is that this body is indeed a politically neutral body and, above all, a specialist body independent of the President. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u297	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the committee rapporteur still want to take the floor? There's no envoy. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u298	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Act Atomic Law is essentially based on strengthening the creation function of the Minister of the Environment, who will have the right to appoint and dismiss vice-presidents of the State Agency for Atomics and members of the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection directly. The proposed change is part of the general trend to increase the influence of ministers on the cast of leadership positions in their subordinate institutions, while in no way affects the main regulatory matter of this law, namely the peaceful use of nuclear energy to meet the socio-economic needs of the country. Not long ago, I had the opportunity to present the position of the Kukiz'15 club regarding amendments to the law governing research institutes. The question I raise at that time is also valid in the case of this amendment. Will the proposed changes really improve the operation of the State Agency for Atomic Energy, especially in the context of its tasks, as a future nuclear oversight office playing a key role in the implementation of the Polish Nuclear Energy Programme? The strategic programme of building the first Polish nuclear power plant, led by the Civic Platform for the country by the decision-making power of Donald Tusk and Ewa Kopacz, has not produced any results so far. For the amount of about PLN 300 million, the works did not go beyond the conceptual stage. In fact, the only achievement of the previous team - in addition to ensuring that Alexander Grad, who until recently was the President of the Management Board of the special purpose vehicle set up for the construction of the power plant - is to establish the basic legal framework necessary for the implementation of the investment. Unfortunately, the current government still has not made a final decision on how to implement this important project. There are no strategic actions or decisions following the publicly submitted follow-up of the project. These include, for example, the decision to start environmental and localisation research for the construction of a nuclear power plant, the announcement of a tender for the selection of power plant technology, the development of a support mechanism to ensure the economic predictability of investment, the amendment of a nuclear specialty or the preparation of a number of regulations implementing the Nuclear Law Act. The lack of a clear decision by the government to really continue or abandon the project is another wasted tens of millions of Polish taxpayers. Poland cannot afford such waste. The fundamental issue of our energy security remains in the discussion on this issue as well. In view of the above, I expect the current government to make a final decision on the future of the nuclear programme, given that nuclear energy - apart from its low carbonity, negligible operating costs and guarantees of stable energy supply regardless of weather conditions - also means a technological leap in other sectors of the economy and the development of the region in which the power plant will be set up. In the absence of clear decisions on the continuation of the project, which is the State Agency for Atomistics, and on the direction of development of this area, it is difficult to support the strengthening of the minister's competence. I will therefore recommend to the Kukiz Club15 that the Minister's powers be increased in this undefined project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u299	Position of the PSL Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the bill amending the Act on Nuclear Law. The direct objective of the amendment to the Act is to give new powers to the Minister of the Environment to appoint and dismiss vice-presidents of the State Agency for Atomics and the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection. Currently, Vice-Presidents of the State Agency for Atomistics are appointed and dismissed by the Minister of the Environment at the request of the President of the Agency from among the persons selected by the competition. After the change, the Minister will be able to dismiss the Vice-Presidents in the absence of seat of the President of the Agency. The Act also amends in the case of the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection, which acts in front of the President of the State Agency for Atomistics as an advisory and advisory body. To date, members of this board have been appointed by the president of the agency. In accordance with the proposal, the Minister for the Environment is to appoint them after consulting the President of the Agency. The applicants point out that the legal arrangements so far indicated that a person appointed to the Council for a four-year term could practically not give up sitting on the Council on his own. There was also no mechanism to establish a replacement, e.g. For the sake of death. The club agrees with the need for clarification, but we believe that the President of the Council for Nuclear Safety and Radiological Protection (BJOR) should have competence in this area. The PSL Club has a negative assessment of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u300	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products (prints Nos 432 and 652). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Health and Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products, prints 432 and 652. I would like to inform the High House that both committees have set up a subcommittee to present a report to these committees for the current procedure. There was quite a consistency between the members of the various clubs and the two committees, and the most emotional issue raised the question of how to use an additional space in catering facilities for smoking in this room, or traditional cigarettes, or electronic cigarettes and innovative cigarettes in case of a suitable extract or when it is not available - only innovative cigarettes and e-cigarettes. The amendment was adopted at both the subcommittee meeting and the committee meeting and is included in the committee's report. Another element around which was the discussion was the issue of vacathio legis, maybe not so much vacathio legis, but a transitional period concerning the adaptation of the premises in which cigarettes are sold and the elimination of information relating to it. The relevant amendment was not tabled here, although discussions were held in the subcommittee, but above all at the committee meeting. I think that's it, Marshal. And on behalf of the joint committees, I request that this report be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Law and Justice, I would like to comment on the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. There are a number of reasons why the draft law amending the Health Protection Act was adopted against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products. Amendments to the current rules are necessary. On 20 May 2016, the European Union Tobacco Products Directive entered into force, the provisions of which relate inter alia. to buy and sell e-cigarettes and nicotine fluids for re-filling them. The revised law implements the provisions of the Directive. We hope that these regulations will discourage potential smokers from reaching for an e-cigarette advertised as healthy. Potential smokers are young people whose health we have a particular responsibility to care for. Smokers and passive smokers are exposed to substances that cause the development of civilizational diseases and to bad effects that lead to premature death. 1,800 thousand. is the estimated number of e-burners in Poland. The cost of treatment related to smoking-related diseases amounts to about PLN 18 million per year, while losses in the economy due to absenteeism or reduced productivity at work are estimated at about PLN 15 billion per year. The numbers speak for themselves - smoking is nothing but loss, no profit. The Act provides for a ban on the sale of e-cigarettes to minors, a ban on smoking in public places, a ban on placing information in the store: a ban on the sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes or back-up containers to persons under the age of 18. A ban will also be imposed on producers and importers of advertising and sponsorship of sports, cultural, educational and health events. Retail trade in e-cigarettes and nicotine liquids on the Internet will also be banned. According to the draft law, the sale ban will also be covered by taste cigarettes and self-rotation tobacco, excluding those with the addition of menthol, which will apply from 2020. Furthermore, the use of substances suggesting that the tobacco product is healthy will be prohibited. The Act introduces an obligation to include graphic and text health warnings on individual packages and summary warnings. There will be a warning on the package: Smoking kills, throw now, and the information: The tobacco smoke contains more than 70 substances causing cancer. The e-cigarette packages will contain information about all the ingredients they contain, their quantities and health warnings. The Act provides for inspection of the packaging of tobacco products by means of a special unique identifier and other tamper-resistant security features. There is also a requirement to obtain a marketing authorisation for novel tobacco products. The aim of the amendment is to protect the health of Poles, protect passive smokers and correct economic losses. The law and justice recommend the above-mentioned law in a positive way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u304	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Alicia Chybicka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Position of the Civic Platform Club on the draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. The draft law implements EU directives on the prohibition of advertising in particular of e-cigarettes and the prohibition of smoking in public places. Population of developmental age more than 7 million human beings must be protected from all forms of smoking, active and passive, conventional cigarettes and e-cigarettes, as well as modern cigarettes. For the population of developmental age, all forms of contact with active and passive smoking of all kinds of tobacco products are dangerous: cigarillos, cigars, innovative tobacco products such as electronic cigarettes. The toxicity, i.e. the extent to which a substance can cause harmful effects on the body, is significantly higher for the child than for the adult. The addiction, or condition that affects the child's ability to control his behavior, is faster in the child. Children and adolescents must not be informed that vitamins and other additives, caffeine, taurine, colouring additives reduce the harmfulness of cigarettes. The advertising of tobacco products and their derivatives should not be introduced in any form, because the health of the whole society and, above all, of children is the most important. For the last 25 years, we have achieved a great deal, but we are still at the beginning of the road. It still burns as many as 8 million Poles. Because of smoking, tens of thousands of adult Poles die every year, half of them young and middle-aged. So also in the next decade the most important public health challenge in Poland will be measures to reduce the number of smokers. There are realistic grounds for halving smoking rates from around 8 million in 2015 to 4 million in 2025-2030. This will lead to halving of premature tobacco mortality for young and middle-aged adults. It will also be an important element increasing human capital and will improve the demographic structure of Poland. It should be recalled that, for the next 10 years too, ordinary cigarettes will remain the biggest challenge for public health in Poland. Ordinary cigarettes still smoke eight times more people than e-cigarettes. Ordinary cigarettes are far away, several rows of size, more dangerous to health than other nicotine dispensing devices, and this applies of course to biological effects. I'm not talking about the problem of children and the social consequences of e-cigarettes. E-cigarettes are a relatively new product on the European Union market and evidence of their potential risks and benefits is only beginning to emerge. On the other hand, it would be ridiculous to say that an e-cigarette, a nicotine dispenser, is healthy. I've never heard such a thesis. Is nicotine also toxic in small doses? Nicotine is also a highly addictive substance that meets all the requirements of the drug definition. We also know from scientific research that nicotine even at low doses is cardiotoxic. E-cigarettes are considered as a means of helping to quit smoking and so-called. a measure to reduce the health damage to smoking, i.e. Harm reduction. It should be recalled, however, that e-cigarettes are far less effective as a means of helping to quit smoking than the centrally active medicines on the market. The best example of such a drug is the widely used cytisin in Poland, using which almost half a million smokers try to break their addiction every year. Medicines such as cytidine most effectively help quit smoking, do not lead to addiction like e-cigarettes, their production is subject to all pharmaceutical safety rigors and are only available in pharmacies. However, the real problem with e-cigarettes is their use by children who, when smoking e-cigarettes, learn to inhale poisonous and addictive substances. Inhaling nicotine steam with nicotine dispensers is becoming increasingly an opportunity for children to gloat, and the consequence is the contamination of the body of young people with poison. The use of e-cigarettes becomes a school or a vestibule for children to use other addictive substances. Therefore, the availability and sale of this instrument should be regulated in Poland. In the future, new generations will also become a special problem. new nicotine products. This is the direction of the European Union's new tobacco directive, which, I understand, has been strongly supported by the Minister of Health Konstanty Radziwiłł for some time, earlier with a similar bill was presented by the former Minister of Health Bartosz Arłukowicz, and very close to its adoption was the Minister of Health Marian Zembala. We are entering a new phase of the fight against smoking, where the most important thing is to provide help to those who are determined to quit smoking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or medically speaking, treating patients with tobacco addiction. Some studies show that 80% smokers in Poland declare their willingness to quit smoking. Considering the above. arguments, Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform supports the bill, and I appeal to all my fellow Members from all options to set an example and not smoke, and to promote non-smoking. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u306	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u307	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law shows how much truth is in Polish proverbs. This time we're talking about the fact that good intentions are paved with hell. We tried to change that. I tried to make a few adjustments. If your marshal will allow me, I'll file two more on behalf of the club. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill isn't just bad. She is simply showing us why the British voted in favour of leaving the European Union. In this law, of course, imposed to a large extent on us by the European Union, we deprive Poles of the right to information on the most important issues, because in matters affecting decisions concerning our life and health. In addition, we destroy the Polish industry, the big one, but also the smallest ones, the smallest ones. And most importantly, by covering our faces with health flags, we are going in a completely different direction. I'm gonna say this out loud, and I'm gonna take responsibility for it: with this bill, some people are gonna die of cancer, just like that. This bill violates the fundamental right to information. We have negotiated a very difficult extension of the possibility of selling menthol cigarettes, only that now Poles will not know which ones they are, because there will be a ban on informing which of these cigarettes are menthols, so Poles will have to buy these cigarettes blindly. It is not enough if someone wants to buy cigarettes with as little nicotine and as little tar content as possible, he will have to shoot again because the seller and producer are forbidden to tell you how much nicotine and tar is contained in this cigarette. Innovative products that do not have a combustion process enter the market are the heating process. As a result, there are no tar substances, but these kill, not nicotine, but this type of information will be banned again, we introduce censorship. I don't know if we're still living in a free country on a free continent. The bill also introduces a ban on censorship... [[We're alive, we're alive.]] Are we okay? Great. [[And we breathe.]] Besides censorship, the Act also introduces horrible restrictions on production, import and trade in legitimate products. It comes to such absurdities that fans of Cuban cigars will be forced to travel abroad. You won't be able to buy such a battery over the Internet, for example, please, this battery will be banned. [[Higher.]] But it's... We live in some kind of absurd fumes. How do you want to control this? You want to re-introduce mail checks like you did at the martial law? Have you forgotten that we are in the European Union, that Poles buy on eBay, buy on various commercial sites, online shops around the world, bring their own batteries, bring their own cigars? How would you like to do that? It'll be another fake, dead record. This bill will certainly bring big profits to smugglers, strengthen the black market. On the east wall already today, most of the cigarettes come from smuggling. In this way, you will impede access to information, to legitimate, proven products. One more thing. This is said by both the European Union and, unfortunately, the Minister: the aim is a smoke-free continent. Okay, great, except in this bill you also take the opportunity to use alternative sources of nicotine supply. There is neither tobacco nor smoke in electronic cigarettes, so why did you include it in the same bill as ordinary cigarettes? You say electronic cigarettes may be more harmful than traditional cigarettes, but you say they haven't been tested yet. So have they been tested and harmful, haven't they been tested and you don't know? The fact is, if we check out these largest clinical trials in the world, there's no evidence that they're any more harmful than regular cigarettes, and there's no way they're anything specially harmful at all. I know, however, I see this on the example of people who have severe COPD, just like my mom, who's been living for many years, smoking, using electronic cigarettes, that if they were banned, I don't know if she'd still be alive. In any event, at every stage of the work on this law in the committees, we have heard that this is an EU directive and a discussion on the sense of legislative solutions [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's unobtrusive. And this was usually said by the same politicians who were surprised by the British decision. I'd just like to tell you that you're giving your own arguments to those who want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u308	I would like to finish this, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u309	...to propose a referendum in Poland in the near future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u310	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u311	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a position on behalf of the club Moderna on the draft law amending the Act on Health Protection against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products use with draft implementing acts, print Nos 432 and 652. As we have heard, much has already been said about this project from both this platform and in committees and meetings with representatives of the tobacco industry. Much has probably also been said about these regulations during the European work on a directive obliging Member States to introduce the proposed amendments. This is obvious because of the significant restrictions introduced for the electronic cigarettes industry free of them so far. Despite my great respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens in this case, I firmly put the health of society ahead of universal access and promotion of such drugs. This directive, and hence the draft law, is intended primarily to fight for the health of Europeans, which we still feel, regardless of the action taken by the governing party. Despite some controversial e-cigarette smokers, I believe that this law will have a very positive health effect because it will reduce the number of people reaching for these drugs. Introduction of restrictions on accessibility so-called e-cigarettes are especially necessary due to the young generation, which so far had unlimited, uncontrolled access to modern and fashionable drugs. The use of nicotine in any form is harmful, and the use of arguments about the potential less harmfulness of electronic cigarettes already in itself points to their harmfulness, and therefore the promotion of harmful substances cannot be accepted, and it is certainly not acceptable to use them in people totally free from nicotine. I stress that there are insufficient studies on the harmfulness of smoke from e-cigarettes, and the diversity of their contributions does not at the moment allow to establish with 100% certainty that smoke released when using these devices is harmless, as well as the absence of far-reaching studies of their harmfulness. It is up to us parliamentarians to take care of the health of our society. As a doctor, I am obliged to promote a healthy lifestyle not only in terms of active forms of leisure activities, but above all in terms of reducing the addiction of Poles. In recent months cases of contaminated air in Polish cities have been reported very strongly, often even calling for not to leave the house with too much harmful substances in the atmosphere. Let us take care of the environment, but let us also take care of our health. I want to convey and say that the Modern will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u313	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm standing here because I've been fighting the problem of smoking since I was a kid, the problem of smoking that affects people I care about. And I am not referring here to Members of Kukiz, 15 who sit close to us, but loved ones in my family who started smoking while still young people. How difficult it is to get away with smoking, only Mirosław Pampuch, who 14 years ago - the Modern Member, if you do not know - has said enough from day to day and has not smoked for 14 years. I would like to deepen the fact that we will only vote in favour of this bill. I would like to appeal to Minister Radziwiłł, the Minister of Health, to start a campaign because only by reaching out to young people in the right way can we stop with them starting smoking. The statistics are scary. A billion people in the world smoke cigarettes, 5 million die every year by cigarettes, 600,000. They die because they're passive consumers among smoking cigarettes. We can't let that happen. Every day we pass young people who now pride themselves on having electronic cigarettes, it is now very trendy. She even said they were showing off using the colloquial language of young people. It's trendy and it's very easy because you don't have to light it, you don't have to start a fire, we just reach for that electronic cigarette and get used to it. The nicotine inside of us causes them to free themselves so-called. Happiness hormones, and then unfortunately, as in my case, it's hard to quit and it's hard to stop. So that the only pipe worth smoking, ladies and gentlemen, is a pipe of peace. I think it's worth a smoke here, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u314	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I present the position of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club regarding the government draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of the use of tobacco and tobacco products. I would like to say that when we adopt projects in this House which mean a privilege for someone, they open up an opportunity for them, generally without a long dispute, without conflict, such projects are accepted. Only then can we argue about whether someone gets greater privileges and someone else gets smaller privileges, speaking of some inequality. Controversy creates projects that impose certain restrictions on citizens, on entrepreneurs - economic constraints, tax restrictions or restrictions on normal functioning - and the most controversial are projects that impose certain restrictions on the freedom of life of Poles. This project, even though it is a project imposing almost all restrictions, is less controversial because we are dealing with tobacco smoking, as regards the harmfulness of which there is no doubt. Also the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party in this regard has no doubt about this law. However, other provisions that are in this Act and which are intended to help us to reduce smoking are controversial, such as those ideas about limiting information. It is also worth knowing that this project in many places introduces restrictions for those who work legally, produce legally, and are those who are involved in tobacco processing and production. We must not forget that in Poland the market for those who produce tobacco products is not a small market. There is also a small market for those who import them. Let us also recall that the European Union has not included a ban on tobacco consumption or use in this directive. It introduced restrictions, which for Poland will be the most negative in terms of entrepreneurs. Many say it will touch thousands or tens of thousands of people; some say it will touch nearly 100,000. people are somehow related to the widely understood tobacco industry. This raises, provokes controversy in the feeling of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club and therefore we cannot support this project without any alternative. There is a second group of customers which is related to this market. They are farmers, and there are many in Poland who are involved in tobacco production. I say this as the one who doesn't smoke, but also as the one who is a farmer. And it will be very difficult for these farms, very often specialist, modern, who do not want to poison anyone, who just want to function normally, if these restrictions enter into force, to function normally, and they will not have the possibility of switching to another production. These are often multigenerational farms - I know such farms in Poland - farms that have invested huge money and which can remain without means of living every day. If the Ministry of Agriculture or the European Commission had prepared for these farms cover measures to help them change, change their production profile to something more customer-friendly, for consumers, this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wouldn't cause controversy. We have no opportunity to see such actions from the government in the case of this project. This is also not seen in other projects that the government has prepared and presents to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u316	Get close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because this project, although well founded and undoubtedly going in the right direction, introduces a number of restrictions that can lead many entrepreneurs and farmers to bankruptcy, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will not support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Free and Solidarnia Circle on the Government's draft law amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products, also as a addictive therapist and Chair of the Parliamentary Group on. Troubleshooting addiction issues. We have analysed the proposals for new solutions based on a summary of the characteristics of the directive with a diagnosis of current problems and challenges in the field of combating tobacco use and tobacco products in Poland. This perspective in my opinion allows us to maintain objectivity to represent the value of health rather than economic interests that are so visible in the public consultation process. The regulation of electronic cigarettes should take place considerably earlier, irrespective of international obligations. However, the assessment of the solutions proposed today is very difficult. Changes in sharpening, bans and requirements are particularly true for people who use nicotine. We see a high level of dissatisfaction among people, organisations and institutions involved in promoting e-cigarettes. The discussion around the proposed changes reminded us of the difference between the harmfulness of electronic and traditional cigarettes. However, it is the responsibility of parliamentarians to adapt the rules in a clear way. We treat electronic cigarettes as harmful to health, which, in the light of objective studies, especially due to the presence of addictive nicotine, is beyond doubt. One of the most important problems of recent years is the marketing effect in relation to so-called. e-cigarettes, creating an illusion of no harm. The clarification of terminology has made it clear that smoking of both types of cigarettes has been identified. As a result, the amendment of the Act solves key problems: banning the sale of e-cigarettes or spare containers - with nicotine-containing liquid - to persons under 18 years of age, reducing their smoking sites, banning the sale of cross-border tobacco products, introducing restrictions on advertising and promotion of these products, introducing new health warnings on packaging. These are urgent and important issues. We're doing it today. The regulations that raised our doubts are primarily about equalizing smokers of both types of cigarettes. In practice, people using electronic cigarettes, e.g. with the need to reduce health damage by avoiding inhaling thousands of harmful substances contained in a traditional cigarette, they will be exposed to passive smoking and inhalation of this smoke in common smokers of traditional and electronic cigarettes designated for smoking. I believe that, in the absence of results from objective studies, clearly determining the degree of harmfulness derived from e-cigarettes, those using this form of nicotine should use other smoking sites than traditional cigarettes. At the same time, in view of emphasising the addictive nature of nicotine, it is impossible to leave this form of smoking without restrictions on the place of smoking. The rigorous nature of the law, which absolutely emphasizes the responsibility of users of nicotine for possible or current addiction, together with the consequences of smoking difficulties, results from the treatment of nicotine as a psychoactive substance, which is justified by the classification proposed by the World Health Organisation. It is therefore worthwhile to support those who do not benefit from nicotine, while emphasising the value of health, and to enable them to live without cigarette smoke in any form. The correctness and correctness of this law will be verified by the degree of compliance and enforcement. In the area of tobacco products we see today so-called. a gray zone, of a huge scale, which primarily concerns trade in tobacco without excise duty. I hope that today the project under consideration will not deepen the problem of non-compliance with the existing law. The preparation, coordination of offices and institutions, as well as the commitment and conviction of the correctness of the changes made, can be a guarantee of its effectiveness. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, I support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u320	Thank you very much, Member. Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? Do you still want to join us? [[Yes, if I may.]] Good. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute. [[It's too short.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In many countries around the world, the tightening of smoking laws and restrictions has already become the norm. Different methods are used. In California, American cigarettes can only be bought from the age of 21 and in Australia for a few years smokers will have to pay as much as $40 Australian for the package. Many communities believe that in our country too little emphasis is placed on anti-smoking prevention among children and young people. While Europeans smoke less and less globally, smoking is becoming more and more popular in our schools since middle school. There is a need for a comprehensive, modern prevention programme and additional funding for health-promoting campaigns. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The kind that will go to children and young people. With this appeal, I address the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education. I also wanted to ask the representatives of the Home Affairs Department about the changes in the provisions on the functioning of the Customs Service: Is it planned after the implementation of the provisions of this Act to strengthen the control of the influx of illegal cigarettes from the east? I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u322	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u323	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Health Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products is a good change. Smoking among young people has long been a common problem. Even children are already trying cigarettes, and many of them become addicted over time. Nicotine addiction has very serious consequences for young people's health. Because of passive smoking, not only does he suffer, but also his surroundings. Young people smoke cigarettes for many reasons, and one of them is a negative pattern passed on by their parents. Quitting is very difficult and many people simply fail, so it is important to react quickly to the suspicion that the child started smoking. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: [[♪ The bell ♪]] How does the Minister plan to support preventive action among young smokers? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u324	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u325	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the subject of the contested report, I would like to suggest that the applicant examine the terminology used in the draft law concerning the so-called. electronic cigarettes, i.e. nicotine inhalers, and the content of the regulations associated with them. The definition of a product that can be used for the consumption of a steam containing nicotine by means of an mouthpiece is highly inaccurate and in an unlimited way extends the number of devices that qualify for that definition, with an ordinary hot water inhaler at the head. Also, the introduction of the concept of innovative tobacco products is completely open and creates a right which can be interpreted freely. Smoking is the evil, the evil that kills and which must be fought with relentlessly. I would ask the applicant to consider whether it would be appropriate to introduce rules that are unambiguous and open to any interpretation, whether by business, users or officials. Implementing implementation rules [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us not complicate what this directive itself has already made too complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law under review is very important when it comes to protecting the health of residents. Smoking is very harmful, we all know that. I would like to draw attention to the harmfulness of this addiction and its impact on reproduction, pregnancy and offspring. Exposure to tobacco smoke and nicotine - whether active or passive - has a significant impact on the reduction of pregnancy time, birth weight, or premature birth. It would seem that there is widespread awareness of the harmfulness of smoking. Sadly, many are still addicted to it. It is therefore a priority to protect pregnant women, children from the harmful effects of this addiction. This bill, among others. is intended to be a mechanism to prevent the negative effects of smoking. Scientific research has shown no significant difference between the effects of passive and active smoking - both forms are equally harmful. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the solutions introduced by the law, namely the smoke-free space, are so important because of the health of future Poles. Minister, does the Ministry of Health have data on the cost of treatment for children who have been exposed to the harmful effects of nicotine in both foetal and postpartum life?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u328	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Until now, the law has not regulated the issue of selling e-cigarettes to minors. E-cigarettes of children and young people can already buy for 50 PLN. The question of better quality is 200, 300 PLN. Money's not a problem. E-cigarettes are not only a drug, but already a hobby among young people. E-cigarette became an attribute among middle school students, reigning already in primary school, in high school became the norm. It looks like a pen, it's easy to hide, it doesn't smell suspicious. Knowledge of its harm is very little. E-cigarettes are only seemingly safer than traditional ones. At the moment, it is difficult to tell what long-term health effects e-cigarettes can have. Each of us is at risk of developing addiction to cigarettes, but in the case of children and young people it is a particularly high risk. I have a question, Minister: Does the Ministry of Health have research on the scale of smoking e-cigarettes in schools? And will the proposed bill effectively make it harder for minors to access e-cigarettes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u330	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the Ministry of Health proved to be a very strong advocate of the proposed changes in a clear and uncompromising way, indicating the great harm to smoking and even the prospect of releasing our country from this addiction in the future. I personally admired Minister Pinkas, who, in an identical and unambiguous way, presented the position of the Ministry in both the Health Committee, where of course he could count on applause, as well as on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which, by necessity, had to listen also to the interests of farmers, tobacco growers. After all, in February this year the Committee on Agriculture adopted a dissertation in which it indicated among others. on the negative impact of the law on the situation of Polish growers. My question, as a general supporter of this law and a private opponent of smoking, but at the same time a member of both committees, is: What are the impact assessments for tobacco growers? After all, there are dozens of tobacco crops. [[♪ The bell ♪]] thousands of people, especially in south-eastern Poland, who have often done so for many years, and this is often the main source of livelihood for them. Are you thinking of some form of support for these farms? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u332	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Alexander Anczynski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this government project. Today, here and now we're talking about not smoking. This is a good time for us to take on the subject of advertising, promotion, promotion of non-smoking, so that at school, or even in kindergarten, we can even say to children: "Speak, Mom, don't smoke." I call on the media, on the Internet, radio, television, during the hours of the highest audience to talk about non-smoking, promote non-smoking. Help me - I address the media - to promote this topic. Advertising is paid enough. Minister, is it possible that in a short time you would undertake a widely understood anti-smoking campaign? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u334	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. I don't smoke, I don't smoke, and I'm not gonna start. [[Applause]] I am also a hot opponent of smoking and, therefore, a proponent of fighting this addiction. On the other hand, I still lack reliable information about the extent to which e-cigarettes harm health. That is why I wanted to ask: Is the Ministry in possession of such studies, have such studies been carried out, and if so, when can we expect their results? Will the results of these studies be communicated to the public? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the discussion on the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products, it was repeatedly stressed how harmful the effects of smoking on the human body are. Nicotine addiction is a disease and there is no doubt about it. Its result is the annual death of about 5 million people in the world. Most of these people died between the ages of 35 and 69. A year of age and they were so-called. premature deaths. In Poland, the big problem is that more than half of the girls and boys tried smoking between the ages of 13 and 15, and every fifth child up to the age of 10. I would like to ask the Minister: What preventive measures will be taken to improve the situation in this area? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u338	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! The question is to the government, it's about entrepreneurs who are in the manufacturing, manufacturing, importing tobacco products today. What actions have been taken to help them, to support them, when they lose after the law comes into force, when they have to fire people from work, when these people are left without means to live? That's the first question. The second question is what actions will be addressed to farmers who today get all their profits through tobacco production. What aid will they receive to re-scan their holdings, to repay their loans, to keep their jobs, because they are often also employers? Question three. How did the Minister of Agriculture maintain in the debate within the European Union, but also in the debate on this project within the government, and what was his position on the loss of jobs and profitability of thousands of farms in Poland involved in the production of raw tobacco? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u340	Thank you very much, sir. The last question is asked by Mr Tomasz Latos, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u341	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Although it is not customary for the rapporteur to ask questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u342	That's why I was surprised.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u343	I understand, Your Marshal, because I will certainly take advantage of the opportunity to summarize the discussion, but I have noticed that one thread is omitted, and I think it is worth asking the Minister about it, and then he will no longer have the opportunity to answer. Well, I wanted to ask the Minister about the place we are taking with regard to issues relating to the fight against tobacco addiction and the bill we have adopted and this amendment. What do we look like in relation to other countries, both European and worldly? I think we have something to show for it in general, but it's worth it, too, coming out of the Minister's mouth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u344	Thank you very much, sir. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Jarosław Pinkas, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u345	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to quote the words of my boss, Minister Radziwiłł, who once said in the Seym: If I had to do just one thing as Minister of Health, this one thing is an important reduction in smoking. It's gonna be the biggest health benefit. I fully agree with what my boss said. This is a big day - I can stand before you today and in some way refer to something extraordinary that is happening today, namely we have a real chance that many Poles will not lose their lives so that we spend money on health care in a more rational way, not on the treatment of detoxic diseases, but on prevention and on a whole range of other public health events. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of questions here, and I will answer some in writing, of course. On the other hand, there was concern, a note related to prevention. It's not like we're gonna finish our work on this bill. This is the beginning of our journey so that Poles stop smoking cigarettes. At the moment, we are implementing major educational programmes, which are related to the National Health Programme, which is likely to be signed within the next two weeks, approved by the Council of Ministers. We finally have the resources. There is a very important second operational objective: prevention and resolution of problems with the use of psychoactive substances and behavioural addictions and other risky behaviours. Finally we have a dozen million zlotys for massaged educational campaigns, for real promotion, for real research, because at least 10% This appropriation is intended to cover the provision for us to have the right knowledge, which allows us to react properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I know this bill is controversial, but it's really a truism to say that health is the most important thing. I think that our Polish farmers can handle this situation perfectly, but they can still produce tobacco, but not for us, not for Poles. We can't afford to make the mistakes that are on us right now. Until 20 years ago, 50% of Poles smoked tobacco. We will spend or spend PLN 140 billion on detoxic diseases in the next 10 years, but maybe in the future we will spend less if we are a primary. This bill is a very good bill, it is the best law on public health in this parliament. But I have a problem and this Parliament can go into history as a parliament that will do something completely extraordinary for our society. He can take action - I suggest that these actions be taken by this Parliament - so that Poland is free from tobacco, for example. in 2030. Let's go on the road of Finland, this educational activity, it's our principle, it's our conversation with young people, it's talking with other resorts, so that everyone in this room can speak with one voice. I'm asking you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u346	Thank you very much, Minister. I understand that Mr Tomasz Latos, the draftsman of the committee, now wishes to speak. [[Yes, Your Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u347	Thank you very much. Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I owe a few words to the summary. Well, I wanted to stress that the work on this bill was very substantive, calmly and I would say basically, basically in the sense of what the Minister said, extending the smoke-free space. I am aware that if there were no detoxic diseases, no nicotine, many billions of zlotys could be saved and allocated to other areas of medicine, for the treatment of many diseases. That is why I would like to thank all the members of the two committees very much for their smooth, very balanced and really very agreeable procedures. Of course, we differed in some detail, but generally, in principle, everyone took a very similar position. Finally, I would like to thank the resort for preparing a good bill. We remember that we took off with some delay and we had to adopt this law as soon as possible, because EU deadlines They were chasing us. This was done really well. Well, I think we have a good bill after we vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u348	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the retail tax, - amending the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act, - amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, - on the amendment of the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and on the amendment of the Law on perpetual books and mortgage. The reports shall be printed in No 691, as appropriate. 674, 675 and 688. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws (prints No 648 and No 658). I ask Mr Grzegorz Schreiber to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure to submit a report on the draft Parliamentary Rail Transport Act. The report is contained in print No 658. High Izbo, based on the National Railway Programme by 2023, is planned to spend PLN 67.5 billion on rail infrastructure investments. This concerns the financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. The applicants, when preparing and presenting this proposal to the High House, intended to help ensure that legal solutions do not hinder the smooth completion of this extremely difficult task. The aim of the project is therefore to introduce changes to speed up procedures for the preparation and execution of further infrastructure investments. The project - as a result, if the High Sejm were to accept this project, and we hope it will improve the process of preparing and implementing the investment undertaken by railway infrastructure managers, including in particular by PKP PLK SA. What does this project contain? Well, I will mention only a few of the most important threads, most of which the committee leaned over. Namely, the project introduces new obligations of real estate buyers and sellers. The project offers the possibility to suspend proceedings for the issue of a building permit decision for other investments planned to be implemented in the area covered by the request for a decision to determine the location of the railway line. The project shall specify the time frame necessary for the arrangements for the removal of the collisions with the Gestors of the land arms network. The draft sets out the rules for amending final localization decisions, sets out the modalities for the delivery of letters and decisions in appeals and emergency proceedings concerning localization decisions, finally eliminates interpretation doubts regarding the establishment of the perpetual right of use, including land owned by the State Treasury prior to the adoption of the localisation decision. The project includes multi-annual programming aimed at making the updating process of the multiannual programme more flexible, including investments on railway lines. It seems that these and others, which are already not mentioned here by me, the elements of this project give and will give the opportunity to effectively release these very large measures envisaged for the development of railway infrastructure. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Rail Transport Act entered the Sejm on 16 June 2016, on 22 June was sent to the first reading and on 23 June, the first reading was held in the committee. As a result of work on this day, the committee was able to prepare a report, which today I have the honour of presenting to the High House. The Commission adopted eight amendments, mostly legislative amendments. It is worth noting that all the amendments, as well as the whole of the law, were adopted unanimously by the Infrastructure Commission. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to ask the High Sejm to adopt a parliamentary bill amending the Rail Transport Act from print No. 658. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u350	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Józef Leśniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u351	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws, print Nos 648 and 658. The aim of the bill is to facilitate and accelerate the implementation of railway investments and, after completion of construction works, to take up use efficiently. The development of the railway network, its acceleration, is a prerequisite both for the long-term development of the country and for catching up on this matter between Poland and most European Union countries. The proposed regulation is a consequence of the recommendations published by the European Commission on the implementation by Member States of the Europe 2020 strategy, which pointed out the need to increase the efficiency of infrastructure investments carried out and to improve the institutional capacity of public administrations involved in this process. The need for the implementation of the National Railway Programme by 2023, which includes spending on railway infrastructure investments of PLN 67.5 billion, requires further facilitation and simplification of the preparation and implementation of investments undertaken by PKP PLK SA. The regulations proposed in the procedated draft law refer to the Rail Transport Act and to the provisions on public finances. Allow me to lean on two major changes. The bill introduces new obligations for real estate buyers and sellers. On the date of service of the notice of initiation of the procedure, the decision to determine the location of the railway line until the final conclusion of the procedure for the issue of such a decision shall not be issued for the construction permit for other investments and the pending proceedings in these cases shall be suspended. The Act introduces a 14-day time frame for terms of agreement. In order to accelerate the process of rail infrastructure investments, solutions were proposed identical to those of the Law of 10 April 2003 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of public road investments. The proposed law allows for a change of decision without the need to obtain the consent of all parties to the proceedings. Designed art. 9q also makes it possible to notify the second instance of the decision to determine the location of the railway line to the address indicated in the real estate cadastre. Article 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the amendment of the decision to determine the location of the railway line. 155 k.p.a. provided that only the party who applied for a decision to determine the location of the railway line agrees. In the case of large rail investments due to the broad list of parties to the proceedings, it is very difficult to obtain the consent of all parties to the review of the decision. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As part of the clarification of the bill, I declare on behalf of the club an amendment to delete point 6. The proposed bill will have an impact on speeding up the implementation of rail investments and simplifying the spending of funds. The entry into force of the proposed regulation will not have to bear expenditure directly from the state budget or from the budgets of local government units. Procedures for the preparation and implementation of rail infrastructure investments will be accelerated. The proposed regulation is also not contrary to European Union law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft of a necessary law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u352	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u353	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. The entire Act has 13 chapters, amendments are only in five chapters, these are the following chapters: Chapter 2. Railway infrastructure, Chapter 2b. Detailed rules and conditions for the preparation of investments concerning railway lines, Chapter 4a. Conditions for ensuring the interoperability of the railway system in the territory of the Republic of Poland, Chapter 7..Fi-financing of investments, Chapter 9. Location of buildings and buildings, trees, shrubs and the execution of earth works in the vicinity of railway lines. In the beginning, I would like to inform you that the Civic Platform Club supports amendments to the Rail Transport Act, because they will speed up investment and we have a lot of work ahead of us that needs to be done, which is why this special act is necessary. However, I regret that this project is a parliamentary project, not a government project, and therefore there is a greater likelihood of errors. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, the main purpose of the regulation is to introduce simplification solutions into the system and speed up the work related to the preparation and implementation of rail infrastructure investments. This is certainly the right assumption, but it is not possible to lose sight of the elements relevant to persons and institutions to which the new law will affect. My concern is art. 57a. The provision that the derogation must not endanger the safety of rail traffic makes it a dead record. Rather, it should be noted that the derogation will not result in an unacceptable increase in risk, since a tree that has been hit by the tracks always creates such a danger. There are also mouths in this article. 2, which raises doubts. In this paragraph, it shall be stated that the derogations shall be granted by the governor. This is not the correct record, because if it is the ground up to a width of 15 m and the railway area, i.e. the closed area, then you need to know that the oldosta does not work in closed areas. This is the jurisdiction of the voivodship. So there may be a competence gap when the governor says that this is not his territory, and the voivode finds that the law imposes a derogation on the old lady and there will be no one to decide, and that is not what this law was about. That is why we propose this change. This is a very important change to assign these competences immediately. The prohibition also raises the question of Article. 9o, which states that in the event of the disposal of the ownership or right of use of perpetual immovable property covered by the application for a decision to determine the location of railway lines after the notification of the initiation of the procedure, the purchaser and the seller shall be obliged to notify the relevant voivode of the data of the new owner or perpetual user within 7 days. I think it's a little exaggerated, too, because 14 days would be the optimal time, the right conditions. Another question is the obligation imposed on the railway infrastructure manager to adapt safety management systems to the provisions of the Act within 3 months of its entry into force. This provision indirectly involves a period of vacathio legis, 14 days. These are too short terms to introduce and test changes. As we know, in neighbouring countries, this testing is more than a year old. These are safety issues, and this is very important for passenger safety and infrastructure in general. Therefore, we should extend the terms: vacathio legis - minimum 30 days, adaptation of safety management systems - at least 6 months. The last element that raises doubts is the proposal that local authorities should, however, be able to waive the right to compensation for the land used for the construction of railway lines. This may be part of the pressure on the authorities of local government units requested by the investor to decide, and it must be remembered that the plots in different parts of Poland have different values. For some people, the donation of the plot will not be a problem, for other local authorities it may be a significant loss to the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is certainly good to have it in the nearest surroundings of the train station and railway station, but it is not the best solution to put local governments before deciding to give up compensation. In conclusion, most of the provisions introduced will certainly speed up and facilitate the development of rail networks, but some provisions of the project need to be further improved. The Civic Platform, as I said initially, supports the entire bill, but the two amendments I have been talking about will be acceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u354	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Rail Transport, Seym Printing Nos 648 and 658. The Act in its original form and wording has entered into force and has been in force since 1 June 2003. The draft amendment to the Law on Rail Transport has entered the Sejm on 16 June, and on 23 June this year. the first reading took place in the Parliamentary Committee. The question is: Will this bill contribute to the passage of railway routes? Does Law and Justice have an idea for systemic solutions in the field of sustainable transport, looking at that 99% the funds allocated by the EU Transport Projects Centre go to road projects? The aim of the new rules is to simplify and speed up the preparation and implementation of rail infrastructure investments, as justified by the designers. However, the Kukiz Club15 dwarfs this optimism. For example, provisions which allow for a change in the decision to establish the location of a railway line without the need to obtain the consent of all parties to the proceedings are difficult to swallow. In addition, Members and applicants also submitted other amendments to the Rail Transport Act. I'll give you the most important one. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9q The abolition of requirements for the protection of the interests of third parties when deciding on the location of a railway line may result in considerable controversy and even a dispute over the course of the railway route. PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe acquires by law from the date on which the decision to determine the location of the railway line became final, the right to use perpetual land acquired by law by the State Treasury or which are its property and ownership of buildings, other facilities and premises located on these properties. If there is a social or economic interest in this respect, the Treasury or the local government unit may waive, in whole or in part, the right to compensation for immovable property intended for the purpose of the railway investment. It is controversial that the competent construction supervisory authority may decide to authorise the use of the railway line despite failure to comply with environmental requirements. There is a lack of momentum and legislative debate in this law. The old regulations have been refreshed and the railway infrastructure manager's powers have been added by mechanical means. Everything's still the same. Moloch and PLK monopoly and local government units with a limited budget have the right to build railway lines. There are no clear rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the construction of the railway line. Let us be clear: the Polish government is responsible for rail transport. Here we should ask: Is the implementation of trans-European rail corridors and freight transport envisaged in Poland? Will new locations in the absence of investment in old railway lines reduce infrastructure management costs and rail transport costs? Will there be preferential rates of access to PLK infrastructure for intermodal transport, e.g. port - hub - destination land terminal? Will train paths continue to be suspended for a year or longer? To sum up, for the competitiveness of rail transport vis-à-vis e.g. It is important that the rail network is sufficiently developed to ensure that possible upgrades do not limit the system's capacity. It should be added here that in 2015 the average commercial speed of trains was around 23 km/h with a high delay rate, with the need to travel through designated detours, which is already increasing the energy intensity of transport. We are dealing with high freight costs here. The purpose of the bill is conditional on catching up in this field of transport, as well as the need to make full use of the European Union's funding from the Operational Programme (Facilities and Environment) for the years 2014-2020. The intentions are good, but the method of execution is far from ideal. However, Kukiz15 will support the project, taking into account the specifics of the need for a full implementation of the National Railway Program, as well as the support of the railway sector in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u356	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u357	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws contained in print No. 648, following the report of the committee in print No. 658. In line with the justification set out by the group of applicants, the main purpose of the regulation is to introduce simplification solutions into the legal system and to speed up the preparation and implementation of rail infrastructure investments. Further to the justification for the law, the applicant indicates that speeding up the development of the railway network is a prerequisite for catching up in this area and the basis for the long-term development of the country. The need for further simplification in this regard is due to the demand for the full implementation of the Operational Programme "Infrastructure and the environment" for the period 2014-2020, in other words, to spend all possible resources. In addition, the project responds to the need to improve the institutional capacity of public administrations, as the European Commission points out as a prerequisite for improving the efficiency of infrastructure investments. These are undoubtedly noble goals. The project itself contains a number of regulations which, according to the applicant's representative, meet the expectations set before the project. These are among others. as referred to in Article. 9o new obligations for buyers and real estate sellers resulting in the obligation of the buyer and the seller of the property covered by the application for a decision to determine the location of the railway line to notify the relevant voivodeship of the data of the new owner or perpetual user within 7 days of the date of disposal. Importantly, the proposed provision in the event of a timely filing of a notification excludes the possibility of reopening proceedings without the participation of a new owner or perpetual user in a final decision. Also in the article. 9o is required to suspend certain proceedings in respect of immovable property covered by a request for a decision to determine the location of a railway line. Another proposed provision in Article. 9oa introduces a time frame for the removal of conflicts by setting a 14-day deadline for the arrangements. The lack of such sharpening often significantly prolongs the time needed to agree and causes delays. This, of course, is an important change. It is similar with another provision in Article. 9u, which allows a change of decision without the need to obtain the consent of all parties to the proceedings. This will also undoubtedly speed up the investment process. Another provision introduces the possibility for a body acting on behalf of the Treasury and local government to waive the right to compensation. This, of course, also causes, in specific cases, that, if the interest of the local community is in favour of this, the economic interest... This is, of course, an important recipe. The project also introduces the possibility of operating the structural subsystem in the period prior to obtaining the authorisation for placing in service. However, this is subject to the need to obtain these documents within a period of not more than 9 months. The project also introduces slightly controversial solutions to implement all elements or to carry out investment-related work before all environmental-related elements are carried out. This is, as I said, a slightly controversial solution, but of course in the interest of implementing all these projects within a reasonable time. Unfortunately, the opinions presented by the Sejm Analysis Office raised doubts about the possible non-compliance of the article. 9af a project with European Union law due to the approval of the above mentioned. a provision in which, in certain cases, measures or arrangements which have been imposed by a decision on environmental conditions will not be implemented before the operation of the railway lines starts. Here, of course, we fully share the point of view of the applicants who want to bring about the elimination of certain administrative barriers and the bureaucratic burden to be spread over time while maintaining this rail traffic. And it's all for a noble purpose, that is, for dynamics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] rail infrastructure investments. However, in view of these doubts indicated just now, I would very much ask that the applicant's representative and the Minister for this letter respond to this position of the Sejm Analysis Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u358	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u359	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are proceeding today, we are continuing to work on a parliamentary bill amending the Rail Transport Act and some other laws. As the rapporteur, President of our Committee on Infrastructure, and my predecessors, the proposed and revised bill aims to create better, convenient, meeting the current challenges and conditions for infrastructure investments in the area of rail transport. It is very important that we improve, introduce new solutions and entries in legislation that will enable us to carry out externally supported tasks. In this case, it is the infrastructure and environment programme. Those of you, those of us who have had the opportunity to keep track of the whole process of preparation, negotiation, formation of entries into the programmes for the current period 2014-2020, 2022 and programmes implemented and managed at central level, as well as regional operational programmes, know and remember that the representatives of the European Commission have paid significant attention and put emphasis on shifting the burden of spending funds in the area of infrastructure from road infrastructure to railway infrastructure. And these records were included in these programs. It is good that we are going in this direction, that we explain, we formulate certain provisions that will help prepare the whole, as always difficult investment process, because the amount of 67.5 billion is a very significant financial volume, which without proper preparation, without creating legal and formal safeguards, would be very difficult to issue - sometimes we say that we have spent - to invest, to properly use and arrange investment tasks on the railway network to correspond in the long term to these assumptions concerning the economic development of the country. Implementation, construction of new sections of the railway line, and to a large extent modernization, reconstruction, adaptation to technical requirements and parameters, are also a very important element of the strategic assumptions of our country, as in the government reports of Poland 2030 and Poland 2050, as well as in regional operational programmes, and will also be able both at the level of voivodships, i.e. regions and at the level of the country to serve the proper use or creation of conditions for the preparation of the entire investment process. On the other hand, it is also an important element to include records here and to specify at the various stages of the preparation of the investment process, it is a decision on building conditions, building permit, use permit and many other issues that will allow for prior use or use of a specific section after construction or reconstruction. As a club of the Polish People's Party, we will vote in favour of finalising the legislative work and adopting the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u360	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Rail Transport and some other laws. A good communication network nowadays is the basis for the functioning of the state. Creating fast and cheap transport opportunities for people and goods is an opportunity to find better jobs, to benefit from high-quality higher education in large academic centres, to create opportunities for developing trade and services, is an opportunity for developing regions and the whole country. A modern railroad with a network evenly covering the area of Poland is a necessary complement to the network of wheeled roads, more ecological, safer and cheaper. What the network of rail connections in our country looks like, just look at the map. Modern investments are necessary throughout the country, but especially in the east of Poland. The entry into force of the proposed regulation will not result directly in the need to bear expenditure from the state budget or from the budget of local government units. The proposed regulation does not impose additional financial obligations on local government units or on the budget of the State. The bill introduces the possibility to waive the right to compensation. The body acting on behalf of the Treasury and the local government unit may, but it does not have to waive the right to compensation. It is therefore proposed that the State Treasury or the local government unit, if there is a social or economic interest to do so, may waive, in whole or in part, the right to compensation for immovable property which becomes the property of the State Treasury or the property of the relevant local government units from the date on which the decision to determine the location of the railway line became final. Such waiver must take place in writing under the condition of nullity. This statement may be made only until the final decision to determine the compensation has been taken. This is quite controversial because of the pressure that PKP PLK will certainly exert on local government units due to the social or economic interest, but on the other hand it will contribute to optimizing expenditure on investments in railway infrastructure. However, it should be stressed that, according to the draft amendment to the law, the decision to waive compensation by local government units or the Treasury will not be compulsory. The amendments contained in the draft law are corrective in nature, will simplify and accelerate preparatory work on investments related to the development of railway infrastructure and, most importantly, block the possibility of taking actions that may prolong this work over time. Accelerating the development of the railway network is a prerequisite for Poland to catch up on economic arrears in this area vis-à-vis most countries of the European Union and will become the basis for the country's long-term development. The need for further simplification of the preparation and implementation of infrastructure investments in rail transport is also due to the need for the full implementation of the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment 2014-2020. An additional justification for the need for the proposed amendments shall be published annually by the European Commission so-called. recommendations, CSR, related to the implementation by Member States of the Europe 2020 strategy. The recommendations addressed to Poland since 2012 indicate the need to increase the efficiency of infrastructure investments carried out and to improve the institutional capacity of public administrations involved in this process. Regardless of the above. There is a need for the implementation of the National Railway Programme by 2023, which includes spending on railway infrastructure investments of PLN 67.5 billion. This implies the need to facilitate and simplify the process of preparing the implementation of investments undertaken by PKP PLK. A short time of preparation and construction of railway infrastructure is important for investors - today factories are being built in a few months. Delays in the construction of railway infrastructure may result in a change in investor's decision to locate new industrial investments and thus a loss of development opportunities. A dense, technologically modern and well-organized rail network, like a good network of road connections, is the cycle of a rapidly growing economy. The implementation of the National Railway Programme by 2023 and the rail infrastructure investments will continue to be possible by means of the proposed amendment of the Act. The development of railway infrastructure will improve and increase the flow of goods through Poland in transit traffic, which will become one of many flywheels of dynamic development of the Polish economy in the framework of the implementation of the plan for responsible development by Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. In the opinion of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, amendments to the Act will have a positive impact on speeding up the implementation of railway investments and simplifying the spending of funds, which will benefit the economic development of the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle will support the draft law on amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Members have joined the task of questioning. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. Question time - 1 minute. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act introduces simplifications that will allow for accelerating rail infrastructure investments. The novel assumes e.g. the possibility of authorising the use of a railway despite non-compliance with environmental requirements. And here we have some controversy. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 9af concludes that the solutions imposed in the environmental decision will not have to be implemented before the start of the use of the railway line, whereas the authority issuing the environmental decision makes the implementation of the investment conditional on compliance with environmental conditions. In the proposed provision we therefore agree to use the railway line without complying with the requirements of the environmental decision. I mean, for example. drainage or animal passage systems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask: are these solutions in line with the EU Directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u364	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u365	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the past few years, there has been a great deal of neglect in terms of investment in rail infrastructure. The Act aims to simplify and accelerate the work of preparing and implementing rail infrastructure investments. The question is this: Can we assess the impact of these investments on the regions at this stage of the bill process? I mean especially Opole. Three large investments of a trans-regional nature were originally planned in Opolskie Voivodship. Two of them seem to be safe, according to information received from the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here we are talking about the revitalization of the route E30 Western Opole - Kędzierzyn-Koźle and the line no.277 Opole-Groszowice - Jelcz - Wrocław-Brochów. On the other hand, the third of the major trans-regional investments, the revitalization of route No 144 Kluczbork - Namysów - Oleśnica - Wrocław is being questioned. It was originally in the national railway programme valued at PLN 500 million, but after careful analysis it turned out that the real cost should be estimated at PLN 1100 million. The modernisation was therefore to be completely abandoned in the near future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to the actions undertaken by the group of Members, including myself, the infrastructure ministry started the procedure for preparing documentation and then obtaining environmental decisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u366	Close to the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u367	When funding and implementation are provided, however, it is not yet known. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u368	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been argued many times here that, according to the draft amendment to the Railway Transport Act, the construction supervisory authority may, despite failure to comply with environmental requirements, decide to allow the use of the railway line. Has the legislative work taken into account the fact that, for the newly built or upgraded existing railway line, the decision on the environmental conditions for the implementation of the investment could already contain all the required permits, provided that the implementation would, of course, correspond to the project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u370	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Barbara Dziuk, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you a question about the connection between Katowice and Pyrzowice Airport. This is a combination that has not been created, this investment has not been finalised for 25 years. I think it's been too long. I would like to point out that there have been two hearings on environmental impacts, where formal errors have been proved to the designer and that the Ministry of Infrastructure has been misled three times. Minister, lines 131 and 182 are the most appropriate lines that can quickly connect Katowice to the entire region, including the airport. I would ask very much for priority to be given to this subject, because the argument of the Marshal's office, as well as some politicians in the field of some kind of legs, is at least strange or controversial. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would very much ask you to lean on the subject, because more than 100 NGOs from behind and before Brynica joined forces and here we will also fight for normality. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u372	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary projects have such a beauty that they are not consulted. It is a pity, because this project or this matter is ideal to talk about it with the local government, and the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission would have a lot to contribute here. I think that the municipality of Kluczbork would talk about her experiences, which, in the wake of the decommissioned railway line, built a fantastic road bypass that relieves the road system here. Why am I talking about this? Because in this matter there is a need for symmetry between state and local authorities. This applies to the possibility of a plot moving one way or the other. It seems that the expectation that local authorities should pass on their land, relinquishing their right to compensation, should also work the other way, because it is essential for local governments to own certain parcels. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I know this because as a voivode, I have been conducting a series of cases involving the transfer of railway stations or other parcels that were of great importance to local authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u374	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u375	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The development of the railway infrastructure is expected and all measures must be taken to ensure that the funds envisaged for this purpose in this financial perspective are used. Bearing in mind the extent to which the previous government has committed delays in this respect and has subsequently recovered unused funds, it is necessary to make every effort to implement these investments. Therefore, the question arises as to whether these changes which we are introducing today by this Act should not have been made earlier by the previous government in such a way that these investments which are planned have a chance to be implemented in this financial perspective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u376	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As an architect, as a designer a few years ago, I redesigned the Gryfin railway station. I saw these problems when we were going to redesign platforms or networks around the train station. I've seen what a gehenna it was for a designer who had to make a lot of very difficult environmental arrangements and with an antique conservator. The investment also passed through the plots, whether it's the troops, whether it's the local government, or various other entities. So this bill goes in a very good direction. Simplifying and accelerating these works is for us designers, for construction companies very good direction. If we're going to bet on the railroad - of course we all agree that yes - it's the right direction. But I also have this kind of strategic question. Will there be adjustments in the national railway programme? There's been a meeting with the president of China lately. Will the silk trail, which will, bring changes to the national railway program? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, will the routes be changed? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u378	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u379	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the investment. If the investment is only extended, it would not be possible to draw up only the so-called. The KIP, which is the information card of the venture, instead of the report? On the other hand, only when the new line is built from the beginning. Second question. Railway investments, which were carried out in the previous stage, focused primarily on increasing speed. Couldn't we now also work on increasing capacity, which is very important? Third question to the Minister. How do you look at electrification of railway lines and what percentage is expected for electrification in Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u380	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u381	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address the question rather to the government's representative, adding to the question of whether I was talking in the middle of a club appearance. Well, we have two opinions from the Sejm Analysis Office. The latter simply states that the bill is not a project implementing European Union law, and that is a clear matter. In the first opinion, the Sejm Analysis Office claimed that this project could be incompatible with European Union law. I would like to ask if, as part of your work on this project, you have carried out an analysis of how far this could possibly affect those projects that will be implemented under these provisions, the effects that this might have on them, whether any non-compliance could cause the need for reimbursement or any other consequences. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd really like an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u382	Thank you very much, sir. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Tomasz Żuchowski will answer the questions. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u383	Dear Marshal! High Seym! At the beginning, I would like to thank all the clubs very warmly for supporting the changes that are included in this project, because, as you have rightly noticed here, it is necessary to make these changes in order to improve the preparation and the initial stage for the start of construction works, rail investments. The issue of quotas has already come from both the rapporteur and other parliamentarians today, so we know what matter we are dealing with. Do we know what the status quo was? the lack of infrastructure projects at this point in time. Thus, on a good point, the draft law removes all the barriers which in the Rail Transport Act at that time had been in operation, and, moreover, prevented the effective implementation of the investment. These are all those issues that have been noted as such, so to speak, the most sensitive reefs that have eliminated, say, the efficient execution of the investment. What's more, if you read into other specifics, because here you should also point out that, for example. by the way We have a specialty to implement road investments, which gives ZRIDs, i.e. the decision to implement road investment. In the case of railway investments, we have two stages: the building law and the localization decision, in this respect, as we know, in all these special laws - probably nine more are in public space - we have different factors, denominators used for individual investments. This also caused some kind of investment paralysis, and the decisions put forward here so on a good case are exhausting the catalogue of those records which already exist in other laws and which, by nature, were not reflected in the railway law, and thus such a situation. There were also issues of different circumstances here. On the issue of transport, the improvement of the specific connections that have been indicated here, whether line 131 will of course be written. Regarding Mrs Barbara Dziuk's question about the impact on the regions: This law is systemic, here at the moment all the investments that are contained in the NCP will be implemented. Therefore, wherever we face investment, the use of all the conditions that this law provides gives us the opportunity to make investments more efficient. Moreover, at this moment it directly coincides with the query prepared by the Management Board of PKP PLK together with the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, who identified these largest reefs of today's railway investments. There were also questions about environmental issues and art. 9af. It should be pointed out here, ladies and gentlemen, that in the 2012 Road Construction Act, in the Law of 30 March 2012, the same records appeared, i.e. Article 2 Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and 4. And for a good cause, these provisions in this draft law are the currency of the records in the road specific, which, as I mentioned, were adopted on 30 March 2012. In view of the above, these are not solutions which at the moment appear on the sidelines of this law as new ones which have not yet been. Issues related to new responsibilities have also been raised. Today, all these deadlines must be short-term, so as to actually speed up. We can't give you long deadlines. All those so-called things. Good background and good actions can burn on the pan if procedures are extended. For the good news, we know that time is not our ally, therefore such, and not other conditions must take place here. As far as possibilities are concerned, because this is also the place where compensation is renounced, this is the issue today, for example. it operates in a road specific and it turns out that local governments often want to make these changes. It is important to reassure all countries who see some kind of threat here that the Law on the discipline of public finances at this point in time is very effective when we are talking about the aspect of some kind of abuse. Therefore, it is a mechanism giving this possibility, not a pre-imposed order, a mechanism that will make it more flexible for a good trade in one way or the other. There was also a safety issue. This is today's buffer issue. There is talk of a distance of 15 m, while we have areas such as Hel or the parks through which railroads are conducted, where this buffer zone often causes human protests. Therefore, it seems appropriate that the possibility to grant a derogation from such an order to maintain a rigid threshold in the decommissioning of trees should have an old-timer. Moreover, the oldosta is bound by the Environmental Protection Act as the one which, regardless of the types of land, makes decisions on the cutting of trees. Therefore, given the safety factor, it seems appropriate that such conditions should be here. It is known that at this point it is assessed by the body, by the designer, by the infrastructure manager. We have derogations on the canvas, for example. The construction law since the application of 18 regulations - there is also a safety aspect identified as the one that is undeniable - therefore it seems that in this case this kind of situation is very desirable. Moreover, we have also gained such experience that even for about six months the agreements lasted, and even, you can say, shoving between the parties, and speaking of between those who wanted to leave these trees and those who wanted to cut out the trees, looking at it from the point of view of the rigidity of the rules. And one last sentence. As I mentioned earlier, the national railway programme is currently under preparation. It will probably still be subject to consultation this year, so it will also be possible to indicate regional conditions in the form of specific requests, concrete observations, so as to actually make it more flexible in the most pragmatic way possible. And here, on the occasion and on the honour of giving me the opportunity to answer the questions that you have asked, I would also like to ask you to express your approval for such solutions, because, as you mentioned at the beginning, for us today, the essence of what we have in mind is the realization of the railway infrastructure, the proper, reliable spending of funds. At the same time, at the moment, the measures that need to be taken are measures to eliminate all those barriers that are currently preventing the smooth preparation and implementation of investments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u384	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the committee rapporteur Mr Grzegorz Schreiber like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u385	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would just like to thank all Members of all parliamentary clubs briefly for their work in committee, where we very quickly followed up and prepared the report, as well as for the very substantive debate today during the plenary session of the Sejm. The amendments tabled will, of course, go to the committee, and we will proceed on them. On the other hand, it has appeared today - maybe I should like to refer to it just yet - a question raised by perhaps two Members concerning the amendment of Article 6. 9af. This proposal was challenged by the Sejm Analysis Office. Unfortunately, we've dealt with enough of this, it seems, chaotic and awkward analysis that has come to us. It is only worth noting what the Minister said, that these are provisions that are a repetition of the rules of the Road Act. In 2012, there was an analysis of the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which did not contain such a radically far-reaching opinion in relation to those records. It has been several years, in fact nothing has changed in this respect, but we have the opinion that we have received. However, despite these doubts, from what I have already been able to learn, it follows that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will propose an amendment so as not to pose a threat to the whole law, to the entire legislative process in this area, and will ask the High House to delete this change from the law, although we will do so with great pain and regret. But it is probably worth it for the purity of the case at this stage so that it has a shape that does not raise any doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u386	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (prints Nos 642 and 657). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u387	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to present a report to the committee, already known to all committee members. The Act concerns several laws and amendments to these laws, including the Act of 4 September on the departments of government administration. The law also applies to the Law of 31 January on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead. The law also applies to the Construction Law Act. The Act also applies to the Law of 9 October on revitalisation, as well as to the Law of 20 March on the security of mass events. The Sejm committee at the meetings discussed the submission. In the light of the changes that have been made, which have been explicitly accepted, I would like to make on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice simply a proposal to adopt the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u388	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Krupka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is mainly the result of the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November Ub. d. on the departments of government administration. At that time new ministries were established, including the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction and the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration was established, combining the competences of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and some of the competences of the Ministry of Administration and Digitisation. It's a bill of order. It regulates and accurately separates competences due to the substantive characteristics and assigns them to specific ministers in order to improve the functioning of the government administration in its current form, in order to create the conditions for the convenient interaction of the recently established resorts, to enable a rapid response to changing economic reality or the legal environment. The Act assigns e.g. The Technical Supervision Office of the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, but the project also delegates, for substantive reasons, a part of the competence of the Minister for Construction to other ministers. It introduces, for example, a change to the competent authority to issue a regulation setting out the requirements for cemeteries, graves and other burial sites. It has been issued by the Minister of Construction so far, but the project proposes that it be issued by the Minister of Health, but in agreement with the Minister of Construction. The Infrastructure Commission has made amendments concerning mainly naming. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I also propose that the following amendments be adopted: 1. Art. 1 is replaced by the following: 1. The Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration is amended as follows: 1. in Article 2, point (a) is replaced by the following: 9a in the mouth. Point 6 of point 1 is replaced by the following: revitalization, subject to Article. point 23a (2); 2. in Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced (a) point 2 is replaced by the following: the programming and implementation of regional policy, including urban policy and the coordination of programmes and actions for the rehabilitation of socially and economically degraded areas; (b) points 2a and 2b are deleted (amendments 1 and 4 must be considered together). 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 a new amendment should be added as follows: in Article. 20 in the paragraph. 2b in the entry into the calculation of the words "ust. 2. replace the words "ust." 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 2a, 3. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is (a) in point 1, the words "and" in Article 1 shall be deleted. 37b in the mouth. 4. (b) the following point 2a is inserted after point 2: 2a) in Article. 37b. 4 is replaced by the following: 4. The Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs and the Minister responsible for Construction, Planning and Land Planning and Housing, in agreement with the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for the Environment, will define, by regulation, the required scope of the plans contained in the text and graphics part drawn up in the form of a digital mapping based on databases, specifying in particular the planning materials, the type of cartographic studies, the scale of cartographic studies, the markings used, the nomenclature, standards and the way in which planning works are documented, with a view to the readability and transparency of plans and guidelines adopted by the Baltic Sea Environment Committee and the European Union's maritime spatial planning bodies. 4. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 point 2 is deleted. 5. Art. 16 is deleted... not specified here... [[Everything's deleted.]] Art. 59 is replaced by the following: 59. From the date of entry into force of this Regulation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Acting members of the Civil Service Corps employed in an office serving the Minister responsible for regional development and carrying out tasks before 27 November 2015 which are delegated to the Minister responsible for matters under this Law...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u390	Close to the end of your speech. Go ahead and finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u391	...building, planning and spatial planning and housing, become members of the civil service corps employed in an office serving the minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning... We also ask for amendments concerning, among others: Article 2 62 of the Act, Art. 63. I wanted to make such amendments on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u392	Thank you. If the Member had given us these amendments here, it would definitely have been... [[Here?]] Yeah, to the office. [[That'd be better.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u393	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws contained in print No 642, the report of the committee in print No 657. It is a simple, seemingly draft law transferring competence from one ministry to another in its main records. And we would probably have accepted this project unreservedly, but again something happened that shouldn't have happened and what really became the norm in this House. Namely, among the provisions governing the transfer of powers, there is a provision in the article. 57, which unfortunately has negative consequences for our local governments. In general terms, the Minister responsible for regional development, in agreement with the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, can define, by means of a regulation, the criteria and indicators for areas of regeneration enabling the financing of municipal regeneration programmes from the budget of the European Union or the state budget - including the provision of unlimited possibilities for interference with municipal regeneration programmes. Our doubts relate to the lack of precise writing to which the criteria and indicators described are to refer. As we know, areas of regeneration must comply with the statutory criteria. At the same time, the Act gives municipalities the opportunity to establish specific problem areas, adapted to local circumstances, and municipalities were obliged to use objective and verifiable test methods. The indicators to be carried out by the revitalisation project are also indicated in each operational programme from which the project will be financed. The definition of additional criteria and indicators for areas of regeneration at the level of the Minister's Regulation poses a risk of manual control in the identification of areas of regeneration and design of actions undertaken by municipalities in this area. Such a Regulation as referred to in Article. 57, will define a rigid framework - because such will be conditioned by indicators - and in this rigid framework will have to include regeneration programmes. This will absolutely centralise decisions on key issues for the development of local communities. The process of social participation and its impact on the programming and implementation of revitalization projects will be completely affected. There isn't, and we won't be able to do that. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes two amendments. One is the deletion in the article. 57, point 1. The second amendment concerns Article. 27 Amendments 7. This amendment aims to preserve the Article in the Law on spatial planning and development. 47a, which reads: "The Minister responsible for regional development shall make proposals for changes to the Council of Ministers, taking into account, in particular, the concept of spatial development of the country, as regards the development of spatial governance, the review and analysis of the principles, the way in which the institutions, procedures and instruments operate. The resignation of the Minister in the field of regional development from the function of a monitoring body for the state of spatial governance and recommending a solution for its improvement will be detrimental to the development of the country, as spatial governance is the main measure of sustainable development. I hereby submit these amendments and ask the High House, and before that, the committee, to accept them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u394	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, the Kukiz club15, has submitted an opinion in writing to the minutes. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u395	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other Print Act No. 642 after the report of the committee in print No. 657. Ladies and gentlemen! During the committee's meeting, we worked quite thoroughly on the draft law that is the subject of today's proceedings. In fact, it is a consequence of earlier changes in the matter which the High House adopted a few months ago, and as the applicant's representative rightly referred to at first reading, it can be called even in some way a cleaning act. Of course, we understand that you have reviewed the rules and that is why there is a need for amendments to some 50 laws. Of course, sometimes it is necessary to put the rules in order. On this occasion, however, I would like to call once again on the issue of drafting legislation, to try to analyse the effects immediately, and then avoid some kind of confusion in the process and later in the implementation of these provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned, this draft was discussed and worked in detail during the committee work. It contains a number of provisions related to the change in the structure of the current government department: construction, spatial planning and development and housing. We view this as legitimate changes resulting from earlier novels, as I have already mentioned. In addition, the project includes e.g. the amendment to clarify that the regional development, programming and implementation of regional policy cover urban policy and the coordination of programmes and actions for the revitalization of socially and economically degraded areas. The draft also amends the Law of 9 October 2015 on revitalisation, adding a provision authorising the Minister for Regional Development to issue, in agreement with the Minister for Construction, a regulation laying down criteria and indicators for areas of regeneration enabling the financing of municipal regeneration programmes from funds from the budget of the European Union or the State budget. Of course, this was also of interest to the committee. The reasons which were presented during the committee's meeting are well founded. However, we have this impression and there is a danger that this provision can be applied depending on the need for this regulation to be published in such a form that it will be quite high discretion, or it will determine the conditions that will correspond to the chosen e.g. a group of cities or a selected region of the country. We only hope, however, that the government will avoid such temptation to artificially divide these funds into misdemeanor funds. On the way back to this project, we will also find changes in the procedated novel by transferring the powers of the Minister to other ministers, precisely because of their substantive competence. These are, of course, legitimate changes. The draft also provides for the repeal of the Article. 23a point 2a of the Law on Government Administrations, which is the result of the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015, which provided that all matters relating to spatial planning and management, without further differentiation to local, national and regional levels, would fall within the competence of the Minister responsible for construction, spatial planning and development and housing. Consequently, we will also find provisions that fall under the heading: Regional development, programming and implementation of regional policy now include urban policy and the coordination of programmes and actions for the regeneration of socially and economically degraded areas, and the project therefore repeals point 2b of Article. 23a. The above solutions are also reflected in the Article. 27 draft amendment to the Law of 27 March 2003 on spatial planning and development, where the project introduces inter alia. a change receiving a statutory authorisation as set out in Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. In addition, the Act introduces an amendment to the Office of Technical Supervision, which would now be subject to the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at the outset, we understand that the project submitted is the result of a review and therefore the need for changes presented in the project. These amendments should be adopted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the position of the Poselski Club presented by me Modern will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u396	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The work carried out on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Government Departments Act is a further consistent and necessary action to clarify, equip with appropriate mechanisms, in appropriate attributes, in the corresponding records of new resorts which were created as a result of the establishment of the Government after 25 October. We believe that this is a logical, consistent action to secure the legal basis for the functioning of individual departments in the government and to assist in the implementation of tasks and activities programmes. We are dealing with the shifts of specific competences and tasks between the resorts, and we also have a clarification and grouping of specific issues, specific actions and areas of action. My previous speakers talked about spatial development, issues related to the implementation of EU-funded tasks, such as revitalization. I was talking about revitalization, this issue, I was saying, I was paying attention during the previous debate on this bill. I think that all these provisions have one purpose - ordering matters, but I would kindly like to stress and ask for a re-examination of those provisions which are talking about creating additional criteria at the level of the Ministry, and they are about revitalizing and carrying out these tasks in the area of municipalities and powiats. As far as we know, revitalization as a task carried out and financed under the regional operational programme is to meet the specific criteria that are included in this programme. On the other hand, creating additional criteria will complicate this issue and may raise various doubts. Another area for which we would like to exchange thoughts on the committee is the area for the development and preparation of spatial planning plans, so-called. spatial governance, and the matter of writing, which clearly speaks of the role of minister. In my view, it does not stress the rights and opportunities of regional self-government in the development of spatial planning plans in regions, which were among the basic documents that required the completion of negotiations on regional operational programmes. It is important that these regional documents are consistent with the country's spatial planning plan, but this requires certain arrangements and records. Nevertheless, as a club, we will strive for the provisions to be formulated and the bill was adopted in the final. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u398	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws. The regulations proposed by the projectors relate to the structure of the government administration: Construction, spatial planning and development and housing. The bill under investigation includes clarification and clarification of the current legislation. I consider it reasonable to define matters of regeneration, except for the revitalization of socially and economically degraded areas, as the competence of the government department mentioned above. It is also clear that the issues of programming and implementation of regional policy include urban policy and the coordination of programmes and actions for the revitalization of socially and economically degraded areas that do not raise my concerns. In view of the competence of the Technical Supervision Authority, its operation in the area of safety of technical equipment is right, I consider the proposal to change the authority over this State institution from the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs to the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing. The regulations proposed in the Law on cemeteries and the hiding of the dead as changes of order, clarifying the Ministry of Health as the host of this Act, I also consider it appropriate. I agree with the justification of the projectors that the cemetery is not a building but a building, so the technical conditions to be met by the construction sites and their location should be defined by regulation by competent ministers in agreement with the relevant Minister for Construction, Planning and Spatial Planning and Housing. Given the above justification, considering that the stadium is not a building either, but a building, I support the amendment of the Law on security of mass events. The addition in the Revitalisation Act of the Minister responsible for regional development, in agreement with the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, by means of a regulation, of criteria and indicators for areas of regeneration enabling the financing of municipal regeneration programmes from the budget of the European Union or from the state budget, is a positive assessment. However, I hope that this is optional, not top-down interference when there is no basis for this, in line with the assurances made by Mr Aleksandr Mr Forczynski and the representative of the Ministry of Development at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure. By adopting the regulations proposed by the law designers in the Government Departments Act, I also support the proposed amendments to the other laws resulting from these changes. On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarni Circle, I ask for further proceedings of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u400	Thank you very much, Member. Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Revitalization is now becoming one of the basic tools for implementing urban policy in Poland, mainly due to the large EU funds in 2014 and 2020. We have not yet had such a large tranche of EU funds for this purpose. And now, all of a sudden, in art. 57 We take away the possibility for local governments to decide on priorities for regeneration in municipalities, we take away this possibility of decision making and we give it to the minister. I wanted to ask the Minister a question: do you consider it appropriate to deprive local governments of the possibility of decision-making in an important matter such as revitalization, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what has been defined in municipal revitalization programs so far, and the municipalities have handled it well? Is this the next step, the next case concerning the ownership of local governments, their decisions and money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u402	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is surprising that this project is parliamentary, that it is so late, because the changes in the cannons have been introduced long ago. However, it should be noted that in this rather obvious and boring project, in which the name of one ministry is replaced by another, there have been situations where you can see that the rapporteurs have decided to tinker a little bit. This tampering is not going to work out for the good of both the land planning and development law and the revitalisation law. The first point concerns the deletion of Article. 47a in the Spatial Planning and Development Act. I would like to stress that spatial governance is a measure of the country's sustainable development. Do not put out a white flag on behalf of the Minister responsible for regional development. Let him face this difficult question about quantification of the term and the problem. It is really worth it, because without spatial governance there will be a multifunctional development of all areas. The second point is about revitalization. This is a bottom-up process, not a top-down process. Please don't put ministerial tentacles in there, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause it's like getting in between the vodka and the snack, and it's gonna be like a joke that one of them cut twice, and it was too short. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u404	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stanisław Huskowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, Minister! I wanted to ask, first draw attention, and then ask about the matters settled in the article. 60 of this new bill. He says that the members of the civil service corps employed so far in GUGiK, who carry out tasks in the field of geodesia and cartography, which remain in the capacity of the Minister responsible for construction, become members of the civil service corps in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. This is such a clear copy-paste from the article. 59 (1) (a) 1 and 2. It is about transferring workers from the Ministry of Development, as I recall, to the Ministry responsible for construction and from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Construction. Only that GUGiK, the Central Office of Geodesy and Cartography, is not a ministry, therefore it is unknown, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which employees are concerned because no employees carry out the tasks referred to there, or the entire GUGiK performs these tasks, so... On the other hand, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it is mentioned that 10 workers pass. My question is, what kind of employees are going to go through if there's going to be 10 of them? What de facto tasks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u406	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u407	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand the idea of law-makers to establish uniform criteria for public spending on revitalization. I also understand the need for the Ministry of Development to control this system because of the origin of most of the European funds. I would like to ask you: Do the analyses carried out so far point in some way to the wrong or ineffective direction of financial resources by the municipalities in this area? Thank you. [[Bravo...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u408	Thank you very much, Member. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Mr Tomasz Żuchowski will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u409	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, as indicated by all the States here speaking, the purpose of the law has been properly defined. It is a law, as one of the Members pointed out, that cleans up the competences between the resorts and gives legitimacy to the full operation, as well as to the issuing of regulations, of acts which are in competence and which are not transferred by the departmental law in these special laws. On the other hand, of course, when it comes to the questions that have been raised, the most emotional issue at this point is the indication of competence for the Minister of Development, who could, within the scope of his competence, give guidance on the use of public resources for revitalisation. I am aware that this is a very sensitive subject due to the fact that some kind of autonomy of local authorities in relation to the actions taken in their area. And just as I had the opportunity to speak at the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, during the meeting of this committee, which was leaning on this draft law, at this moment, today, the need for these changes, which is indicated by the Minister of Development, is that in his view it is optional and not mandatory, and indicates some kind of competence to react when, at this moment, external, competition, regional or local indications would point to inadequate revitalisation resources, because, of course, the issue is about the effectiveness of spending these funds and some kind of measurement across the country. This was the aim of such changes in the proposal, as I said, of optional measures. In this context, of course, there was a case here relating to the transfer of persons from the office of geodesia and cartography, which is currently supervised by the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Here is the issue: until now, the Central Office of Geodesy and Cartography, represented by the main surveyor of the country, has written all the legal acts, draft laws, regulations - such competence he had, of course, on the basis of the assignment by the Minister of Control, the Minister of Digitization. It is in our view that it is wrong to act, inefficient, because it is difficult to write rules for yourself and then apply them. Therefore, because of this, not different matter and at the same time the set of obligations that lie in this sphere and, as we know, the whole package of comprehensive regulations that concern the aspects of geodesy and cartography - for which we have also made a special dedicated meeting with all parties in the Ministry, because it turns out that this matter is very sensitive, at the same time very grouped, there is a great need for change - it seems appropriate that the body which is at this moment the legislator has people who will actually create this legislation, but not in the Ministry. However, the main office will, of course, cooperate, cooperate, opinion, but will apply these rules. Therefore, the measure is, of course, that those who have been involved in this legislation, both draft laws and draft regulations or resolutions that concern this area, will go to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction and that is where they will co-create this system. Moreover, this system will not at this point only be a kind of closed system, for the purposes of a specific institution. As it turns out, for many reasons it is appropriate to destroy these sectoral barriers, these institutional barriers - just as we have the Construction Law or the investment process, they are very coherent and compatible - while in a situation where we do not look at this comprehensively, it is difficult for us to create this system properly. Hence such changes, not other changes. Moreover, changes are within the organizational structure of a specific minister, who supervises, among others. The Central Office of Geodesy and Cartography and is responsible for the matters of geodesia and cartography which function in this area. Here our aim is to consolidate actions - but not to share - and to give a proper legislative and legal system, i.e. to write rules in the department that deals with these rules, and, moreover, it is called for to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u410	Thank you very much, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Stanisław Huskowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I understand right now, but it's not in the article. 60. He has exactly the same record as Art. 59 (1) (a) 1 and 2. Of course, not at this stage anymore, because it cannot be done in the Seym, but maybe in the Senate it is worth rewording this article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Then it'll be clear and obvious, because that's not how it's known whether everyone has to go through, whether nobody has to go through, etc. In fact, it is very difficult to implement this law because it is so imprecise. So I'd advise the Senate to make a slight amendment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u412	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u413	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed bill aims to organise and systematise the current legislative arrangements for existing legislation. The nature of the changes envisaged in the project is strictly technical and organisational and their adoption will allow the transfer of competences to the relevant ministerial bodies due to their substantive competence. This is mostly the case with the Minister of Construction and Housing. Changes worthy of particular attention and positive evaluation are, above all, changes in matters of regeneration, the Technical Supervision Authority and the programming and implementation of regional policy in the heading: Regional development. The question needed to clarify is the issue of relocation and the creation of new posts, as well as the cost of remuneration, which were foreseen in the amount of around 640 000. zł. Taking advantage of the opportunity, it is worth carrying out an audit on the appropriateness of the transfer of existing posts and the establishment of new posts, as well as the level of remuneration in these posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u414	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (prints Nos 670 and 675). I ask Mrs Dorota Arcisewska-Mielewczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The Commission discussed this project on 4 and 5 July. The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, after its first reading, asks the Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report which relates to the above mentioned. The project. The proposed changes are primarily aimed at regulating and clarifying issues related to the EU's dedicated fisheries sector fund, which in the 2014-2020 financial perspective is the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, implemented through the Operational Programme.Fishing and sea. As a result of the proposed changes, the administrative structures will be able to spend their funds efficiently under the operational programme "Fishing and the Sea." Thus, through the designation of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture as an intermediary for priority 6: Supporting the implementation of an integrated maritime policy... In addition, a legal basis will be established for the Agency to carry out certain tasks of the managing authority under priority 4: Enhancing employment and territorial cohesion, which includes the following actions, i.e. preparation of procedures. In addition, the amendment to the Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2 of the Act will allow the Agency to restructure and modernise agriculture to apply for funding to carry out its assigned tasks by means of technical assistance from the operational programme. In relation to the current legal situation, the proposed amendments to the Article. Paragraph 24 The legislation will also provide for an alternative approach to the fulfilment of the statutory delegation in the drafting of the various regulations and the extension of the delegation so that the regulations cover also the catalogue of beneficiaries and the modalities, conditions, deadline and detailed requirements to be met by the grant agreement on the basis of which the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund funds will be allocated. In turn, the addition of lips. 3a in Article 24 will enable the tasks of the European Union to be carried out in accordance with Article. 39, Art. 47 and Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iii) and (iii) and (iii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) (iii) and (iv) (iv) and (iv) and (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) and (iv) and (iv) (iv) and (iv) 49 Regulations No 508/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulations No 2328/2003, No 861/2006, No 1198/2006 and No 791/2007 and Regulation No 1255/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Member State is required to indicate operators with experience or competence in implementing, approving or advising the implementation of operations financed under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In order to deliberately spend funds, it is necessary to clarify the question of the list of beneficiaries who may benefit from the envisaged forms of support. Depending on the nature and scope of the operations carried out, these entities will be identified from among, first, universities, research institutes referred to in the Law of 30 April 2010 on research institutes, scientific institutes referred to in the Act of 30 April 2010 on the Polish Academy of Sciences, or foundations having the necessary competence to carry out operations or approve the results of operations, or, second, legal persons and natural persons, as well as entities providing legal and economic advice, having the necessary competence in the field of advisory services. Change in the addition of the paragraph. Article 4a 32 is intended to indicate the procedure for the recovery of aid unduly recovered or incorrectly used, and by changing the wording of the Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 The fixing of the amounts of aid unduly or in excess will be carried out under the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009. These proposals can be seen as major changes having a significant impact on the mobilisation of funds under the Operational Programme (Fishing and Sea) while the remaining proposed changes are of a more technical nature and result from the need to organise the implementation of the Operational Programme (Fishing and Sea) within the financial perspective of 2014-2020. In the committee, following the comments of the Legislative Bureau, we have made a number of changes to the Office's comments, and I am therefore also presenting to you the comments already contained in the report, in the various articles. On behalf of the applicants, I ask you to treat this project with kindness and kindness, because I am also one of the applicants, but as rapporteur I would like to point out that the committee today adopted the text of the new law with amendments proposed by the Legislative Office. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u416	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak. I would like to invite you again, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u417	Yes. I'm gonna get lost in these pages... Your marshal will let me clean myself up. [[I told you, you have to learn without these cards.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u418	It can be shorter now, faster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u419	Thank you, Marshal. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to take the floor on the draft law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The proposed changes are primarily aimed at regulating and clarifying issues related to the EU's dedicated fisheries sector fund, which in the 2014-2020 financial perspective is the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, implemented through the Operational Programme (Fishing and Sea). Firstly, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture is designated as an intermediate body for priority VI and technical assistance, it receives a delegation to carry out certain tasks of the managing authority under priority IV, i.e. preparation of procedures for carrying out checks. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture will be able to benefit from the technical assistance of the programme. The regulations will also receive a statutory delegation to cover the directories of beneficiaries and the modalities, conditions, deadlines and detailed requirements to be met by the grant agreement on the basis of which the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund will be allocated. A further amendment will allow for the implementation of tasks under European Union legislation which specify that a Member State is required to identify entities with experience or competence in the implementation, approval or advice of the implementation of financial operations under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In order to spend funds intentionally, it is necessary to clarify the question of the list of beneficiaries who may benefit from the proposed forms of support, as the committee has done. As a result of the amendment of the Act, the procedure for seeking recovery of aid unduly or incorrectly used has been identified. However, I also wanted to propose amendments to the proposal, although today we agreed on the shape of this law, after consultation I decided to propose amendments in some points, to return to some proposals that we thought might be modified. And now I'm going to present my amendments. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 in paragraph 2. 1 the entry into the calculation is replaced by the following: 1. the tasks of the managing authority with regard to the implementation of the operations or technical assistance covered by the operational programme shall be carried out as an intermediate body referred to in Article 126. 6 of the Regulation 1303/2013; 2. the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, hereinafter referred to as the Agency, as regards the priorities referred to in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 points 1.3 and 5.6, and technical assistance. In implementing the Operational Programme, the Fisheries and the Sea, the Managing Authority shall be responsible for the implementation of the actions and the technical assistance covered by that programme. In order to implement the programme effectively, the managing authority may entrust its tasks to individual intermediate bodies. Therefore, the proposed amendment to the wording of the introduction into the calculation in Article. 6 in paragraph 2. 1 provides for an alternative to the scope of the tasks entrusted to the managing authority. In accordance with the proposed amendment, the managing authority will be able to entrust the intermediate body with the implementation of the actions or technical assistance covered by the operational programme. Point 1 aims to clarify, unambiguously indicate the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture as an intermediate body competent for the implementation of technical assistance covered by the operational programme, which is linked to the extension of the competence of the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture to carry out technical assistance tasks. In addition, the above amendment restores the wording of point 1 in Article. 6 in paragraph 2. 1 originally proposed in the parliamentary project, as I mentioned. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) is replaced by the following: energy efficiency and mitigation of the effects of climate change, investments on fishing vessels referred to in Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a Regulation 508/2014, and energy efficiency and mitigation of the effects of climate change, the replacement or modernisation of the main or additional engines referred to in Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd Regulation 508/2014. Also in the article. 3 (1) (a) I'm proposing a change. These changes aim to introduce measures under the priority "Promoting sustainable, resource-efficient, innovative, competitive and knowledge-based fisheries' contained in the Operational Programme "Fishing and the Sea'. I will not quote the whole justification here, because I do not have that much time, but I will say that the proposed changes, the wording of the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) [[♪ The bell ♪]] and the addition in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) p is the result of a change in the wording of Article. 3 lit. n, the wording of the provisions corresponds to the current wording of the Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u420	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u421	And these amendments I'd like to make to you. Here are my notes together, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u422	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u423	Of course, I invite you to the committee meeting as its president.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u424	I'm sorry, but this isn't signed by the club bosses or the person authorized to sign it. By the end of your work on this point, you have time. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: I have to go to the head office of the club.]] I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u425	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present our position on the Parliamentary draft law amending the law on promoting the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In general, the draft law is a regular and precise implementation process in our country of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund for the period 2014-2020. In our view, it is appropriate to agree that some of the changes proposed in this proposal will speed up the mobilisation of selected actions under priority 1 and 2 concerning maritime fisheries and aquaculture, and this is particularly important due to the current situation of Baltic cod fisheries. However, there is also doubt as to why, despite the choice of local action groups in May this year, no regulations have been issued for the next priority, priority 4, for local action groups. When analysing the draft law, it is also important to consider whether the transfer of technical assistance support and the priority of an integrated maritime policy to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture is the best idea for those that are possible, but if such a change has been proposed, we believe that government representatives are convinced that this institution will be strengthened by human resources in order to be able to carry out these activities. At the same time, we hope that the potential of this entity, which has so far dealt with these activities, will not be wasted, that it will eventually be used in the implementation of these assumptions by the new entity. During the examination of this draft law there are also other question marks, inter alia concerning the amendment of the article. 30. This Article is now replaced by the following: The Controlled Entity shall provide the Controller with the conditions and means necessary to carry out the checks efficiently, in particular: 1) free entry and movement on the premises of the controlled entity, 2. where possible, the self-closed room, if necessary for the carrying out of the checks; 3. a separate place to store documents and secure items, 4) personal protective equipment. These provisions, which I mentioned, provide more privileges for the controlling entity than the 2004 Freedom of Business Act generally defines. This is also the question of whether they will not be burdened with the costs of carrying out this activity, e.g. the purchase of protective clothing for controlling persons. However, given what I said at the outset, that the provisions introduced make it possible to clarify, improve and improve the implementation of this programme, the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund for the period 2014-2020, we will be willing to comply with this draft law. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u427	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15 believes that changes in the proposed shape are needed, will benefit from the principles of granting and repaying financial assistance under the specific priorities of the Operational Programme and will improve this. The Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector aims to ensure the smooth functioning of the bodies responsible for the preparation, monitoring, evaluation, promotion, control and audit of the operational programme and the management and networking of that programme, as well as of the institutions involved in the enforcement of the common fisheries policy, and to establish an effective system of information on and promotion of the operational programme. Therefore, any action that will improve their functioning and help the fishing sector is approved by us. The identification of the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture as an intermediate body for priority VI and technical assistance to carry out certain tasks of the managing authority under priority IV, namely the preparation of procedures and the carrying out of checks, shall be positively assessed by the fishermen themselves. Our discussions with fishermen and organisations related to this industry indicate that the industry agreed with the provisions of this Act. These consultations took place and they were very fruitful. The Agency shall have the task of providing assistance to operators in the fishing sector and it is therefore appropriate to extend its competence in this respect. Further amendments made to this law - i.e. Regulation of the grounds for refusal of aid where the limit of the appropriations set in a given call is exhausted or the limits of the financial resources granted under the technical assistance for individual beneficiaries are set to improve the allocation of the funds and will result in them being made available to those who most need them. On the other hand, the amendments proposed in the Article. 24 will make Polish regulations more adapted to European requirements. In conclusion, Kukiz15 supports the proposed act. The records are mainly of a regular nature and have a positive impact on the application of grants by Polish operators in the fishing sector, and this in turn will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of our fishermen. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u428	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u429	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a statement on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern about the draft law amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The Modern Posel Club fully supports the changes proposed in the project. This draft de facto merely clarifies and amends the wrong wording and legislative errors of the Act of 10 July 2015. It was written for the previous government. From the very beginning, both the team that formed it and the parliamentarians of the previous term were fully aware of the numerous substantive errors that are currently being repaired by the parliamentary project. The Act was written by the Department of Fisheries in the Ministry of Agriculture, and the current amendments were already made in the same department, only in the newly created Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. In both cases, both the Act and the current amendments were dealt with by a team of persons chaired by the same persons transferred in the framework of the reorganisation. These amendments should have been introduced a long time ago. The question arises as to why this happened, that neither the previous government nor the present government was in a hurry to bring them into the bill. The absence of these amendments has led to a serious delay in the implementation of the operational programme for the years 2014 and 2020 and has already been for up to 9 months. This delay is so incomprehensible that it is known that the aid resulting from this aid scheme in the Union Regulation expires at the end of 2017. Even assuming that the legislative changes in law can be implemented quite quickly, it is necessary for this law to come into force in practice, after all, that it needs an implementing regulation and a procedure, which will take months to come, and knowing the Polish reality, even years. The most affected are fishermen who cannot benefit from the aid scheme. Unfortunately, there are a lot of chances that they will not benefit at all, because Poland will not be able to use these funds by the deadline. There is therefore a serious risk that e.g. Shipowners will not be able to physically scrap their ships. The absence of this aid with simultaneous reductions in fishing quotas and decreasing catches can contribute in general to the wave of bankruptcy. In summary, rather than helping ship owners, the government will contribute to their serious problems. In view of the above, I would like to stress that the state-of-the-art is in favour of completing the legislative work on this project as soon as possible and implementing it so that the shipowners in the fisheries sector will be able to benefit from the assistance they have dedicated to them and that Poland will not be forced to return all this assistance back to the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u430	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present information about the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club about the draft law amending the Act on promoting the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. This information will be positive information, because this project will regulate a very important issue as regards the development of sea fishing in Poland. Moreover, in the previous coalition agreement it was subject to the agricultural department, but also the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture played a significant role in this. As the rapporteur said in her presentation of this proposal, the European Commission has either indicated or asked Poland, or has made such recommendations to identify the institution, body, agency, which will carry out the new distribution efficiently in the new financial perspective of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, as there is a lot of resources and it is important to spend them efficiently. I am pleased that the government has decided that it is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture that meets the European Commission's expectations as an institution that has a great deal of experience in implementing aid programmes and will carry out these activities efficiently in a further stage. Let us hope that only the personal changes that have taken place and are taking place in the restructuring agency will not undermine its effectiveness in the previous hand. Incidentally, when discussing this law, it is worth noting one more thing - it was also part of today's discussion - that this department had previously been dealt with by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Department in this Ministry, and today it is dealing with a separate Ministry of Maritime Affairs. I wanted to make it clear that they are the same people personally, so the question arises: Wasn't the creation of this new resort an artificial situation, again dictated by personal needs? I hope it wasn't, and it isn't. I also hope that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - has been very successful in implementing EU projects so far, with a lot of experience - will also effectively carry out new tasks. The PSL Club will support this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u432	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law on promoting the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The law in force shall specify the tasks and characteristics of the bodies and bodies involved in promoting the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund funds under the operational programme set out in the regulations of the European Union and the conditions and modalities for granting the payment and reimbursement of financial assistance for the implementation of the activities covered by the priorities contained in the operational programme and the tasks set out in the Regulations on an indefinite basis in the relevant provisions of the European Union and provided for in those provisions to be determined by the Member State of the European Union. The draft law was defined by the President of the Council of Ministers as intended to implement the law of the European Union. The proposed amendment to the Act contains regulations the matter of which falls within the competence of the Member State specified in the abovementioned Regulations. The proposed provisions shall specify, inter alia, the content of the statutory delegation on the basis of which the fisheries minister shall identify the relevant authorities or bodies providing legal or economic advice on the promotion of sustainable, resource-efficient, innovative, competitive and knowledge-based aquaculture. The amendments made comply with the provisions of the European Union Regulation which assume that that Member State is required to identify entities with experience or competence in the implementation, approval or advice of the implementation of financial operations under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. In order to deliberately spend funds, it is necessary to clarify the question of the list of beneficiaries who may benefit from the envisaged forms of support. Part of the changes to the provisions of the Act are of a sequencing nature. This regulation will not have any financial implications for the state budget and is compatible with European Union law and the project itself has positive social, economic and legal effects. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u434	Thank you very much, Member. Members have come forward to ask the question. Anybody else want to ask you a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u435	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question concerning the transfer of competences for implementing technical assistance activities to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. Will this agency therefore increase the number of posts? Is she going to rise? In that case, will special appropriations be provided or the budget for the implementation of these actions will be increased? If so, how high? How many new people will be employed? Next question: Will the persons who have been the staff of the entity who has been involved in this process also be involved in this process and be involved in some way, or will they be transferred to the new entity that will be involved in this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u436	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the 4. the following paragraph shall be added. 4a as follows: The controlled entity shall ensure that the conditions and means necessary for the smooth conduct of the checks are met, in particular by ensuring that the... And here in lithium. ♪ is recorded: personal protective equipment. It obviously shifts more costs to a controlling one, increases the powers of the person who controls. I'd like to ask you about this regulation. What are the measures, what kind of measures, because this may in future result in some form of abuse and increase the cost of controlling labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u438	Thank you very much, sir. There is no representative of the Ministry... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: He is, he is.]] ...authorised to answer questions. The Minister had to leave on business. The examination of the report has continued. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: The Director is.]] So if you do, you can be the rapporteur of the committee. If not, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government bill on retail tax (prints Nos 615 and 691). I ask Mrs Maria Zuba to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the draft law on retail tax. The key objective of the regulation is to align or, for example, approximate the conditions of operation on the economic market of large commercial networks and small family shops. During the work on the Law, it turned out that these actions were extremely difficult, but in the end, the committee has developed solutions that allow the objective to be achieved. Existing disparities on the commercial market so far, among others. in taxes, they have caused large trading networks to grow at a galloping pace in recent years, and small family shops have disappeared from the market. The report was presented to you in print No 691. The legal solutions adopted in the draft introduce an additional tax in the tax system in force. The revenue generated from this tax in part will be directed by the government towards the implementation of the current one from 1 April this year. 500+ program, program supporting Polish families in raising children. The remaining part of the funding will be allocated to the state budget. The provisions adopted have been widely consulted and consulted. The Parliamentary Team to Support Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism is a major part of the consultation process of adopted solutions. Every business community interested in this project was heard and invited by the team to work together to develop optimal solutions. In the contested draft law, the government proposed that the new income tax should be charged to retailers whose revenues exceeded the statutory revenue in a month. The proposed project proposes a tax-free amount for retailers, while the surplus obtained above is proposed to be subject to retail tax. The amount of the tax-free amount was estimated by the government at PLN 17 million per month. This amount will be calculated, this revenue will be calculated on a compound basis each month. This gives a tax-free amount of PLN 204 million per year. The solutions adopted have been developed and selected from a number of proposed and analysed solutions. In the first stage of the work, a lower tax-free amount was considered. Even the retail community itself estimated this amount at a lower level than the government finally proposed in this project. The discussion on the tax model also took into account the introduction of a linear tax rate, the analysis of whether to accept several levels of tax progression. The possibility of introducing a higher tax on sales revenue on Saturdays and Sundays and the possibility of adopting a lower tax-free amount with an excess of the linear tax rate was considered. Finally, the retail tax model we have developed today with full responsibility can be seen as the most optimal, while the tax procedure adopted is simple and transparent. Tax progression in this solution is mild, two-step. In the first threshold, which includes the value of revenue obtained above the amount of tax-free, i.e. PLN 17 million but not exceeding PLN 170 million, the taxpayer charges tax at a rate of 0.8% tax bases, while revenues above PLN 170 million will be taxed at 1.4%. Six amendments were received by the committee during the work on the bill, including. applicants proposed a 50% reduction in tax rates This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Three of the six amendments tabled were accepted by the Commission, including an amendment extending the deadline for the implementation of the Law of 1 August 2016 to 1 September 2016. At the original date of application of the Law from 1 August 2016, the government estimated that by the end of 2016 a gross amount of about PLN 630 million would be paid to the state budget, while net revenue was about PLN 510 million. In view of the delay in the implementation of this law by 1 month, it is expected that these revenues will be lower this year. The government estimates that next year, in 2017, in which the law will be in force throughout the year, the revenue from this will amount to PLN 1.9 billion in the budget and this is gross respect. The committee bureau also received a request for a public hearing. The Commission voted against this proposal. I would like to thank Members working on the Act in the Committee on Public Finance, and I would like to thank Members working on the resolution of the Act in the Parliamentary Group for the Support of Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I ask the High House to adopt the Retail Tax Act. It is a good bill and expected on the market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u440	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law aims to use two basic tax functions, i.e. a revenue-producing function for the State budget and a redistribution function. And these two functions are well-known and applied in the world, also in the countries of the European Union, and it is therefore difficult to expect that the European Commission may raise any objections for this reason. We aim to shift revenue, redistribution of revenue from retail sales entities, which so far had very favourable conditions for development, and to relieve those Polish companies who were struggling and often They just fell into bankruptcy. This law has triggered many long-standing discussions, until the last minute, including today in the committee. But the position of representatives of the Polish Trade Network Leviatan is very comforting. The Leviathan commercial network should not be confused with Leviathan, which represents large companies and employers, large companies. The representative of this Polish trading network, which brings together about 3 thousand. Stores, employs about 25 thousand. people, i.e. includes small and medium-sized enterprises, clearly stated that this law changes the situation, gives a better chance for the existence and development of Polish small and medium-sized entities in trade and this group of entities, Polish entities, is satisfied with it. It has been stressed that these rules are in line with EU rules, as small and medium-sized companies are also supported differently in European Union countries. And that's what we're really happy about, because within this atmosphere presented by the opposition, the black scenario about this law, and not just this one, there's the voice of the stakeholders themselves, which we were talking about in this project, who are sympathetic, friendly to this project. We're very happy about that. Today, during the committee work, amendments have been adopted that improve this law, simply facilitate the interpretation of many rules. Among other things, the concept of economic activity has been clarified, and the vocabulary, which is in the law, has been detailed. Since it is interpreted differently in various laws, in the Tax Order otherwise, in the Freedom of Activity Act otherwise, it is proposed here to be based on the concept of economic activity according to the Tax Act on Goods and Services. In addition, and in other respects, we refer to the Goods and Services Tax Act, i.e. it is as if this law is based on the Goods and Services Tax Act, it will facilitate interpretation, while at the same time sealing the entire tax system. The concept of retail sales has also been clarified. There was a controversial issue as to whether retail sales meant selling goods if they were accompanied by the provision of services. Since this could be interpreted differently, we added that this is a case where these services are separately unregistered, i.e. if they are separately recorded, no retail tax shall be levied on them. We have a clear distinction here. There was also another amendment, not to mention the one which extends the date of entry into force of the Act for a month, which in the place where the Act refers to what goods are excluded from the act, i.e. will not be subject to tax... There was a speech there, among others. on the disposal of goods in the context of the provision of catering services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the sake of consistency, this point has been deleted so that there are no different interpretations of these provisions. We therefore believe that despite the controversy, the project will play a good role. Of course, it is an innovative law and it will probably require an amendment during its application, but this needs to be verified, observed. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u442	Thank you very much, Member. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There is no Member. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski from the Kukiz club15. There isn't any either. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Oh, there you are. I'm sorry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u443	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting the position of the club on the Retail Tax Act on behalf of the Kukiz club15. Unfortunately, the bill's lame. Why? Because it is fundamentally unfair because it introduces inequality towards entities that are organised differently legally, i.e. if we are dealing with the Polish industry, which is quite well held in trade, i.e. the RTV and household sector, where the majority of Polish entities are, this law will touch Polish economic operators, because they operate on one NIP. They're so organized, they're gonna accumulate their big profits and they're gonna be taxed anyway. Their competitors from the western border operate in the form of a capital group, which as a limited partnership has many of these entities with different NIPs and their revenues do not add up. And so we already have inequality in competition not by any commercial skills, but in the form of a tax arrangement. This is unhealthy competition. That's the first thing, which is why this bill is lame. After today's meeting of the team, I expected an amendment to this project, which will cause Western companies organised in this way, in the form of these limited companies, to have added up these revenues and thus will, let's say, be on the competition field of the RTV and household trade competition rather than tax competition. That's what we really wanted this equality to be introduced, because it's really this project that... You know, a year ago you wanted to get money from non-tax foreign companies, but the effect of this bill will be that it will shoot at Polish companies. As far as the whole concept of income tax is concerned, as Kukiz,15 we are absolutely in favour. Low income tax is great, but withdraw PIT and CIT, which is something for something. I bet the financial impact on the budget will be much better if we introduce a simple, really common and low income tax for all those who are PIT and CIT payers in relation to their business. Resignation from the two previous taxes that I mentioned will cause these small and medium-sized ones to breathe away, because thus you will simplify their accounts. They will be generated completely different, which is much lower, accounting costs and will be collection. It is proven that the simpler the tax, the simpler the construction, the more tax collection is much better. In this way, this bill - I know that you had very good intentions - will turn not against those to whom we wanted them to be fairly burdened with the Polish tax system, but will turn against Polish companies which were not, let's say, in the tax sense clever, have not reorganized themselves, do not have many subsidiaries with different NIPs, but operate on one NIP. So that in the form of this law that you are proposing, Kukiz15 will certainly not support. We're going to vote against her party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u444	Thank you very much. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Continuing to work on the retail tax, the Modern Club continues to take the view that the date of adoption of this law will be the black day of Polish trade. That's what we've been talking about. [[Uh...]] The main purpose of the bill is to find money for the promises of the Law and Justice electoral. The government simply continues to translate money from the right to the left pocket of Poles, pretending to give them something, and actually burden them with further taxes. Tax will be paid by Poles and there is no doubt here. Customers, suppliers and subcontractors will suffer. They are Polish companies, often food producers, security companies, cleaning companies, which still work on very low margins. The whole industry will have to either raise prices or cut costs because, according to the GUS data, the average net profitability in the industry today is 1.8%. The tax will be particularly severe for the poorest citizens, because they are primarily shopping at food discounts, which will pay the highest tax rates. The tax will not protect small neighborhood shops and Members of the Law and Justice know that. It's still gonna be more expensive than in the markets and customers won't change their habits. What's more, suppliers who lose their contracts with large networks will be bouncing their losses at the expense of small wholesalers and shops so as to ultimately earn the same. There are much easier ways to support small and medium-sized business. However, the worst thing is that the Act in its current form will make some large international networks pay not a penny, and the average Polish networks will be affected by this tax. The best example here is the already mentioned RTV and household appliances industry, where Polish shops with many years of tradition on the market will be subject to tax and international companies will avoid it due to another form of organisation. Many false statements were made during the work on the bill in committee. Minister, for example. We were convinced that the other sector tax, the said banking tax that we have been working on recently, was not passed on to customers and that this tax will probably not be passed on, while we know very well that the analysis shows that 15 out of the 20 largest banks in Poland increased their prices even before paying the first bank tax charge. The Minister argued to us that the tax is irrelevant to the industry, but the average profitability in the industry, as I said, is less than 2%, and we are talking about a 0.8% rate. And 1.4%. The Modern Club has tabled its amendments in the course of its work, which would mitigate the negative effects of the new tribute. We want the tax to enter into force on 1 January 2017. The subsequent entry into force of this tax will give business time to prepare for these additional costs, and the government will have time to finally construct the formula of this tax with the European Commission. None of the Ministry has spoken, although we have repeatedly asked what plan B is, if the European Commission questions progress, whether we will talk about the lower amount of free money, the rate of tax and how it will spread in Polish trade. In the meantime, we know that the Commission has already asked the Polish government twice to clarify progress. Unfortunately, the government does not learn from previous experiences e.g. Hungary, which as a result of the European Commission's observations on progress had to withdraw. We want lower rates because these are too high, as I said, in relation to the margins obtained in the industry, and there will be additional huge administrative costs, because someone will have to state in the end which part of the turnover is actually retail and which part is not. This also took quite a bit of discussion during the committee's work. We also want the new tax not to include catering goods and services, in line with previous findings and justification for the bill. This industry was not to be covered by this tribute. It is also criminal, as I said in my first reading, that the government spends tax money faster than it earns, exposing the state's money to a larger deficit than originally planned, and in the state budget for the current year it is assumed that this tax [[♪ The bell ♪]] PLN 2 billion will be affected, today it will be, we already know, not even a quarter of this amount. Of course, as a result of everything I have said, the Modern Posel Club will not support the bill in this form and we will vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Without mercy, we will survive.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u446	Thank you very much. Ms Genowef Tokarska will now speak from the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government bill on retail sales. It is a new tribute, a new form of tax that has not yet been present in the Polish tax system. Let me start by reminding you of the most important assumptions of this new tax regulation. Thus, monthly revenues from retail sales, i.e. sales to consumers, will be the subject of taxation. The project sets a tax-free amount of PLN 17 million per month. Taxpayers will, of course, be retailers selling goods, and the tax will be included, which is glorious, in the cost of income tax revenue. Online sales, as well as retail sales of many goods - energy carriers, coal, some derivatives, natural gas, diesel fuels used for heating purposes, as well as water, heat, medicines, special purpose foodstuffs, are excluded from the tax, so there are many of these elements, and goods disposed of as part of the provision of services, as we have written down, separately unregistered. Retail tax is a progressive tax. There are two rates and two tax thresholds. The first is tax. 0.8% on income surplus between PLN 17 and 170 million per month and a second threshold of 1.4% on income surplus exceeding PLN 170 million per month. In fact, it is the progress of the bill that raises the most doubts. Is the law in general compatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and European Union law? In fact, these comments dominated the discussion during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, were also reported by the institutions involved in the consultation process, but also doubts were raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This diversity of taxpayers and tax rates, unequal treatment of taxpayers, unequal treatment of economic operators unfortunately was not agreed with European Union legislation, the draft law was not notified and due to the time-consuming nature of this process has not even been notified. During the committee's work, a proposal for a definition of economic activity was supplemented by a definition of the VAT Act and the definition of the goods accompanied by the provision of services which are separately unregistered was clarified. At the same time, the provision on goods disposed of in the context of the provision of catering services has been waived - point 6 of Article is deleted here. 7 projects. The vacathio legis was also extended by a month, i.e. by 1 September 2016, but also I would like to say that there are no governmental regulations for implementing this project, the model tax return, and so there is still much to be done by the government. The Committee on Public Finance did not agree with the public hearing requested by the project, and the representative of the social side, the Social Dialogue Council, informed the committee of a negative opinion on the project and that the government had not kept the deadline for the Social Dialogue Council to submit the opinion before. The Polish People's Party Club will not support a procedated retail tax project, mainly because the project does not give any, even the slightest guarantee, that the tax costs will be borne by large commercial networks, and this was the original purpose of establishing this tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. We are convinced that the costs of this tax will be passed on to consumers themselves, as well as to suppliers of goods and subcontractors, as did bank customers in the case of banking tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u448	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the committee on the Government's draft retail tax bill. The bill introduces a new public tribute to the Polish tax system - retail tax. The main objective of this project is to increase the tax revenue of the State budget to finance the expenditure resulting from the implementation of the State aid scheme for the raising of children - the 500+ family - as one of its sources of funding. The project sets out the formal and material elements of the construction of the tax, and the tax introduced will be a tax on revenue directly charged to revenue from the sale of goods for consideration. The tax base will be the surplus of retail revenues over PLN 17 million in a given month and will relate to revenue generated from now until the end of the month, which means that income to be achieved by the taxpayer up to a total amount of PLN 17 million will not be taxed. Consequently, the tax-free amount will amount to PLN 17 million per month, PLN 204 million per year. This tax will help to increase the revenue of the state budget, will directly fund the implementation of the State aid scheme for raising children From this point of view, the social impact needs to be assessed positively. The applicant also assumes that the introduction of the tax will not result in an increase in prices and that a large competition between trading networks and possible strengthening of competition will not allow the cost of the tribute to be passed on to the consumer. The proposed law in its original assumption was intended to protect domestic Polish trade and, above all, small local shops, which are often a place of work, as well as the only source of livelihood for many Polish families. We have heard many criticisms from liberal circles, but this is rather due to the defence of the interests of international corporations, not to concern for our domestic trade. Let me say that these zealous corporate defenders delight in the charming family restaurants, shops and guesthouses in Italy, Spain or France, and they don't mention the shopping centers there. I hope that this law will contribute to maintaining existing, creating new, native, charming places that we recall from our visits to other European countries. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u450	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much, Marshal, for allowing me to speak. A representative of the Kukiz club15 spoke of the good intentions of the authors of this law. The problem, Mr President, is that, as a good old Polish proverb says, hell is paved with good intentions. Today's meeting of the finance committee has proved very clearly that, contrary to what the finance minister said, the world is not waiting for this tax, Minister, because this is not the tax you promised the Poles. [[Poland is waiting.]] You do not want to support small Polish shops - it sounded very clear during today's committee meeting, the social side spoke about it - you are simply desperately looking for money, you are looking so desperately for them that you are introducing extremely short vacathio legis into the tax bill, although this is contrary to the principles of decent legislation. Moreover, the draft law does not even contain implementing acts. But, at the Congress of Law and Justice on Saturday, the finance minister was called a nuisance, threatened with a finger that he wasn't fast enough to seal the tax system, so even though it had nothing to do with sealing the tax system, you thought you'd introduce an extra tax, there would be extra income. [[The bugs don't work well. What's she talking about? It didn't happen.]] You were wondering what else to tax here, and it went to gastronomy. And while you wrote in the explanatory memorandum that catering services would not be taxed, today you have introduced an amendment that says that hot dogs, coffee in a cup, a sandwich that we eat on the way to work will be more expensive because they will be taxed. We'll also pay more for fuel, about 6 gr... [[But you're pouring water.]] ...because you have to take one money to give to others. Unfortunately, that's your tax. What will be the result? That's what my previous speakers talked about. The effect will be that the Court of Justice of the European Union is ordering you to abolish a differentiated rate and perhaps even a free amount. What will you do then? You're probably gonna tax everyone, and that's the higher stakes, because you didn't deny it on the finance committee today, even though I asked him that. And yet, this was also mentioned here today, on the table is the example of Hungary. You have to have a plan B and be honest about it. The only problem is that you need to know what honesty is. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[How can you not be ashamed to say that?]] This bill is a bad bill, and it cannot actually be fixed, and the Civic Platform Club will attempt to do so. We will make three amendments so that entrepreneurs can move even slightly better in the area of these terrible rules, where the terminology of VAT and income tax is confused. We therefore make three amendments: we clarify the determination of revenue, we help the government to realize the promise from the justification that you will not tax catering services, and we want to give at least a dozen days more entrepreneurs to prepare for the application of this law. [[You were eight years old.]] We also understand... But we have not introduced any new taxes, Commissioner. You are introducing them, so we must take care of the Polish entrepreneur... [[Exactly, so don't help us.]] ...a small taxpayer, a small shopkeeper, a supplier and, above all, a Polish consumer, on whom you impose another tax within 8 months of your government career. We understand that there may be a problem with the recent amendment to the longer vacathio legis, because the state has destroyed enough the budget prepared by the Civic Platform that you are afraid that you will simply not close this budget without the less than 500 million. But I suggest you don't worry, you'll find savings somewhere, and the bet for the finance minister will probably be out of date, because in December, Minister Shamacha will probably no longer be in the government. [[A visionary. He knows everything.]] The Civic Platform Club will vote against this bad bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Nothing new.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u452	Thank you very much. The questions have been addressed by the Members. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. She is the first to ask the question of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The tax revenue will directly finance the budget expenditure resulting from the implementation of the State aid scheme in the upbringing of children - Family 500+. The explanatory memorandum states that the project does not concern the functioning of local government units. However, the project points to a negative effect of the law in the form of a reduction in the income of local government units. On a yearly basis, this loss will amount to over PLN 80 million. The Act does not indicate how this loss will be compensated for by local governments. So I have a question: How will the government compensate local governments for losses estimated at PLN 80 million per year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u454	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, today's discussion and report clearly show that the purpose of the tax is not to support our Polish domestic commercial companies - that was the announcement - but it is the search for money. This is very bad, very bad, because if there were other thinking here, this whole effort would be aimed at supporting, helping our Polish small enterprises, for our trade. What a short period of time the reasoning has changed in this regard. I remember the first assumptions that came up, and that discussion. Those were ideal assumptions about this tax. On the other hand, it is good that entrepreneurs protested and that today we have slightly improved these solutions. On the other hand, my question is: To what extent do you foresee that this tax will be passed directly on to consumers, to suppliers - because it is inevitable, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have an example after the bank tax that something like this happened - and to what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u456	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u457	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the applicant, there are different legal forms in Poland to conduct business in the field of retail trade. Both micro-entrepreneurs operating on the local market and large commercial networks with thousands of points of sale across the country operate on the market. The proposed law in its design is intended to promote Polish family trading facilities. Does the government have any knowledge of the amount of trading facilities covered by the tax credit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u458	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u459	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We're dealing with another scandalous tax. No income function, no redistributive function, Madame, but this is simply a rude money-jump. It's a progressive nationalisation of income, because more and more money Law and Justice takes away people, out of those hard-earned money, because you have made unrealistic promises in a normal country. You're not taxing the stores. You're taxing the customers of these stores. Business is not a charity, therefore no one will pay tax for those who buy, no one will reduce their margins, but will transfer them to customers. You're pretending not to, but it won't do any good, because the truth is, if you're pulling a penny out of someone's pocket, he's gonna notice it sooner or later, and he's gonna punish that hand just fine. Hopefully this will happen sooner rather than later. Therefore, I would like to ask the question: Is it true that no other government in Poland's history has introduced as many taxes as it has introduced in the first 8 months or plans to introduce them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government of law and justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u460	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question, Minister: Will the procedated bill finally equalise the chances of small domestic companies in the commercial market... [[No.]] ...in relation to the big hypermarket networks? It's for your governments, I'd like to say, so many small companies have been wiped out. And I have a question: do you know what turnover, what income do small neighborhood shops have? The amount of tax-free income per month is 17 million, i.e. 204 million per year. According to the definition of the Freedom of Business Act They're already big companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u462	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u463	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'm going to repeat the thesis that's been passed here several times. Unfortunately, this law does not support Polish companies. This can be seen most clearly in the example of those companies in the RTV industry that you mentioned. There the Polish network will have much worse operating conditions than its foreign competitors. To be honest, this is also the question I want to put to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance at the moment. Well, at first reading, information from the Ministry of Finance came out that business cases would be investigated, who would try to avoid tax by e.g. division of companies or establishment of entities based on branches. I think this is a very naive position, because in the Commercial Companies Code there is an institution of division of the company and no one can be accused of using it or [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the basis of business rules, it will establish a branch or other structure. So that I don't understand the position of the Ministry of Finance here at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u464	Thank you. The question is asked by Mieczysław Miazga, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very good that, after a long public consultation, the bill on retail tax went to the Sejm. This is to equalise the market opportunities for family shops, which have recently lost a great deal, and there is a chance to halt the decline in the number of small retail outlets. Since the beginning of 2007, approximately 50,000 have been closed. Stores. At that time there was a very large development of stores belonging to foreign companies, there are about 9 thousand, with revenues of more than 110 billion a year, which did not pay taxes corresponding to turnover and profits. We absolutely need to save Polish companies because they are a great value of our economy and are responsible for maintaining hundreds of thousands of families. I have a question: Is the government, in addition to introducing this tax, planning other legal solutions that will lead to the decline in the expansion of foreign capital stores on our market? This is very necessary and we need to reverse these trends, because the availability of these trading facilities is for our small and medium-sized [[♪ The bell ♪]] limited companies, which means that we do not exploit production capacity and thus increase unemployment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u466	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u467	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question: Which of the existing Polish companies will be the most affected by the proposed regulation? Is there a possibility? equal opportunities with companies with foreign capital which, instead of a single NIP, function as companies organized in capital groups? Does the government take into account the situation in Hungary, where similar regulation is already challenged by the European Union? Another issue - the assumptions were revenue approx. 3 billion PLN, as far as I know, is planned to reach 1890 million. In view of all these regulations and attempts to impose further danins, should we not think about changing the name of our country to: Poland Tax Republic simply because there is nothing else we can do at this point? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u468	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Adam Abramowicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The opposition claims that it has a fiscal objective only, that it will increase taxes. Even to my amazement, the Kukiz Member15 says this, and yet the amount released: PLN 17 million per month, PLN 204 million per year, that is the amount that basically releases all small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Applause]] I have a question for the Minister: Is it true that, according to the definition of the European Union, small and medium-sized enterprises are those companies that have a turnover of up to EUR 50 million, which is the result of the 200 million PLN? And is it true that the European Commission is pursuing a strong policy to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as recommended by the 2015-2020 directive to all EU countries? This law is heading precisely in this direction - supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, [[♪ The bell ♪]] because they create the most jobs, they create national income, they form the basis of the economic pyramid. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u470	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u471	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In fact, I would like to ask the Minister not so much as to ask him what he asked. I would like to ask the Minister to refer to the amendment I tabled to the Minister with kindness, not for me, of course, but for catering services. Minister, the amendment I tabled on behalf of the Civic Platform Club concerns meals intended for immediate or direct consumption, and this terminology does not cause confusion because it is in line with the PKWiU and simply applies in Polish legislation. I ask that the Minister carry out only what you have announced and explained in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, and that is all I ask. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u472	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u473	The argument against the law was often raised here that tax would be passed on to prices, i.e. consumers. Minister, is it true that the introduction of a tax-free amount counters this, because at the time of establishing the price of the goods it will not be possible to determine the amount of tax payable for the sale of the goods concerned in connection with the determination of the free price and is there therefore a barrier here at this point? Secondly, is it true that charging a tax to the costs of obtaining a seller's income results in a link between the tax and the seller and not the consumer, thus calling into question the idea that the consumer will be economically burdened? Please tell me whether you agree with this argument. And I'd like to ask you why the Ministry of Finance is skeptical, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to taxation of capital groups. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u474	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I know that when certain thesis is repeated systematically, even if they are false, it starts to really believe in them. And I understand that this training you're doing here on the platform is about to lead to that. [[Come on, come on.]] However, I am following because we know an example of the biggest populist in Britain, who, despite winning the referendum, got so scared and overreacted that... [[He's gone.]] ...he resigned, fled and withdrew from national policy. On the other hand, my question to the Minister is repeated once again by me. There's a lot of chance, but... [[Oh, come on.]] ...that the European Commission will address the introduction of progression. There's a reason Hungary's pulled out of this... [[Wrong level.]] Hungary withdrew from this idea for a reason to make a progressive tax. And once again, I'm asking you what plan B is. Whether we abolish the free amount to get $2 billion next year, whether we raise the stakes and what stakes and what merchants will be charged, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If this progression had to be withdrawn, would it be necessary to do so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u476	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister. [[Mr. Marshal, can I have another correction, please, for 10 seconds?]] No, a corrigendum of what? Were you mentioned? [[There was a reference to me, so two words.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the amounts mentioned here by the Member of Law and Justice, it must be said that small businesses are not companies with a turnover of up to 50 million, only companies with a turnover of up to 10 million euro and medium-sized enterprises of up to 30 million EUR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u478	Thank you very much. Minister Wiesław Janczyk, Minister of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank all of you who have been so concerned about the issue of this Retail Act and have accompanied us at every stage of our work, serving your knowledge, your experience, your knowledge of the subject. Indeed, the debate on this subject lasted for months, we have exhausted it, it is completed, the document is now at second reading and I think that it will soon be finished in Parliament. I have the conviction that we have found a golden measure, because we have taken into account all relevant and objective demands and proposals for definitions that could have been enshrined in this law. And believe me, if someone had provided material which, in a more objective way, in terms of the definition of entities obliged to pay this tax or method, either the rate or the amount of the free amount, described all the commercial and economic reality that we are dealing with, taking into account the beauty of the retail market in Poland, this idea would certainly have been included in the bill. Maybe it is worth recalling that we started with such a discussion, which included an additional burden for sales agents on Sunday, on Saturday, we started with a free amount of PLN 1.7 million... [[The goat rule, Minister.]] ... We were talking about a rate of 1.9, and finally we found a consensus with a free amount of PLN 17 million per month, PLN 204 million per year, at a rate above 170 million per month, at a level of 1.4. It seems that in this way the law has the chance to meet not only the fiscal demand, but the one consisting in complementing part of the revenue of the state budget, say, a small part in relation to even these ambitious spending plans for the 500+ programme cited here, which is the implementation of the equally ambitious demand of the Government of Law and Justice. If we assume, ultimately, that in the full year during which this provision will operate, the law will generate revenue of 1.9 billion, then in relation to 23 billion it does not amount to 10%. So there's no full, actually no automation. But the government carefully combines different income streams and ensures that public finances are balanced, and that is the responsibility of this government. I do not want to compare this time here and now, current and assurances about how wonderful it was for Polish entrepreneurs under the previous coalition, for the previous 8 years. Ladies and gentlemen, only one item, the position of outstanding debts vis-à-vis the state budget shows the dramatic fate of Polish entrepreneurs in recent years, and the amount in this item has increased from 20 to 65 billion. We remember the victims of road construction, stadiums, highways. It was really a lot of entities that trusted the previous power and then had no one specially interested in them, specially taking care of them. We also remember those entities who lost a lot of money on foreign exchange options, and from this stand government representatives provided great help that they could cover... [[You didn't implement the bill, the directive.]] ...but then they didn't lift a single finger to support them, regardless of the fact that the Law and Justice showed a good, accurate path of help for these entities... [[September 1st, Member.]] ...even though it involves exemption from a fee from a court entry, so that these relationships, not partners, but just business entities, institutions and customers, are objective even in a fair trial. I couldn't afford that either. It just wasn't pity. Ladies and gentlemen, what more can be added to this data, which would further convince the public, which, for today, seems quite peaceful to me? It is not that nobody in Poland wants to pay taxes and does not see the point of paying them. There are more and more people who believe that a strong state should take care of its income and are entitled to it. And we want to secure good, fair, sufficient revenue for the state budget in order to pursue policies in many areas, social policy, economic policy, state spending policy in the field of culture, sport, medical services. A well-managed country has the full right to shape its fiscal policy and we have the courage That's what I'm gonna do. There was a question here about how much tax we're introducing. First of all, Law and Justice followed a rule because it promised not to raise tax rates. It's a very serious, responsible declaration, and she's being kept when it comes to these taxes... [[So you're saying it's a tax of 22%?]] Indeed, one tax, a bank tax that has been introduced very efficiently, is already working today, gives additional revenue to the state budget... [[Member, we will go down.]] ...and I hope that this income, although it may be at a lower level than planned... [[It's only seven months.]] ...but they don't burden you the way they were scared. As with this regulation, where it is said that it will significantly affect product prices, prices vis-à-vis suppliers. Ladies and gentlemen, this huge amount of exemption, PLN 17 million per month, makes it possible for about 200 entities to be regulated and 30 000 to be regulated. other entities will not pay due to this tax. This leads to the fact that those for whom it will be important whether the price of the product will change or whether the price offered by the trader to the supplier will be different, will be able to direct their products and direct their steps to make purchases to those who will not be subject to this tax. This is the stimulation element for the market and an attempt to sort of level the playing field. Do not forget this and do not use rhetoric that is already completely expired and inadequate after the six-month debate. This situation has been completely modernised, taking into account all the serious aspects that were to be discussed and saved. The project, which we are dealing with today, at this stage of work has resolved a lot of doubts, almost all records have been clarified, and I hope that all, in such a way that it is as understandable as possible to apply properly also in tax terms. I can also say that these concerns that have been addressed here and during the work of the finance committee, about the net amount or gross amount... Let me put it this way: this net amount given in the impact assessment may be underestimated, because, let's not be fooled, many of these biggest players simply did not pay CIT. When you write a script and a transcript of the parliamentary debate, you forget about it, and with many speeches - I am aware of it and I regret to say that - you are providing fantastic material for analysis in Brussels. You don't have to go there, you're just writing a wonderful transcript here that's gonna be taken away and it's gonna be an excellent argument for us to argue... [[Minister, you don't believe that.]] ...to defend this project, but we're prepared for it. I must inform you that the European Commission has not raised any objections to this law so far and we are convinced that we are able to defend and apply this project and will generate revenue from the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u480	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the committee shall not speak. Thank you very much. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. There were also answers. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that three amendments were tabled to the bill submitted at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act (Prints No 659 and 674). I ask Mr Kubov to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act, print Nos 659 and 674. The project entered the Sejm on May 6. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the draft law to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for first reading on 23 June 2016. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined the draft at its meeting on 5 July. The draft amendment to the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act aims to optimise the use of the funds collected in the reprivatisation account. The draft replaces the solution adopted in Article. 69f Act, which allowed the grant to be granted to m.st. Warsaw, extending the range of potential beneficiaries of payments to all local governments. The proposed amendments to the Act grant the Treasury Minister the opportunity to invest in the funds of the reprivatisation fund. The Minister responsible for Treasury Affairs also obtains in 2016 the possibility of increasing the share capital of the Polish Television, Polish Radio and regional radio companies in the amount not exceeding PLN 30 million. During the process of reviewing the bill and the substantive discussion, Members proposed a number of amendments, which the committee had given a negative opinion. These amendments, as requested by the applicants, were submitted as minority requests. The Commission has given a positive opinion on two self-corrections. One self-correction concerned the addition to the proposed Article. Paragraph 56 1 point (1) (a) c the formulation of a financial contribution to the satisfaction of the former owners of property acquired by the State Treasury, in particular by the issue of the goods. This amendment clarifies the provisions of the Act and extends the number of cases where support for local government grants will be possible. In turn, in the proposed article. 69h is changing automatically from PLN 20 million to PLN 30 million. The Commission asks the High House to adopt the proposed amendments and adopt the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u482	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Privatization. According to the rapporteur of the committee, this law will allow better use of the re-privatisation fund, and possibly what has been the resource of this fund so far, and it was really an untapped resource in the hands of the State Treasury, it will be able to work and multiply this fund, which is actually used to a small extent every year. Well, ladies and gentlemen, during the work on the bill, various types of reservations arose, it was said that we had a special case of Warsaw, where there was a decree of Bieruta, which was taken away from the property, and this was the basis for the fact that the previous coalition paid many million zlotys. Warsaw, forgetting that all over the country we have been dealing with the acquisition of property and other local authorities, in general other individuals have struggled with this problem and have been left to themselves. We believe that citizens throughout the country are the same and should be treated equally, because heirs from Warsaw are no better than citizens who have been deprived of their property in the framework of communist estates living outside Warsaw. This is why there is this proposal that other local authorities should also be able to benefit from this fund for claims. There was also a mention of this amendment, which also gives the opportunity to return things that have been taken over by the State Treasury, but are still in resources. Very often there was no legal basis for even returning pictures or family souvenirs, which are sometimes lost in warehouses somewhere, do not constitute any particular property or special artistic or historical value, but constitute a huge sentimental value for the families of former owners. That is why this amendment is tabled here. Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been allegations that the Reprivatisation Fund was intended to cover claims, and Law and Justice transfers a small amount from this fund to increase the share capital of Polish and Polish Radio Television and regional radio companies. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed the hypocritical defense of the Reprivatization Fund, because those who criticize this solution most today, in the previous terms of the Sejm, when they ruled, gave much more money. In one year, e.g. 300 million per road from this fund was transferred, so the proposed amount of PLN 30 million is a really modest amount when it comes to the use of this fund. We count on it, ladies and gentlemen, that this law will give more opportunities to satisfy claims, will also give the opportunity to use these funds, to multiply them, and at the same time to support the very difficult public media that have been brought to almost bankruptcy. On the other hand, there have also been allegations that we support the public media with some small amount of money in this case, but I will remind you that in 2013 and 2016, the amount of support for public media, radio and television was up to 650 and 750 million a year, so this support is also, you can say, very small, in short, cost-effectively managing funds. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Law and Justice support this project. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club comments on the Parliamentary bill amending the Commercialisation and Privatization Act. In principle, the proposed novel concerns one issue, namely the Reprivatisation Fund. The Reprivatisation Fund is a special-purpose fund which is intended to collect funds intended to cover claims of persons who have been affected by nationalisation processes in the past, i.e. they have been deprived of rights in favour of the State, i.e. claims of persons who expect reprivatisation. The manner in which the fund is created, the management of the funds collected for the fund shall be determined by the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act. This fund - it should be noted - is created from privatisation revenues. As long as Poland does not implement the process of reprivatization, it is necessary to maintain the Reprivatisation Fund with care that the amount of funds collected in this fund should be as high as possible. Recent years have shown that the passage of time and awareness of Poles make spending from this fund more and more from year to year. It is not only about keeping funds for current payments, to cover the current needs of former owners deprived of their rights by the legislation of the People's Poland. As much money as possible is needed to cover current needs resulting from judicial judgments or administrative decisions, but funds to satisfy any owner of the victim since 1944. Only then can this idea of justice be realized. Therefore, it is negative to assess any solution that is aimed at reducing or merely creating a risk of reducing the funds raised for the Reprivatisation Fund, and this law, this novel, creates at least two such dangers. The first is the allocation of up to PLN 30 million to the capital increase in 2016. Polish Television, Polish Radio and regional radio companies. The second risk is related to the law, with the provision of the Minister of the Treasury with the right to purchase from these funds collected on the stock fund public companies. There is no rational justification why the funds raised in the special fund would be spent on the financing of radio and television. I can agree that such a need may sometimes exist, but the State Treasury Minister has at his disposal a number of funds which he can use and which can be used to finance radio and television. They are funds dedicated to this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, similar attention should also be given to the intention to involve funds from the fund in the purchase of shares of public companies. Nor is such a proposal justified. If such a need to continue the nationalisation processes existed, the Minister of the Treasury has the resources, including the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs, to make such spending of funds for the purchase of shares. Projectors also request to extend the range of beneficiaries, entities which may apply for funds collected for the Reprivatisation Fund, other than Warsaw, local self-government units, as well as to remove this deadline limiting the right to apply for these funds by the end of 2016. However, it is necessary to see different legal regimes in which Warsaw and other local government units are located. The process of nationalisation was the acquisition of property by the State, by the State Treasury, not by a local government unit. Therefore, whenever the State Treasury Minister decides to finance these reprivatisation processes, he must take into account the sequence of events and consequences that have taken place and have led to the fact that a specific local government unit has become the owner of the law, which is then denied. The adoption of this solution - to equip or extend the beneficiary's circle to other local government units that can apply for these measures - gives rise to risks and concerns, whether in the future, when such a time comes, because it will always come to satisfy former owners, someone will not want to reach the local government units to cover those measures which will, not: to collect those funds which are necessary to satisfy these claims, also those local government units participated. We also point to this risk that when the chosen ones use these funds, everyone else is not obliged to pay for the reprivatisation. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Club of Law... [[Voice from the courtroom: Law and Justice, bravo!]] ... The Civic Platform makes four amendments to the proposed act [[♪ The bell ♪]] Legally, so that these changes, which also imply the right of local government to benefit from these measures, are not merely a verbal declaration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u486	Thank you very much. Jerzy Kozłowski from the Kukiz club15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on amending the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act, print No 659. It is worth reminding here that under the governments of PO and PSL the amount was reduced from 5 to 1.5% which meant a complete lack of respect for people seeking compensation for nationalisation decrees in Warsaw. Yes, in Warsaw, because the territorial scope was also narrowed to m.st. Warsaw at the expense of other local governments, also having commercial assets. I wonder how this applies to recent press reports on Warsaw magistrate officials in relation to e.g. the transfer of parcels. Poland is the last country of the Eastern Block, which has not carried out a reprivatization law for 27 years. All the countries of the block did this. Unfortunately, the lack of such a law caused the property not to be given back to the owners. The lack of this law has led to the enmity of the post-communist nomenclature and now the party nomenclature. Poland did not take advantage of the chance to rebuild the Polish middle class, and this was the chance it had in the 1990s. Now he's losing that chance again. The politicians of the present PiS still in Jan Olszewski's government promised a reprivatization bill. Unfortunately, they didn't keep their word. The main assumptions of the present law are that local governments from all over the country, and not so far Warsaw, will be able to receive grants from the Reprivatisation Fund for the payment of claims against the Treasury made by former owners of assets taken over by the State Treasury. Previously, the law provided for the possibility of grants only for the city of Warsaw. It's positive. The grant will continue to be optional, the decision will be taken by the Treasury Minister. The local government will have to demonstrate the specific circumstances justifying the grant. This may continue to discriminate against certain local authorities, but it is still a good direction. The funds of the fund will still be available in 2016 to increase the share capital of the Polish Television S.A., Polish Radio and regional radio companies. And here we are dealing with the use of the Reprivatisation Fund's assets for purposes that are not necessarily intended. So the money that was supposed to be used, among other things. to create a reprivatization bill, will be used to sustain companies of the Treasury taken over by party clans. The Treasury Minister is given the opportunity to invest funds of the Fund in shares of public companies. Same charge as above. A minimum level of funds of twice the expenditure incurred in the previous financial year is required. The bill comes on the day of the announcement. The Reprivatisation Fund is a State-owned special-purpose fund established under Article. Paragraph 56 1 point 1 of the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act of 30 August 1996. Funds from sales of 5% are collected on the fund account shares belonging to the State Treasury in each of the companies arising from commercialisation and interest on those funds for the purpose of satisfying claims by former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury. At the end of 2015, the fund was close to PLN 5 billion, while expenditure from the fund over the last 5 years was on average about PLN 290 million per year. What conclusion? The Act will serve to finance the failing companies of the State Treasury. Today's predictions are that it's gonna benefit from this. Television Poland. The budget will end in November, which is why this law without vacathio legis allows for an increase in share capital this year. Moreover, the possibility of investing from the fund in the State Treasury company will be a form of recapitalisation of such companies. Let me remind you that the statutory allocation of the fund is the objectives [[♪ The bell ♪]] relating to the settlement of claims by former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch from the Modern Club will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u489	Dear Marshal, Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Commercialisation and Privatization. In principle, the whole of the submission concerns changes in the scope of the Reprivatisation Fund. And that's how the article is deleted. 69f law, which introduced the possibility of paying m.st. Warsaw special-purpose subsidy for the financing of payments relating to compensation for agricultural holdings or single-family houses expropriated under the so-called. Warsaw land, i.e. Land which, on the basis of the Decree of 26 October 1945 on the ownership and use of land in the area of m.st. Warsaw is owned by the State if its previous owners or successors were deprived of effective ownership of the real estate after 5 April 1958. Article 1 is inserted for this provision. Paragraph 56 1 point (1) (a) ba, introducing a general principle, the possibility for all local government units to obtain special subsidies for the financing of claims by former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury, while Article. Paragraph 56 4f provides that the total amount of grants awarded during the financial year may not exceed PLN 200 million. At this point the question arises: Is the total amount of the grant to be applied to only one local government unit, or the total amount of grants granted to all local government units during the financial year cannot be higher than PLN 200 million? It should be stressed that the Reprivatisation Fund should be used for the purpose of satisfying claims of former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury. In this context, it is not understandable to introduce a provision which allows funds to be allocated to finance the acquisition by the State Treasury, represented by the Minister responsible for State Treasury, shares of public companies. To this day, the government has not presented any solution to the sound problem of reprivatization claims, while this provision is being tried, and it is under the guise of the supposed more efficient use of funds of the fund, to seize nearly PLN 5 billion to improve the financial condition of the closer-to-defined companies of the State Treasury, putting any reprivatization measures into question. This is not the case and there will be no agreement of the Modern Posel Club. A complete puriazum is introduced the standard art. 69g, under which this provision creates the possibility of allocating the funds of the Reprivatisation Fund to increase the share capital of the media. You should ask yourself: What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? What do the media have to reprivatize? As we understand, the government, as a result of the failure to work on media laws, urgently needs funds to finance pro-government media and does not hesitate to reach all possible sources, including the reprivatization fund, to finance Kurski's TVPiS. Undoubtedly, the proposed statutory amendments are only aimed at ruining the Polish state, they are inconsistent. In this state of affairs, the Modern Parliamentary Club will vote against the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u490	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, also from the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The issue of reprivatization, which has not been resolved since the beginning of Polish changes, is burdened by all offices of the entire 25 years, and here there are no exceptions. The money that is in the fund account today is less than PLN 5 billion. We know that the need to address all reprivatisation issues is much higher. All the more reason not to reach for these measures. Mr President, it is not an explanation that the predecessors reached for these measures in a much higher amount, and you can therefore do so in a smaller amount. For me today it was unacceptable to introduce the self-correction and to increase further the amount of funding for the Polish Television. I believe that this was not due to any analysis of the needs of these units, because this amount was increased by 50% to PLN 30 million in a few minutes. I would remind you that the scope of the possible recapitalisation of State Treasury companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] has not been limited in quota. In this respect, the State Treasury, as I understand it, has the opportunity to act completely freely and use the full limit of PLN 5 billion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the club of the Polish People's Party will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u493	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, it's a bad bill, it has nothing to do with that laconic justification, which says it's about making better use of the funds of the reprivatization fund. It's not true, it's really about taking the money. It's like a hidden bank heist, which some people have already proven here. Today, one thing's interesting. We do not know the position of the ruling party as to the attitude towards reprivatization. That's something you'd have to think about, 'cause it keeps coming back. What's next with the reprivatization? Judging by that, if the money's lost, there won't be any reprivatization. Further consideration should be given to and calculation of the potential commitments on these issues. There's a lot going on in the courts, there's a lot going on right now. It would have to be summed up how much it is, because sentences can be different, and figure out how much money we're going to need, because at this point, the fund's power, as it used to be, is not going to be, because it's less revenue, there's nothing left to sell. Besides, you're clearly saying you're going to be buying, not selling property right now. That's the problem, 'cause it's gonna happen. They are quite time-consuming, because they sometimes last a few years. In individual resorts, where this occurs - the Minister of Development at the moment seems to have it in its scope, once had a minister of economy - these facilities, these properties are very much. We might also need to consider how to improve this reprivatisation on request, the judicial one, so that it does not take years, because it is really cumbersome. The costs for this are enormous, because these are courts, appeals several times, all instances used. These are important problems to solve, which today, at some point, our country will stand, and it may turn out that the measures will not be, because here we are giving a very broad formula of the use of these funds, unrelated to reprivatization, to the repair of these damages caused to Polish citizens. We should go about it in the economy, not in the way that we need the money, and somewhere on the side there are the money waiting for their time, we'll take it, and then we'll let the others worry. Therefore, the Polish People's Party will not support these solutions, because it is so shallow, laconic, just taking over the accumulated money. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club, I will once again say that we will be opposed to such solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mr Ireneusz will now take the floor to gain from the Free and Solidarnia wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u495	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarni Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Privatization. The draft law submitted is a corrective regulation which removes the previously adopted article. 69f of the Act a solution providing for the possibility to grant grants to m.st. Warsaw. The legislative initiative aimed at providing financial assistance to all local government units for their implementation of re-privatization claims by heirs, former owners of nationalised properties, was long awaited by local authorities. In the Reprivatisation Fund account, funds are collected from sales of 5% shares belonging to the State Treasury in each of the companies arising from commercialisation and interest on those funds for the purpose of satisfying claims by former owners of property taken over by the State Treasury. The Act grants the Treasury Minister the opportunity to invest the accumulated funds. The accumulated funds may be used to increase the portfolio of shares held by the Treasury. The revenue generated by the shares purchased will be the revenue of the fund, which will allow for greater flexibility in the planning of payments in the long term. Under the Act, the Minister of State Treasury will be able to increase the share capital of Polish Television SA, Polish Radio SA and regional radio companies in the amount not exceeding, in accordance with the amendment adopted at today's meeting of the Commission for Energy and Treasury, a total amount of PLN 30 million. This competence involves the emergence of a special situation for public media this year. Finally, the Act provides for temporary maintenance under the Decree of the Minister of State Treasury of 29 June 2010 on the detailed manner of conducting the financial management of the Reprivatisation Fund, but not for more than 3 months from the date of entry into force of the Act. The need for this solution is dictated by a short deadline for the entry into force of the proposed law, i.e. on the day following the date of publication and the need to adapt the content of the Regulation to the amendments proposed in the draft law. However, it should be noted that there are also some doubts about the shape of the regulation. The projectors proposed that the funds collected in the Reprivatisation Fund account should be used to implement the agreements by paying the benefits resulting from final judgments, court settlements and final administrative decisions issued in connection with the nationalisation of property. It should be noted that the projectors assumed that the grant constituted aid if the JST met its re-privatisation claims only through the payment of benefits and that therefore the funds derived from the grant would not be able to support local authorities in the event of decisions requiring local authorities to repay their real estate in kind. This is a very serious limitation, because it is the obligation to return the property in nature that is the primary problem of local government units. In addition, the subsidy referred to in Article. Paragraph 56 1 point (1) (a) c, in accordance with the proposed Article. Paragraph 56 4e of the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act may be granted if the financial resources collected in the fund account so permit. This is a non-precision provision, in particular in the absence of a regulation on the management of the Reprivatisation Fund and in the absence of clear findings as to the conditions to be met by the local government unit. Finally, on the basis of the article. Paragraph 56 4e the amended act must specify the specific circumstances justifying the grant, including those relating to its financial situation preventing the self-fulfilment of the claims in question. The specific circumstances justifying the grant are not indicated. The above-mentioned issues require as much detail as possible. It is up to them whether or not an applicant for a targeted grant will receive support. Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle will support the bill submitted, while pointing to the need to clarify the above mentioned details in order to remove possible interpretation doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u496	Thank you very much. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions you're asking. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the club of the Polish People's Party, will be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions. What is the reason for such rapid procession, the entry into force of the law because we do not give any vacathio legis? Even the Legislature Bureau said there should be some justification. There is no justification for the sudden implementation of this law. Renationalization, the state is often referred to as renationalization, which is the purchase of this property. Is this money also meant to be used to buy private property? There won't be much of this money, so we'd have to think about it too. Another question. What other companies, apart from television and radio, are you going to recapitalize, because probably these ideas are in the background somewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u498	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the justification for this project was very laconic. I have a question for the Members of the applicants. Do you have data on other local government units and possibly the amount necessary for these local government units to cover the costs of claims by former owners? Not without a Cossack, I pointed to the 1945 decree on Warsaw land, but here is a completely different specificity, a different scale of claims. The second question, you are also talking more about... the supposedly more efficient use of funds from the reprivatization fund for the acquisition of shares in public companies. You might want to give us some insight into what kind of public companies it is. If more efficient use of resources, you must have done some analysis. on the specific companies and the use of these funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u500	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I want to return to the issue of recapitalisation of public companies and recapitalisation of radio and television, Polish Television and Polish Radio or regional companies. My question to the applicants and to the representatives of the Treasury Ministry is: What was the basis for determining this amount of recapitalisation: initially - 20 million, ultimately - 30? What happened when you had to increase that amount by 50%? [[The posts are falling, the commercials are getting less and less.]] Were there any unusual circumstances? We can only guess how today we observe the activities of the Polish Television Board, that really such extraordinary circumstances could have taken place. Requesting an explanation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u502	Thank you. Now you ask Krzysztof Sitarski, the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, as did the predecessors, who referred to possible funds intended to finance the acquisition by the State Treasury, by the Minister responsible for State treasury matters of public company shares. Is the possible loss of finance taken into account due to such purchases, taking into account the prices of some companies of the Treasury, on the example of one of the mining companies, which in 4 years fell from the ceiling of PLN 137 to PLN 18? Is there going to be a mechanism to protect these measures? Another question. In view of the fact that many generations of Poles are waiting for this, will it finally be submitted a draft reprivatization bill to actually close economic communism at this moment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u504	Thank you. The question is asked by Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 20 million in the morning, 30 million in the afternoon, the Reprivatization Fund, the national environmental fund, the demographic fund, you can jump around like this, you can make up your mind. We're doing 20, 30, out of this fund, out of that fund, fast, fast, because we need to save Jack Kurski's TV. [[Falling.]] I am not surprised at all, but I do not know whether such an action is reasonable, because, as BAS points out, TVP's aid may be regarded as incompatible State aid within the meaning of Article. 107 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We are European, that is your assurance, so let us try to implement European Union law. The second point is the question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] questions of the Polish Districts Association, but this question has already been asked by a colleague, and time is up, so I won't... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u506	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u507	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the project contains a controversial provision on the financing of the increase in television capital. I must say that in this bad record we find a certain humorous element, because here the president of television, who was supposed to be a savior, sail with television into new waters, introduce new standards, increase the ratings, cause an increase in revenue, so unhappyly began to perform this function that in a short time it was necessary to find a law, which had to be added 30 million PLN, because simply the new president is not doing well. Therefore, I wanted to ask the question whether the Ministry plans to strengthen supervision of tasks by the President of Polish Television, because if we react in this way that we will look at it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What the President is doing, and every time his decisions lead to collapse, he puts in a public penny again, we're finally going to go bankrupt as a state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u508	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury, Mr Mikołaj Wild. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the proposed proposal, we would like to express a positive opinion on it. This positive opinion refers to all three fundamental amendments introduced by this law. It seems to us that we are missing the attention of the debaters that the Reprivatisation Fund is a distinct mass of property, but an isolated mass of property for political purposes. The change that is being proposed is nothing new in terms of the management of resources in terms of the technical layer, as I pointed out during the committee meeting. It is already possible to transfer funds to the revenue of the State budget. So it is not that the transfer of certain funds constitutes a structural breach in a certain structure of a fund that exists. The Reprivatisation Fund serves as a rule to cover the obligations of the State Treasury. In fact, a few years ago, it was broken through the support of the M.S. Warsaw. This took place in 2014 and was continued in 2015. However, it is not quite so that the expenditure of the Reprivatisation Fund is constantly increasing. In 2013, i.e. before the introduction of the M.S. support mechanism. Warsaw, we dealt with expenditure at the level of PLN 238 million, then when m.st. Warsaw received support from the State Treasury, expenditure actually jumped to PLN 413 million, while in 2015 expenditure fell again to PLN 380 million. So it's not that this growth is linear and permanent - we're dealing with some fluctuations here. As regards the solution which extends the scope of the beneficiaries to other local authorities, I would like to point out that this solution does not undermine the interests of m.st. Warsaw. The only change that currently exists is a change in the way the need for grants is justified. It is still an optional grant which can be recognised but does not have to be recognised, depending on the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the Act. As regards the possibility for the Minister of Treasury to invest funds, it seems to us that it escapes the attention of the debaters that the primary source of the fund's power is the income from privatisation. Meanwhile, practically everything that could have been sold has been sold. The basic source of the fund's income will dry in the course of... Last year there were no privatisation payments for the Reprivatisation Fund, and this year they probably won't be there either. The only revenue of the Reprivatisation Fund is interest income of PLN 118 million. For this reason, we recognise that the freezing of the funds collected for the Reprivatisation Fund is an ineffective solution. As with all investments, as with the management of public funds, this is of course subject to scrutiny, including prosecutorial control. I would also like to point out that the solution provided for in the article of the Law providing for the provision of services to the Polish Television and other public media does not make a substantial change in substance, does not affect the interests of persons who may claim compensation from the Treasury. This is because the funds raised in the fund cannot in any way... The extent to which the State Treasury has the resources in the Reprivatisation Fund does not affect its responsibilities, which is why we maintain our recommendation for this project to the full extent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u510	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Suski, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u511	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few questions have been asked here by the applicant. One, I think, of the most important questions concerns the possibility of questioning this subsidy to public companies as illegal state aid. But I have here the opinion of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which states, first of all, that this is not subject to public aid proceedings. Secondly, it should also be noted that in accordance with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Regulation of the Commission of the European Community also in respect of the implementation of Council Regulations, such rules say that the increase in the original budget of the existing aid scheme to 20% is not considered to be a change in existing aid. As the Commission does not refer to a specific aid budget in its preliminary opinion, the data from the reports provided by the National Radio and Television Council should be used in this case. It follows that the State aid was in the period 2013 to 2016 amounting to 650 and 750 million on an annual basis and therefore there is no threat of this kind here, as this amount does not exceed 20% the average annual amount of aid granted to public broadcasters. I wanted to dispel that doubt. On the other hand, of course, when it comes to the general problem referred to here, i.e. reprivatisation, it really seems extremely difficult, because here was a question about the scale of claims depending on how to value the assets that were taken over by these decrees, i.e. from PLN 100 million to PLN 700 billion. So much weight relief, that despite the many promises of the previous governments... After all, for 27 years after the breakthrough in various PSL configurations, once the Union of Freedom, which was largely continued by the Civic Platform, had many powers. I remember Bronisław Komorowski when he ran for president. He promised a reprivatization bill, saying that the minimum minimal amount was 50%. Later, when it comes to governance, it turns out that the state has no resources, and these, it seems, even large funds of about PLN 5 million, are a fraction of the claims that should be met. It turns out that the Polish State is simply not able to satisfy these claims. Perhaps for this reason there was no reprivatization bill adopted until the end, because there were many projects. I recall, once again, when the Ministry of Property Transformation was present, the Legislative Commission was working on one of the first drafts of the reprivatization bill, when the majority in the Sejm had SLD and PSL, there were these words: we did not take them to return them now. And it was to a large extent the privatisation and ownership of the nomenclature or the various people which prevented the recovery of the property which was embezzled. Today, 27 years after the change, there's really not much left of this property. If you see, after 8 years of governance and failure to solve this problem, that is an unsolved problem and maybe this government will solve it, but I say that this is a big hypocrisy, because it could have been done earlier if you had an idea. Today you say: we didn't have an idea, we didn't do it, but the PiS came, he could do it like a miracle worker. The PiS, although it's a party that rules honestly, isn't a miracle worker either. And so much for the sad conclusion about the unresolved problem of reprivatization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But there was no answer to why an additional $10 million for TV, Marek.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u512	Thank you very much. [[To save this dead guy?]] [[Of course.]] The discussion is closed. As four amendments were tabled to the proposed bill at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and on the amendment of the law on perpetual books and mortgage (prints Nos 673 and 688). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to the High House. The Marshal of the Sejm addressed to the Rural Development Commission: a draft law amending the Law on perpetual books and mortgage, the Act on the formation of the agricultural system and the Act on the suspension of the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury of Modern Members, print No. 660, a draft act amending the Act on the amendment of the Act on the sale of property of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury, the Act on perpetual books and mortgage and the Act on the formation of the agricultural system, Members of the Civic Platform, print No. 672, a draft of the Act on the amendment of the Act on the formation of agricultural system and on the amendment of the Act on perpetual books and hypotheses, Members of Law and Justice, print No. 673. The Committee on Agriculture today, after reading the drafts submitted and conducting the general discussion as a result of the vote, has given a negative opinion on the drafts in prints 660 and 672. On the other hand, the bill submitted in print No. 673 amending the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system and amending the Act on perpetual books and mortgage, by Law and Justice, was as far as possible after the first reading and the introduction of the self-correction in the article. 1 as amended 1. in point 1 (a) c, by deleting the parts of the sentence which constitute joint ownership, was positively assessed. The bill was created in connection with problems raised by social organisations of farmers, banks and citizens in obtaining mortgage loans and securing them on agricultural property. The proposal proposes that paragraph be repealed. Article 2a 68 Act on perpetual books and mortgages, exemption from the Act on the formation of agricultural property which is internal and joint-ownership, as well as limitation of the right of the Agricultural Property Agency to acquire shares and shares in commercial companies in cases where buyers are persons close to the seller or acquisition is the result of statutory succession, or the acquisition of shares or shares by an individual farmer is the result of inheritance or recovery. The bill received a positive position taking part in the meeting of the committee of representatives of agricultural organizations, as well as a representative of the Union of Polish Banks. The project also has a positive BAS opinion on non-compliance with EU law standards. The committee's report is contained in print No 688. I ask the High House to adopt a draft law amending the Act on the formation of agricultural system and amending the Act on perpetual books and mortgage, submitted in print no. 673. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u514	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u515	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are improving the law which entered into force on 30 April this year, regulating the rotation of agricultural land in Poland. It is a historical law and despite criticisms from the opposition, I believe that this law serves Polish agriculture well, introduces the principle of agricultural land availability for farmers. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Ha, ha, ha.]] [[Krzysiek...]] Of course, she probably violated a number of interests, especially those who used the land only as a deposit of capital, often taking over the land for little money from those who were in financial desperation or difficult family situations of farmers, probably hit the interests of developers, probably hit the interests of Western European farmers who wanted to acquire the land. [[Probably hit the interests of Polish farmers.]] However, she did not introduce contrary to what is often being told so far, some barriers for people who want to become farmers in Poland who want to start a farm. Also to those who live outside rural areas, by agreement: in the city, if they want to move to rural areas, this law of course offers such opportunities. [[He's not.]] This law also assumes, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister of Agriculture and Deputy Minister of Babalski, who is leading this law, has informed us, that if there are various problems with its implementation, we will improve this law. Such a problem has arisen in contact with banks when it comes to the problem of lending investments on agricultural property. It turns out that banks that had not previously questioned this record, which was included in the August Ub Act. R., adopted by the previous coalition, suddenly raised the limit, stating that they would not lend investment on agricultural property, as the provision of the Act makes the introduction of mortgage securities difficult. There are many other collaterals for loans and loans, but if the banks believe that there is a problem of establishing a mortgage and establishing the value of this mortgage on agricultural property, we want to change this law in this respect. [[Oh, Krzysztof, Krzysztof...]] One of the provisions of the amendment concerns this. [[But we talked about it.]] She's sure, too. maybe also illogical, but resulting from a small scale of this phenomenon. If a farmer is engaged in agricultural activities within a company governed by commercial law, we want to restrict the Agricultural Property Agency's application of the right of repurchase also of shares and shares, not only of agricultural property, if the disposal, movement of shares and shares takes place between loved ones. It seems to be a fairly logical solution. If necessary, this law will also be revised in the following months in order to eliminate all that would be illogical, which would block the use of agricultural land primarily for agricultural purposes, but at the same time we will stand firm on the guard of the Polish land. I want, using the fact that we are dealing with this law, to propose an amendment that extends the catalogue of public entities that can buy agricultural land, to national parks. We also consider this important because some farmers who manage national parks and have huge problems with rational farming because of the natural constraints that exist in the park want these properties... [[But you destroy them, you cut the woods.]] ...sell. I don't see any reason why parks that implement the principle of sustainable development and care about nature have no legal basis for those properties in parks that farmers want... [[And farmers don't?]] ...sell, maybe buy. The parks are preparing for this, have the appropriate resources and are prepared to extend the crops also to the land sold by farmers. That is why we believe that this kind of solution is most logical. I would therefore like to state on behalf of the Law and Justice Club that these changes, which have been proposed in the committee's report and discussed by Mr Duda, we accept, and on the hands of the Marshal, I propose an amendment to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system, which extends the catalogue of public entities entitled to buy agricultural land. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u516	Thank you very much. You will now speak with Mr Dorota Sunday from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and on the amendment of the law on perpetual books and mortgage, print No. 673. This is one of the prints that was presented in the committee. Let me just remind you that there are also two other prints, 660 and 672. These were projects of Modern and Civic Platform. Of course, they were rejected with grace, as the rapporteur said. And let me just remind you that we are dealing with a bill that this House adopted on 14 March... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: April.]] April. ...and which came into force on May 1st... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: 30 April came in.]] ... 2016... 14 was accepted by this House and sent back to the Senate. Actually, Minister, it's been running for two months. Very nicely the Minister called this monitoring, I will call it a little more appropriate, that is, an amendment to the failure that has appeared in this House. [[Applause]] [[Oh, Mrs...]] During the whole period, yes, Madam, for the whole period... you are not a member of the Committee on Agriculture, so you may not know that we have been paying attention to the Minister all the time to the problems that will arise in connection with the entry into force of this law. Unfortunately, the Minister did not want to use our comments very much. Many times, the Minister reminded me that these records were also in the bill that we've dealt with. I will tell you right away: it is better to learn from mistakes other than to make them alone. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: It was already done.]] That's what it was, too. So we absolutely think it's an unconstitutional bill, which is why... [[Exactly.]] ...on May 23, we applied to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of this law. [[Applause]] We hope that this law will be challenged and that it will be completely amended. Since the introduction of this law led to the absolute destruction of the real estate market, moreover, in our parliamentary offices, as well as in your parliamentary offices, and hence this change, there were people who were harmed by this law - they were harmed, they were refused any... [[Farmers.]] It's not just farmers, it's also people who have agricultural land, it's not farming. They were harmed because they could not apply for loans, they were denied loans. It's already on the committee. I said, "I serve the addresses of those who have been wronged." I hope you'll apologize for the bad record in this bill. Today, the Member said during the committee's deliberations: It is not that the law is created so long as it is made good - the law is created good. So I don't think we're gonna be correcting this bill any longer. Although we do not believe that this is a bad bill, for the sake of those who have been wronged, we will vote in favour of these amendments, in favour of... [[Oh... What's the big deal?]] [[Applause]] ...the Minister has removed the record of the inability to store security options in the mortgage. This is the amendment that we wanted most. On the other hand, the rest of the amendments, which you have failed to take into account when rejecting our proposal, are tabled in the form of amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u519	I'll repeat: the non-constitutional bill according to us... [[Bad.]] ...a law that has done a lot of bad things and which has limited the most important thing that the constitution gives us - has limited the possibility of having private property. The most important thing we have is our private property, to which we have the right - the right to communicate it, to [[Applause]] inheritance and transfer into whatever hands we want. This has been said many times today: the state as a ruler does not believe citizens. You don't believe the people, you don't believe the farmers... [[Yes.]] ...because of the suspicion that they're gonna be [[Applause]] They speculated on this land. Hence our request and the amendment to take account of the possibility of separating the 30-a-piece. This is not at all a possibility of speculation, Minister. It is possible to own your property. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, we will be in favour of the amendment because of the [[♪ The bell ♪]] enabling people to invest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u520	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u521	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Kukiz club15 regarding the current bill. More than 2 months ago, the Sejm passed a law to suspend the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. The basic objective of the law was to create effective protection against the buying of Polish land by foreign entities. This objective has been achieved. However, I would like to draw attention to the way in which the draft law dealt with the issue which was most problematic, namely the amount of the mortgage on agricultural property. According to the current wording of the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a The law on perpetual books and mortgages shall not exceed the market value of that property fixed at the date of the establishment of the mortgage. The provision has created extremely protective behaviour of banks that have begun to refrain from lending. The draft law proposes repealing this article, which will result in a return to the previous legal situation in which the sum of the mortgage on agricultural property was shaped by the parties to the contract when it was established. Please note how large, nothing unjustified affects banks, not only on farmers themselves, but also on legislation. The question arises: Does having capital give you that much power? At the first reading of the draft law on halting the sale of land, I stressed that farmers and banks should be equal players who should jointly depend on the success of the investment. Unfortunately, reality has shown that cooperation and partnership remain in the realm of fantasy. Poland needs a good law that will effectively defend the interests of farmers. It needs rules that will work to its advantage, which will provide farmers with a fair wage in return for hard and honest work. The Polish farmer must be able to rise from his knees and feel that he is the true host of his land. Now farmers are exploited by banks that can lend, and they can say, as is the case at present, that they will not give credit. [[And it's the legislator's fault, PiS, not the bank.]] From the farmer's work [[Applause]] ... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: How do you clap for a Member, then why change the bill?]] ...profits derive large commercial networks, which often construct contracts in a dishonest way, using their size and strength. In the last six months, my club has made several laws aimed primarily at increasing the profitability of farms by using the rural resources available to farmers. Already in January we submitted a draft law on the sale of food by farmers, which will allow farmers to produce and sell processed agricultural products. [[So? Nothing.]] Last month we submitted a proposal for a law on the use of habitats for non-agricultural activities, which gives farmers the opportunity to operate within their own habitat without the need for costly, several hundred thousandths of land removal. It is precisely such laws that create a real opportunity to improve the situation in the countryside and to emerge from the deepening crisis, which includes an increasing number of agricultural sectors, that will make agriculture a force and a flywheel of the Polish economy. I hope that such important and long-awaited laws will not be kept in the Seym freezer and as today's bill will be converted at an express rate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today it is up to us that the future of the Polish village depends on us, whether agriculture in Poland will develop in the future, like agriculture in the West, whether it will allow for a decent life of Poles or agriculture will fall, we will become a country without food facilities, and a few million farmers will have joined the ranks of unemployed or leaving Poland. I therefore call on your Members to ensure that agriculture is not an arena for party push-ups, but to work together under divisions, under divisions... [[Under? You mean over?]] [[Over the divisions.]] [[Or over the divisions.]] ...because we all have the same common interest - working out the best regulations in the interests of Polish agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u522	Thank you very much. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will now speak. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Starting the debate in the plenary room on this bill, I can only say: I told you so, Minister. [[Applause]] And it was to listen, Minister, as I said in the committee's work, that the bill we were working on would be an investment paralysis of the country. It was necessary to think more deeply about the amendments tabled by the Modern Club. We wouldn't have another hour to fix it today. [[Applause]] Which we just established two months ago. A month after the entry into force of the new law, which entered into force on 1 May and blocked us a little bit, not a little, because very, investmentally the country, Poles on their skin felt what the Law and Justice had given them. Thousands of people couldn't build a house. Government policy has made dreams of their own corners and roof over their heads shattered. [[Oh, Jesus.]] And it is the Law and Justice that says that he wants to support housing in Poland, that young people deserve to have. [[It supports, Member, supports.]] It's a good thing you can take a step back and fix what you've ruined. [[Yeah, you're exchanging new positions.]] Similarly, farmers cannot carry out the planned investments by this law simply because the agricultural land, which has been a great security for all claims so far, has suddenly become a troublesome security. Of course, the problem was the record of the famous mortgages and the value of the investment, and to be precise, that the bank lending money could not enter through restrictions introduced by the Law and Justice of the future value of the property. And no one's gonna borrow money without getting adequate collateral for the money they borrowed. The problem concerned agricultural parcels as well as these parcels up to 3 000. m2, They were to be excluded from the bill. Unfortunately, that's how we make the law... [[That's how PiS makes the law.]] Well, the ruling crew. ...that some of the amendments fall quickly, without thinking, then we have inconsistencies of regulations and something that was to be excluded from the law, ultimately from this law is not excluded, and the further provisions unfortunately include it. Listening to the chairman of the committee, Mr Sachaika, I have a little sense of schizophrenia... [[Do you?]] ...because on the one hand, Mr. Chairman is talking about... [[Member, this is called cognitive dissonance.]] When we worked on the agricultural sector, the Member said that here agricultural land can only be used for cultivation, the land will end, it must be defended, and today he says that he has submitted a bill so that farmers can use a piece of this land for other purposes without farming. Not to mention, Mr. Chairman, that... [[Member, we need to read the laws.]] ...it's in the farmer's interest that we're making this amendment today, we're correcting this bill. Because what's better, Mr. Chairman, for a farmer? Is it so that the bank would not be able to secure itself on the ground and thus enter its private property, securing itself additionally and taking 5 security features in place of one good one, which could be the Polish land? Is it in the farmer's interest, however, to regulate what we are trying to do today, and to make the farmer come to the bank and say, "I want to put the cowshed on this land and the bank's representative answered, "Well, give me this security?" Then there's one security for one investment, the case is clean, and if you do, the recovery goes from one property, to logic. I really ask you again not to speak on matters that you will not think about, which you will not think about, or which you do not have the right knowledge about. The Modern Club was the first to see this problem. [[That's not true.]] In advance, we said it could be solved quickly. We gave the Marshal the first draft of our bill, the draft of our amendment. Of course today, during the committee work, this amendment was rejected, but we are pleased with one thing, and we are pleased that, under the influence of our appeals, the Minister has hit his chest, we appreciate it, he has taken a step backwards. Today we have a bill, which this piece, although narrow, because much, much more in this system you have spoiled and much more is there to repair, what will the villagers also feel, and the periphery of the cities... I hope we're going to go back with the modifications and fix another piece of your rotten farm system. However, given that this is exactly what we wanted, first of all, to urgently resolve the problem of securing both those who build homes and those farmers who want to make their investments and cannot, because the bank suspended the financing and credit process, of course the Modern Club will support this solution. She won't be prolonging any more. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will not submit further amendments that would probably be rejected anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u524	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, as corrected, 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u525	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! I would like to inform you that the land underneath the habitat is not used for sowing. This is the land that is under the buildings, so I still think - I think that if you came to the country, you would also find out - that you cannot sow anything on this land. That is why we would need to read the bill first and then criticize it and refer to it. Everything is in line with what I said at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u526	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I would like to correct...]] Madam President, this is not a discussion. There was time at the committee meeting... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But the Member did not understand me completely...]] But the Member has been straightening up about your speech. Let's not overreact. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I am sorry, Marshal, that some parliamentarians are allowed in and others are not.]] [[We understand, we understand...]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u527	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will start by saying that the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this project, because it is a project that changes at least a little bit this defective bill, a law that works badly, which has a whole bunch of flaws. This law has been fit to be thrown out from the beginning, but thanks to, it seems, more than 20 amendments, which under the influence of farmers, the opposition, the members of the agricultural committee, and it has been introduced in this Chamber, have amended this law so that it is at least theoretically suitable for use... Practice has shown that it is not fit for use and that the few amendments that have been tabled are minimal, but this law is improving. I could also say, "Didn't I tell you?" I think that in the following weeks, months we will have the opportunity to observe further changes to this law, you will, maybe quietly, but admit your mistakes made, unless you deny it and say that this law is great, and it will continue to harm many places in the Polish village. What about this: What did I tell you? We raised the issue of mortgage and collateral with land, and we talked about how unattractive it would be for banks. And don't talk about some virtual Western corporations who want to destroy Polish agriculture by giving it credit. I'll talk about the example of cooperative banks. I had this conversation last night. The representatives of the cooperative banks said that such a land under the loan pledge is and after these changes will still be unattractive to them, because a group of people who can later buy this land by way of auction from the bank is limited. Banks will use a bad conversion factor for farmers to secure loans, because once again, I will stress, these land is unattractive for banks. For farmers who could buy these land, they are attractive, but these limitations you have introduced are very difficult. There's a whole bunch of flaws in this bill. Like I said at the beginning, we're probably gonna support this bill. Perhaps farmers come to my parliamentary office, including yours, every week to my parliamentary office and show further shortcomings of this law, after visiting the notaries, after a long time waiting for the decision of the Agricultural Property Agency, whether this land wants to take over or doesn't want to take over... I will remind you that very often farmers need money not only to carry out agricultural activities, because there is nothing wrong with the fact that a farmer wants to separate some piece of land from his farm, that piece of land to sell to someone, for example. someone from the city who wants to settle in this area, and the money spent to invest in the development of their farm, e.g. Using the funds of the European Union, our national and not borrowing, because often the farmer cannot borrow. So what's wrong with a farmer wanting to split the farm, separate the land and sell the land? And that's the amendment we're calling for, once again. The point is to exclude land below 0.5 ha from the obligations of this law. The land of 0.5 ha will not contribute to the assassination of Polish land, here some aliens or Germany and all these land after 0.5 ha will not buy out. Don't be so afraid, don't be afraid of Polish farmers. As we said, they will not set up immediately after the entry into force of this law in a queue to the German who will want to buy this land from them. These are normal, decent people who want to manage, and don't make it difficult for them to operate this bill. We, of course, will support these amendments. We are wondering whether to submit a draft amendment to this law, because we know that it will go to the basket in advance, but maybe these draft amendments will cause you to prepare, as in this particular case, your own project, and this project will even slightly improve this law. Mr. Marshal, the PSL club, as I have already said many times today, will support this project because it, although to a minimum, improves this law. By the way, I wouldn't want the final of this bill to be that you're going to change, change and change... [[That's how it's gonna be.]] ...and you will lead to the fact that it will be much more liberal than the one that was adopted in the previous term, or you will argue and you will not change anything, and it will be very, very deadly, as it is today's non-life law. It comes out that way, and I, Minister, warned in the first debate that you were opening Pandora's box with this bill, that you were trying to force yourself to do something better than what was adopted in the previous term, and that's how it works. If you want to do something forcefully, without logic, it comes out a legal bullshit that needs to be improved later, and you have to admit it later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u528	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz will take the floor to gain from the Free and Solidarnia wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the draft law amending the law on the shaping of the agricultural system and on the amendment of the law on perpetual books and mortgage. Resolutiond by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on 14 April this year. The law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws aimed at minimising the risk of foreign buying-in of agricultural land on a large scale after the expiry of the protection periods negotiated before accession to the European Union. Prior to its adoption, many experts pointed out that the achievement of this objective, which is of national interest, could be at the expense of serious difficulties for farmers in their ownership and development of their farms. Unfortunately, these concerns have been confirmed, as demonstrated by farmers' difficulties in obtaining mortgage loans with the protection established on agricultural property. As we can read in the justification of the project, I quote that the practice of banks translates by limiting the amount of the mortgage to the market value of agricultural property, which in their view makes it impossible for them to properly secure their loans. The Free and Solidarnia Circle hopes that the proposed amendment to the Law on perpetual books and mortgage resulting in a return to legal status prior to 30 April 2016, in which the sum of the mortgage on agricultural property was shaped by the parties to the agreement when it was established, as well as changes to the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system, taking into account the demands of citizens, will help to address the problems arising in this section of the functioning of the new legal system in the field of agricultural property. At the same time, I am afraid that this will not be the only problem and we will soon hear about further problems, such as the dedication of a significant, discretionary authority in the field of real estate trading to the officials of the Agricultural Property Agency, thus creating a field for various types of abuse. I think that next year will be a good time to determine who was right: whether those who said we were dealing with a well-designed law, or those who called it a legal bubble, which, with justification, led to the expulsion of a child with a bath. Only one who doesn't do anything is wrong. Implementation of the Law of 14 April this year. was dictated by an important national interest. It is a good thing that as soon as the bill was passed, the Sejm reacts to the use by banks of practices hostile to the owners of agricultural property. [[Respecting the law - passed by the PiS and by you, amen, that's the truth.]] In this case, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be said that the legislator is stubbornly wrong, but it must be said that he has taken action to remove it quickly... [[You should have done it from the start.]] ...what should be noted and written on the plus of the High House, which unfortunately has been treated differently in the past term not only in this area, but also in various legislative areas. [[Applause]] [[You weren't in your past term, were you?]] The Free and Solidarni Poselski Club will support the proposed draft law on amending the law on shaping the agricultural system and amending the law on perpetual books and mortgage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u530	Thank you very much. Seven ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski is the first to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u531	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the phenomenon of spatial planning, ba, spatial governance in the countryside. This law gives major powers to municipalities, because it is they who de facto decide through a local spatial planning plan what direction and how they want to develop the municipalities. When it comes to these 30 acres that have been mentioned so many times here, among others. for this reason we do not want to allow them to be secreted in agricultural fields to avoid conflicts, which, as a live one, are also coming to your offices, problems at the interface between those who settle in cities and problems concerning the introduction of agricultural production. So it seems that this should be supported, not constantly criticized, so that by giving local governments the right to shape order, we avoid building naturally sensitive areas in the Mauretan-Byzantine-Ukrainian style. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Who was that question to, Mr. Christopher?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u532	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u533	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have a comfortable situation at the moment, because there is no guilty opposition, because it is not the opposition's fault that we have to correct the law, because the opposition has talked about it from the beginning. And it's a good thing that right now we have this comfort, just a question of why it was a mix-up, since you could've done it from the beginning. that's good, because everyone was talking about it, and on the left, and on the right, as well as about other bad solutions that work. Life began to run after the bill was passed normally, on a normal track and it turned out that the problems are increasing and there will be even more problems. They come to us, to the parliamentary offices, and report these problems. I have a question about what we're supposed to answer, Minister, if they're gonna... Minister, I have a question for the Minister. [[Minister...]] I have a question as to whether you are planning further improvements to this bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Give me a second, Mr. Marshal. People are asking because there are more and more problems. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: Yes.]] Do we have to report these amendments, make amendments, or do you do it, like, when, at what time... [[Mr President, time is up.]] ...because time is on the move. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u534	Thank you very much, sir. Now you are asking the question of Artur Dunin from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u535	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Would you like to say, Minister, did we not talk about this? We told you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: You have no satisfaction.]] We told you, but you don't listen, you know better. There's a saying that he's right about who doesn't do anything. In your case, you shouldn't do anything, because what you're doing is every time it's legal. Another thing. You rejected the projects prepared by the Civic Platform club regarding - already mentioned - 3,000. m2. I have already pointed this out to Minister Jurgiel, who is also a surveyor, that he should read the law - not only one thing but the whole thing. Change your lawyers, because I think in two months - this bill works about two months - we will meet and you will improve what we have already talked about - that is, the 3,000. m2. It's just that it's too bad for people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a pity for people, farmers who stand in the field today and can't do anything with their land, with their property.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u536	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u537	Listen to people and act faster, don't break the law. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u538	Now the question is asked by Mrs Dorota Sunday from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u539	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A question for the Minister. Another negative effect of the rules in force may be compensation claims addressed to the State Treasury, because, as a result of the amendment, a large proportion of the persons who were party to the pre-emptive contracts paid the amounts of advances and had to be waived and entered into certain financial obligations which they could not recover. My question is: Is the Ministry preparing for any claims against the State Treasury? Are you still able to amend this law, say, at second reading or in the Senate enough to secure the possibility of these claims, i.e. to implement the possibility of transposing the law as regards those commitments previously made, on the basis of the previously existing law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u540	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation of the owner of the plot in an area covered by such a form of protection as a national park is not simple. It is simple because the rigors imposed on the principles of the management of these properties by the Nature Conservation Act make the owners often look for such an option, such a solution to their situation that they report to the park directors by proposing to purchase. On the other hand, park managers are responsible for regulating the legal status of the property. It is obvious that such situations are many, there are special programs funded by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to regulate the legal status of the property in the areas of national parks. Hence the question, which may be rhetorical, but I will ask it to the Member of the applicant's representative. Couldn't you have responded? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and not make an appropriate adjustment to make this situation... [[But it is already complex, you need to be aware, Member.]] ...to make it easier and easier by checking... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u542	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u543	I would be obliged if the Members of the opposition did not take my word for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u544	The question is now asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u545	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'd like to finish my thought.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u546	But you have already run out of time, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u547	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[There's already been an amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u548	Thank you very much. [[You have to listen to the envoy from your club.]] [[Stupid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u549	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With all due respect, Minister, it's only been two months. Two months, and already an amendment - it is good that this amendment of the Sejm accepts, because it needs to be fixed, but, Minister, I ask you to admit one thing: this is not about amendments, etc., this is about something completely different. You should admit that the Law and Justice are building a completely different country - a country where private property interferes. That's how you interfered in the private market... [[Mr. President, you're delusional.]] [[You're full of shit.]] ...something the state didn't say before the election. And I am not surprised that only now will it be the turn for these actual transactions - so far these transactions are not, they will only happen - which will affect the farmer, he will only feel on his own, what it means to interfere in the market, the free market. Biggest mistake. [[♪ The bell ♪]] our Parliament, is interfering in free market laws, and time will show that this bill will just...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u550	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u551	...castrated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Time's up, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u552	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you whether this law fulfils its main task, namely to protect the Polish land, and whether this correction of failure, as one of the Members has said, is not a coincidence, Mr applicant, the record taken from the predecessors of the law that you introduced in August 2015. [[I have already explained this to you, Member, you should have listened.]] But I will say this: you have probably built one that only existed on paper, theoretically, and we are building a good, strong state and protecting the Polish land. [[Great.]] Thank you very much for your very quick legislation. [[You're all saying the wrong law, and you're changing it yourself.]] We can admit mistakes, and in this respect we seal this record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u553	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Zbigniew Babalski, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u554	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I congratulate you on your condition because it's time. 24, and the hyperactivity of some of you is. With all due respect, actually, your condition is good. [[Because we're so worried about the Polish farmer, Minister.]] I can see that over time this hyperactivity is increasing even more. [[There's energy.]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I humbly accept all these comments. Some are very mean, and I don't think they're necessary, but they'll just be factual. And let's save the malice while we're talking in the cockroaches. [[The other way around.]] I think it's gonna look a lot more handy out there than it is here in the O.R. I would like to tell you, first of all, by answering the question that you have asked, the last one asking. Yes, this law is fulfilling its purpose, as you have noticed today, practically outside of this one obstacle, a very important obstacle that affected a large group of people. In my practice - and I'm on duty, I try to get on duty once a week, he comes to me from 15 to... lately I've had 46 people on duty - I haven't met the criticism of this law from farmers, and most of the time farmers come to me. [[And the farmers, too. $3,000. meters.]] They come with other problems, but that doesn't mean there's no problem. There it is. In this connection, I repeat once again: the objective that we have assumed has been achieved by this law. Are we going to update it? If we have to, we'll be updating, because that's why we're here to help people, not disturb them. But I want to give you one example, because I was also corresponding with people who were on Facebook, I talked to them, I called them, I had proof of that, so I didn't run away from the problem. [[But we do.]] I would like to mention to you, despite the late hours, such an example. I will not quote, although this gentleman authorized me to even give his name, plot number, house he wanted to buy, and read what he wrote to me here: On 20 April 2016 we applied for a mortgage to buy and renovate a house in a bank - I will not replace the bank so as not to spoil his opinion in any way - along with a complete set of necessary documents concerning the property required by the bank. Unfortunately, despite having a credit facility twice the credit level and having obtained the agreement to grant the credit on 30 May, the bank finally rejected our request, justifying it as follows - it is fattened that I do not guess - that the risks of the transaction in this case are linked to unacceptable collateral due to the lack of a local collateral plan... [[Management.]] ...the spatial development and the fact that, according to the extract from the land register, the property in question is partly intended for the role. The plot must be treated as agricultural property and, in view of the above, the property in question cannot constitute a collateral for the credit. [[But you're very right.]] And then what this citizen wanted to buy. On 14 December 2007, the residential building was put into service in accordance with the certificate - here are the data, etc. The District Construction Supervision Department in Lębork, just to finish. The property has all media and direct access to the municipal road, and neighboring plots are built with residential buildings. In addition, the house on the twin plot in the immediate vicinity is connected by a wall with our house, because it is a so-called building. A twin. The neighboring plot - the number is given - is marked in the perpetual book as B: residential areas. I'm giving you a concrete example. Isn't that enough? He goes on to say that the amount of credit we requested for the purchase and renovation of this house was 370 thousand. zł... [[But that's not the point.]] ...instead of the estimated real estate operation by the valuer amounted to 430 thousand. zł. [[But you know, Minister, what's the problem?]] Don't interrupt. I'm giving a simple example of how a bank that had more collateral than a expected loan behaved at a time like this... [[That's not the point.]] ...on which the borrower came forward. [[But, Minister, that's not the point.]] As such situations were repeated... [[That's not the point.]] Please let me finish. So since these situations have been repeated, I've asked for a relationship... [[That person was a farmer?]] Mr. Marshal, would you mind if I asked my colleague not to interrupt and disturb me? [[That's the problem.]] I asked for a meeting of representatives of Polish banks. To this group I invited the National Notarial Council, the Polish Federation of Associations of Property Experts, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, we were of course from the Ministry of Agriculture and representatives of the Agricultural Property Agency. There were three such meetings. To my simple question, why didn't you respond to this provision on the value of agricultural property of August 2015, I didn't get an answer. On the other hand, I received a reply that the first official response of the banks took place on 11 May, giving appropriate instructions on how to proceed with the granting of loans if the property is agricultural. We've got some things straightened out, but I'm not meeting them to explain, just to solve the problem. Hence, they asked for it. Today, some of you here in this courtroom were at a committee meeting. You have heard the position of Vice President of the Polish Bank Association. This problem is removed. [[One more change.]] In this way, the whole operation, when it comes to credit, will be triggered. Actually, it's already started. You don't have a representative, Mrs. Modern, who was talking about economic paralysis in the light of this bill. spospolita, which is not very favorable to the Law and Justice... I recommend the article, the publication of the Rzeczpospolita of 30 June 2016, can be reached, that was 4 and 5 days ago. [[It's six.]] Title: In the land market without revelation, without revolution. After the entry into force of the abovementioned Decision, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law that we are talking about now is not lacking in investment land, demand is rational, dependent on location and available technical and social infrastructure - I simply quote what is. Therefore, do not scare the country of Poles so much. [[No, we're telling you what's going on.]] I repeat, the obstacle... [[You've been here since you were scared.]] What's the matter, buddy? I don't understand. The obstacle that was the most important and the most serious is removed. I am very pleased that practically all clubs want to support this amendment, to remove this obstacle. I repeat, you're asking if we're going to change it, or there's a question of 0.3. [[What about the claims?]] Here was the application for 0.5. Why not 0.6, not 0.7, not 0.8? I'll tell you why. I get a proposal from some Members every now and then: change it to 0.8. Everyone has their own individual case, for God's sake. This is a situation that when we touch 0,3, people already write to me: Why not? 0.4? 'Cause we've got a lot like that, too. Why not 0.6? We just have to stick to something. [[But there's already a law in place.]] Target, I repeat, has been achieved. Private property. That we're damaging private property... No, it's okay. We protect the Polish agricultural land. Those were the assumptions. [[Claims.]] Poland's agricultural land is intended to produce Polish healthy food. And we will consistently guard that. [[And that's why you're returning it to the woods?]] [[Claims, claims.]] I have recently read it in one of the journals - I also have it here, I can give you - a guide on what needs to be done to make claims against the Treasury. I suspect you've read this article, too, I guess, and that's why that question came up here. [[No.]] In fact, one newspaper wrote: The State Treasury may have negative consequences and we give you what you should do to act against the State Treasury with claims. We are also prepared for such a variant that there may be such cases. We're prepared, we'll try to repel it. Previous contracts. Will they be honored? [[Pre-emptive.]] Madam President, I am afraid of one thing: that pre-emptive agreements which are signed without notarial glitch may be anti-dating. There may be a business that we can allow if we do what you're talking about. Once again, thank you very much for this discussion, for your questions and for making a declaration that you will support these changes. [[And why these State Forests? Why pass it on to the woods? How are farmers to serve?]] Excuse me, Marshal, for extending. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u555	Thank you, Minister. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Zbigniew Babalski: I did not address anyone by name, Marshal.]] Good. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I will explain a few things, because here there were very often accusations that Law and Justice, the majority of the government reject the opposition's proposals. Here we are talking about two projects that were modern projects and the Civic Platform. To clarify, our amendment is a further amendment... [[One.]] ...because Modern offered 150% The value of the plot, the Civic Platform - 200%, and we say that it's the bank and the borrower that are from determining the value, and at that value... That is why we voted against your proposals because these proposals are wrong. [[But before that, we said not to touch it, sir.]] You say you spoke earlier. You can't fool each other, because it's yours, in your project that you proposed... You're gonna say it's been said again, but you have to be honest and you have to tell the truth. You're the ones who offered the mortgage record, we're the ones who prescribed it. We made a mistake and we admit it. Really with all our differences - because we have these differences, opposition, coalition - let's stand in the truth. We rewrite it, we make a mistake, and we fix it fast, because we're here for people, not for the opposition, not for ourselves. We're for people, that's why we fix it very quickly. [[We're in favour, we're in favour.]] As I listened to the speakers of the opposition Members today: Platforms and PSLs, I wondered why you have not proposed a good bill for eight years. For eight years, there's been no good law protecting our value as the earth. The farmers had to leave... [[Well, there was a bill, and you suspended it.]] Mr. Marshal... [[She was supposed to come in on January 1, 2016, and you blew her up into space.]] There is a procedure at the end of the sitting: statements. Please, sir, you can come out and say as much as you want in your statement... [[Don't teach me. He's telling the truth.]] ...but if there's an appearance, please don't disturb it, it's uncultural. I have a request that we don't bother each other. [[Tell me the truth. There was supposed to be a bill on January 1st.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u557	Mr President, please do not disturb me. [[Excuse me, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u558	Farmers had to go out on the street, green town to establish, protest, defend Polish land, force the coalition to propose a bill to secure Polish land - what is most important. And you didn't. At the last minute, a bill was written, on the knee, a bad bill. Mr Kasprzak says it is not the opposition's fault, it is not the opposition's fault for the first time. If we were to reach out to this PO-PSL law, what do we read? We read that agricultural land can only be bought by a neighbor and agency, no one else. Now you're saying our bill is bad, since yours was the only one who could buy this land. That was a bad bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying this to you: our better, your worse. I really enjoyed the speech by the president, Jarosław Sachaika, who said: the most important thing is the common good. If we approach everyone sitting in this room like this, even if there are mistakes, we will fix them for the common good. We can really argue a lot of things, but there are things in the nation, in the holy state - the land... [[But we do.]] ...is sacred, and if we're using this sanctity to fight politically, then there's something I don't understand. So where's the common good? [[But we've been doing this for eight years.]] We're here to defend Polish soil. If we are Poles and also members of the Polish parliament, what is more important than defending the Polish land. Now we're fighting, you guys throw that kind of bullshit at me sometimes. When I listen to all of this, I wonder where is the common good in your statements. As regards Mr Aichler's question, Law and Justice are building another country. Yeah, we build a different country, we build different rules. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it has never happened so that after less than 2 months of operation of the Sejm Act, it proposes to discuss and inform the Minister how the Act works. Surveillance. It's never happened before. We want this bill to be good. We want to monitor this bill. We want to ask the Minister what are the problems, what are the problems people report to the Ministry, or to our offices, and correct this bill. Yeah, we're building another country. We are building a dialogue and we are also discussing with the opposition. [[You're taking over.]] We were also talking about the matter of proceeding on this bill, that there were amendments. There were amendments because we listened to farmers, we listened to notaries, we listened to the opposition to make a good bill. [[In the procession.]] We know that this is a difficult law, dear countries, it is a difficult law. The last question that Mrs Ruseck asked. Has the bill fulfilled its purpose? This is the most important thing in all this: we have secured our Polish land from speculators and through the left turn. That was the biggest target. Why do farmers go out on the streets and protest? Why was there a green town? Because the farmers saw... [[And the farmer's boss?]] ...that Polish land was sold by so-called. Poles for foreigners. That was the most important goal. If you do not understand this, then I am surprised, really, that we are in the Polish Parliament and should be in this national interest, over holiness together... [[You're just stealing away.]] We can fight over other things, but not these. Mr Marshal, thank you very much, and to the dear Members who have tried to interrupt, I will see you at the committee meeting today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, tonight, at the time. 9.30 a.m.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u559	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee of John Duda. [[What mode is he in?]] [[As rapporteur. He has the right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u560	Is everything okay now? Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We spent many, many hours on the bill, and if we recreated everything we said, it was sometimes a cacophony of sounds, just like it was just here. The fact is that the report is very short, and perhaps it is good that it is short, but it would be worth considering the things we are saying. Member of my beloved Małopolska. We make a good law as a PiS, and we correct it to make it even better, to make it very good. [[But that is not what the rapporteur is talking about.]] Mr President, I know that you are an arbiter, and you would like to be an arbiter in everything. [[No, absolutely, I'm not usurping myself, I just have a little longer internship.]] Are we gonna have a discussion? The problem is that we don't hear ourselves at all, that the rapporteur says his own thing, and everyone hears what he wants to hear. [[The rapporteur says what was on the committee.]] If I wanted to tell you everything that was on the committee, we'd be here by morning, and then maybe we'd understand each other. That's really it, sir. I am not saying anything else, but maybe because there is paralysis in the countryside, I understand that after the adoption of this amendment, we will wake up tomorrow in an economic boom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's for sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u561	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u562	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to speak as corrected, I asked for the floor, it is Mr Telus's speech. I would like to make it clear, my fellow Member, on what basis, on what data do you say... about the assassination of Polish land as the basis of this decision to harness private recipients, private land owners? Statistically, no. Second thing. On what basis are you saying that this bill is already a success? After all, you know yourself, a colleague knows that land circulation among individual farmers is a very slow turnover. I'm gonna take the risk of talking about whether this bill is acceptable or not, it takes at least two years. If we're talking about the vices in West Pomerania and the farmers' protests that there's been some irregularities there, then I think it's absolutely better, [[♪ The bell ♪]] than to touch those notarial acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u563	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u564	Pick up the land, not raise your hand on private property, that's how I understand it. But in two years, there'll be a great opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u565	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. [[Mr. Marshal, can I correct?]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws (print No 653). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the applicants, I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. The aim of the proposed changes is to improve the energy security of Poland and to organise the fuel market. The aim of the project is also to address the shortcomings and shortcomings of the existing provisions of the Energy Law, which give rise to interpretation doubts or create difficulties in the application of the law. The adoption of the solutions contained in this project will allow for greater transparency in fuel and natural gas markets and will improve the competitiveness and sealing of the concession system and thus reduce the grey zone in liquid fuels. The phenomenon of the grey zone hits the economic development and energy security of Poland, disrupts the proper functioning of the market and hinders equal competition. According to the available data, the scale of the grey zone in Poland in the period 2012 the total consumption of diesel. Our country lost at least PLN 3 and 4 billion for extortion in this area. On a smaller scale, this phenomenon occurs in the area of motor gasoline and LPG. The problem is the unregulated and unregulated supply of fuels mainly from the Kaliningrad region, from the territory of Lithuania, Belarus and Germany. The main areas of the grey fuel market are: extortion of VAT using vanishing entities, sale of fuel oil for propulsion purposes, sale of lubricating oils for propulsion purposes, smuggling of fuel oil. In the case of LPG, the Polish LPG Organization estimates that in the autogas sector alone the phenomenon is so-called. the gray zone is 5.7% total turnover and annual sales of autogas are around 1.9 million tonnes. However, it is difficult to obtain accurate and reliable data here, because some are imported from the east. The main areas of LPG offences concern the use of the difference in LPG taxation for traction and heating purposes, the sale of fuels not meeting the quality requirements and the reporting of LPG re-exports to countries that do not consume significant quantities of LPG. The most important changes proposed in this law and will reduce these phenomena include: sealing the concession system and ensuring real control by the President of the URE, introducing a uniform definition of liquid fuels, sealing the process of the first introduction of liquid fuels into the domestic market, sealing the system of maintaining mandatory natural gas stocks, which will protect the Polish state from circumvention of the tax obligation and protect Polish consumers from interruptions of gas supply. Unfortunately, the current regulation makes it possible to circumvent this obligation, which is why the proposal envisages extending it, while providing for flexibility in the implementation of the gas stock obligation. Other changes in the project, some. The project removes legal barriers to the supply of liquefied gas to the gas terminal in Świnoujście, introduces the supervision of the Minister of Energy of the planned construction or demolition of transmission pipelines and equips the Polish state with tools to effectively resolve conflicts between the owner of the network and the operator on this system. The financial consequences of the Act, approx. PLN 4.5 million, concern posts at the Energy Regulatory Office for carrying out the tasks of the Act, and revenues to the state budget are estimated at PLN few hundred million to PLN few billion. Practice will clearly show the consequences of this bill. In conclusion, the Act will restore mechanisms for fair competition in liquid fuel markets, including natural gas, to increase revenue to the state budget. The Act will also provide greater protection for consumers against unfair market players, make the market more transparent and allow economic operators to verify their counterparties. The law will also eliminate, or at least very much reduce the grey zone and restore the principles of fair competition, increase the energy security of Poland. Therefore, I recommend to the High House that the bill be adopted, and before that I encourage you to work on the substantive work on the draft in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. I would add that the project presented is compatible with EU law. The law on which we will work is consistent is a complement to the solutions contained in the draft law on the amendment of the act on the tax on goods and services in the Senate, since the Sejm adopted this document. And so much justification from the applicants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u567	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, you have the floor of Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice in relation to the amendment of the Energy Law Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, since my previous speaker, the applicant, has discussed the assumptions of this project in quite detail, I will simply limit myself to saying that the economic effects of these solutions will restore mechanisms of fair competition in the liquid fuel and natural gas market in our country and will, of course, result in the fact that those who act legally, pay taxes, excise duties and provide revenue to the state budget will have easier competition and those who do not pay will have to pay. This will therefore certainly benefit from the state budget and the competitiveness of companies. Surely the social impact of these regulations will be to provide greater protection for consumers who, through proper control, will be sure that the quality of fuels, gas and services provided is simply better, more secure and, you can say, guaranteed high quality. Of course, this project involves the elimination or significant reduction of the grey zone, which is already a very important element in our fuel market. This will also enable us to achieve various important objectives for our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, without repeating everything that the applicant has said, as I said, he has quite detailedly discussed the proposals of this law, the Law and Justice Club will support this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u569	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u570	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I had the honour of speaking on behalf of the club about amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, print No. 653. The matter is quite extensive. I'm going to focus on the gas market due to a small amount of time. Minister, when we were working on an amendment to the law that introduced exemptions from gas storage by small companies in 2013, we thought and introduced the possibility to apply a price to less gas than that set by the URE, or finally, which is a fundamental thing, we introduced a gas exchange. We have done something that is very important because we have led to the diversification of the gas market. The monopoly position PGNiG had dropped. These are real numbers that we're seeing on the market right now. Smaller companies with up to 100,000. customers, 100 million m3 of gas per year, started entering the market and more and more. I understand that we did all this - and that was the message then, I think, over the divisions - because we were thinking about it so that the monopoly would not dictate our prices. For us, the most important thing was that the market price was as low as possible. In the meantime, I am afraid that by the amendment you are proposing at the moment, we are going to go backwards, we are going to give back what we took from PGNiG, and we are going to give back what has already become a more diversified price factor. We will cause gas prices to rise by the fact that in the market these small companies will necessarily cease to be predatory companies, their margin will decrease, their profitability will fall. With such difficulty, an alternative market will suddenly become an absent market. PGNiG will necessarily start rebuilding again from a monopoly position, creating a price dictatorship, and this dictation is very negative from the point of view of our presence in the European Union's price list. We have a high wholesale price for gas. You can see that when you want to build a power plant, when you want to build a power plant. The carbon source's coming out. I've been through this in my town. Suddenly it turns out that the gas is so expensive that we can't bet on the gas to put in the heat plant, and at this point, bringing in brown coal is almost unrealistic. So we're gonna make the gas more expensive. B, chemistry, the whole industry, which could import gas from abroad for its own use and could use it, also using this freedom of purchase, will be deprived of that freedom, which will cause the market to reflect again on the price of chemical products. There are great doubts as to whether this will lead to what the rapporteur said, that competitiveness in the market will increase. It seems that it will be the opposite that competitiveness will be reduced and that the competitiveness of our industry will also be limited as a result of too expensive gas for the same products in the European Union. It's dangerous. I understand the gray area, but do gas stores really affect the gray area? It also concerns the lack of an impact assessment, such an in-depth, lack of transitional provisions for the implementation of the Article. 3 of the bill, as well as a fatal solution for eliminating the possibility of gas supply - just what I said - by companies for purposes other than further resale and for their own use. So we're going to be wondering, we're going to be working on this bill, but with this great concern, the concern about the market, the concern about the price of gas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and I am concerned about competition on the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u571	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u572	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the fact that, despite this important project, the hall is already empty. This shows how some important things are unnoticed. Well, that's what I'm gonna do. Kukiz-15 - constructive opposition - understands that the government of the Republic of Poland has undertaken a mission to organize the market for liquid fuels and gas. And such intentions should be applauded. Building the position of the Polish state by ensuring energy security, we also support stocks. Unfortunately, not everything is so perfect. Law and Justice parliamentary projects, such as RES parliamentary projects, where there were 100 amendments, have this to do with each other, that's what it looks like. I'm afraid the quantity won't translate into quality either, that there'll be a dozen more on the committee... Oh, please, even the Member is showing how much it is. [[Voice from the room: It's a bill for now.]] So it would be very good for this fact, however, that in the case of such an important law such a law should take under its wing the Ministry of Energy and, however, it would be done in a more appropriate way for the law in question. We also call on the political parties, the opposition parties, not to separate themselves, but to support the government and the Members who have submitted such a proposal in the work on this law. We are aware that the Polish State's possession of mandatory stocks of gas, oil and fuel makes sense, but at what and at whose expense? Here we hear: 4.5 million PLN of additional costs. [[Voice from the hall: But influence - billions.]] Yes, but we also need to consider the operational costs of such solutions. It has to be done rationally. Of course, the chances of domestic entrepreneurs, however, should be evened out against the background that, so to speak, companies that trade, operate gas on the market and are not obliged to do such things. [[Voice from the room: It's possible they'll be here now.]] And that needs to be sorted out as much as possible. I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, print No. 653. The authors of the project introduced many new definitions into the law, such as liquid fuel infrastructure, storage facilities, container station, modified production and production. For what purpose does the energy company in charge of the storage, handling, transfer or distribution of liquid fuels maintain a list of energy companies involved in the production, marketing, including trade with foreign liquid fuels, importing entities or end-users of liquid fuels that I have already mentioned, to which they provide services according to the scope of their activities? Does this law allow the transfer of liquid fuels through installations within the country? Is the ad hoc storage of liquid fuels using container stations used at transhipment terminals for the use of fuel for filling, e.g. Transposable mobile devices, will they still be possible? So, yes, we are in favour of this project, however, directing to further work in the parliamentary committees, and I think that with consensus and agreement of all the groups for the benefit of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u573	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u574	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws, print No. 653. I will also concentrate on the gas market, because these are the most important changes that we find here. The novel means significant changes to the Wrestling Act. The project extends the obligation of the addressees to hold mandatory gas stocks and introduces a new form of implementation of this obligation, so-called. Ticket agreement. The existing provisions of the current law grant exemptions from the obligation to hold these stocks to those energy companies whose number of customers is not more than 100,000. and whose gas imports do not exceed 100 million m3 per year. I would like to remind you that the Minister of Energy is making such redundancies, now through an administrative decision. According to the draft amendment, the obligation to hold stocks will be absolute and will burden all market participants. That's not gonna be the way to get fired anymore. This will clearly impact on those smaller entrepreneurs for which it will be a heavy financial burden, but on the other hand I also understand the requirements or circumstances that are related to the situation on the gas market today, and the requirements related to the energy security of the state. I hope we can talk about this on the committee. Another key change is the introduction of this ticket service, i.e. the possibility of commissioning on the basis of a contract for the maintenance of stocks to another energy undertaking. And here there is some doubt, because the regulation of this law is slightly different from the regulation of liquid fuels. With regard to fuels, it was possible for such a storage service to be commissioned by an undertaking which provides such services. Here we give up this possibility and it is unclear to me, although I can guess what the purpose of such regulation is. The draft amendment may also raise doubts as to the ownership of mandatory stocks of natural gas. In the case of mandatory oil stocks and fuels, we have no doubt about that. This is where the legislator didn't settle it. I think that this issue will need to be clarified in committee work, because it is not clear whether this gas is owned by the company, the one that brings the gas, or the one that stores it or which provides the ticket service. The draft contains transitional provisions which may interfere with the powers of energy undertakings already acquired. In accordance with the project initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the amendment to the stock-holding exemption procedure, the exemptions already granted will expire on 30 September 2017. We are in favour of directing this project to committee and work so as to eliminate these doubts, these gaps, which we find here in the course of this work. There's a little more of them, I've only focused on the most important ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u575	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u576	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say this: Polish People's Party is behind the sealing of the fuel market, because this is very important for our economy. Honesty in the economic system, and especially in the fuel market, is very important and important, because these are huge losses and a difficult market to manage. Here you have to make every effort to reduce losses and dishonesty - to limit, because eliminating to the end is probably impossible, although it would be perfect. On the other hand, the presented project, I fear, will be another project written in a sloppy way. Why? I will use that word, although I rarely use it: because it is written on my knee. There is something to be said for Members, and we have an example of the last of the various projects, that there is a new law in the committees. This is a very bad solution, because there is no way to carry out an in-depth analysis. On the basis of throw-ins and amendments to be tabled, the law arises. Secondly, consultations and inter-ministerial and social ones are avoided, because there are not only bad companies, bad companies, fraudsters, but there are also good companies, and they should be asked how they see this as a good solution. I am afraid that too much burden on these administrative activities - I will no longer go into details, it was mentioned - it may cause a breach of competition, but not only in the bad ones, because we want to eliminate, but also in the good, honest entrepreneurs, who are a significant part of the market and who may disappear as a result of the additional burdens that we will introduce to them somewhere, which would also be detrimental - to monopolising the gas and liquid fuels market, because this has its effects. You have to process the bill, but you have to do everything you can to make it a good project, because we should all care about it. Therefore, the Polish People's Party is in favour of further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u577	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the proposal for a parliamentary bill amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. The aim of the applicants was to implement legislative changes implementing a number of systemic changes in the regulation of the fuel and natural gas market, which concern the fuel market institutions. Their common denominator was to be to organise and introduce greater transparency in the markets. The proposed changes include: system-ordering of the liquid fuel market; increasing State control over the oil and fuel intervention stock system; ordering the natural gas market; extending the obligation to maintain mandatory natural gas stocks and introducing a new legal form for the implementation of this obligation through the so-called "market." a ticket agreement; the elimination of shortcomings and shortcomings in the legislation in force in the field of liquid fuels and natural gas, which raise interpretation doubts or create difficulties in the application of the law. The High House processes a document to which many technical issues have been inserted, which should be regulated at the level of standardisation organisations, with specialised expert teams, or by the order of the competent minister. Pathological phenomena in the liquid fuel market are dynamic. Fuel trafficking offences are taking new forms, and the continuing administrative regulation of this market even encourages operators to engage in illegal activities. The aim of the projectors was to create an administrative framework for market entry and functioning in order to maximise the execution of all public-law obligations. The purpose of amending the Act, which was to system-order the liquid fuel market, to increase State control over the system of intervention stocks of oil and fuels, to organise the natural gas market, to extend the obligation to maintain mandatory stocks of natural gas and to introduce a new legal form for the implementation of this obligation, so-called. a ticket agreement, the elimination of shortcomings and shortcomings in the legislation in force in the field of liquid fuels and natural gas, which give rise to interpretation doubts, or cause difficulties in the application of the law - it seems that has not been achieved. The excess regulation contained in the bill does not make the fuel market more transparent and will not help economic operators verify their counterparties. The removal of the shadow economy and the restoration of the principles of fair business is done through the implementation of advanced technologies to prosecute such crimes, not the creation of a statutory umbrella for various legal combinations. The proposed law provides for a number of detailed changes to existing legal institutions with difficult to predict effects. Excessive regulation limits the ability of the executive authorities of the State to act. At the same time, it should be noted that according to the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, the draft art. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b (1) of the Energy Law is incompatible with Article. 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Members of the Free and Solidarni Circle ask that the bill be referred to the Parliamentary Committee for further work to clarify its provisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u579	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor. Question time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for the rapporteur. He was talking about the gray area, and it's okay to seal it as much as possible, but the question is about the specific connection between the elimination of the exemption from storage by small companies and VAT fraud. How is this grey zone shaped specifically in this combination: eliminating the exemption from storage obligations, i.e. introducing a storage obligation, and a grey zone? How's it look?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u581	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, a little detail, please answer. Why didn't the designers anticipate the transhipment of liquid and gaseous fuels as a service of loading or unloading chemical container tanks, ADR, RID, in short, dangerous substances? Is this an intentional reduction in services, intermodal opportunities for carriers and logistics operators, customers or transport services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u583	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u584	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Do you not fear that competition will be reduced through additional burdens due to the imposition of additional obligations on distributors, and this will not further increase the price of liquid or gaseous fuels, because the lack of competition and additional burdens can cause this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u585	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u586	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The proposed changes include ordering the market for liquid fuels, natural gas and stock control. Currently, companies operating on the Polish market have nearly 10 thousand. various concessions awarded on the basis of a number of legal acts without consistent market control, which encouraged operators to act illegally, which in turn resulted in losses to the state budget and to businesses operating in the Led. Minister, does the government provide for the conduct or assessment of losses in this respect for businesses legally operating and for the state budget over the past few years? Will the guilty of negligence be held accountable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u587	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I'd like to get back to the two points I was talking about during the club appearance, to those two doubts. Why can't a gas ticket service be provided by companies that operate in the field of storage? What's the reason? If you don't mind, Minister, please explain. Second line. How is it with the property of this gas that will be stored? What is the applicant's intention? I understand that the project was created at the Ministry of Energy, so it would probably be appropriate for the Minister to address these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u589	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. No. In that case, I would ask the representative of the Members of the applicants of Mr Maciej Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u590	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the individual questions, I'll start from the end. The Member asked about ticket ownership and storage fuel. It's a simple rule. If there is a ticket service, the property belongs to the warehousekeeper if the storage service is provided shall be the one on which the storage obligation applies. This is the first case. Now it's a basic case, a case that seems to have gone through in all the speeches, so-called. the concern for a level playing field to be affected by the fact that all gas players will be required to maintain stocks in a proportionate manner. Ladies and gentlemen, today's situation is as follows. There are some entities in the market, and the obligation to maintain stocks, to ensure the energy security of Poland rests only on PGNiG. And so PGNiG has research and development, upstream, is bound by a Jamaican contract, has to reserve capacity at the terminal in Świnoujście. This causes very high asymmetry in responsibilities and thus distorts competitiveness in this market, because the other players do not have these obligations. PGNiG is also obliged to maintain stocks. I already told you about the ticket service and the warehouse property. The Member asked about VAT fraud and the obligation to store. These are different things. As far as VAT fraud is concerned, I was talking about disappearing companies, and I just introduced the obligation to store. So these are two different topics. Transhipment of liquid fuels, intermodal transport. I don't think you drive liquid intermodal fuels, there's no such practice. And the ticket service can, of course, be provided by warehousekeepers. This is the case with liquid fuels, oil, so warehousekeepers can provide such a service. This range of options has been introduced so that the storage obligation can be as flexible as possible, adapted to the capacity of those who will be required to store. [[It doesn't come from the bill, but...]] I think I answered all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u591	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Energy Law and certain other laws contained in print No 653, to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 5 July this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor. There's no envoy. Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I strongly believe that 2017 should be called the Year of Tadeusz Kościuszko. It is as great as it is unappreciated at the same time. Although it is on Wawel, it is too little elevated to the role of a symbol in the capital. In my opinion, we should even think about his monument standing here, in Warsaw, on the Royal Route. Such monuments exist in many American cities, e.g. West Point Military College. In my opinion, Tadeusz Kościuszka can be boldly placed in one line with Bolesław Krzywousty, Bolesław Chrobry or Jan III Sobieski, i.e. in the pantheon of great Poles. He was a man from the upbuilding Polish nation, endowed with great charisma and at the same time with leadership qualities. He made the peasants aware that they were citizens. He was a huge patriot and gave up everything for Poland. Such a worthy figure deserves to be named after him in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u593	Thank you very much. Mr Kurzepa, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, during the meeting of the Sejm, we were faced with a special situation, because almost on the eve of the NATO Summit - events which everyone describes as crucial for continental security, but also our national - opposition puts forward a motion for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Defence in the government of the country, who hosts this summit. Let me first analyze this event with you as far as your position is concerned. The point concerns the dismissal of the constitutional minister in the Ministry of National Defence, the minister who, by nature, beside the President of the Republic of Poland, becomes the most important link in his efforts to ensure that the summit of the states of the North Atlantic Pact, NATO brings to the country as many benefits and solutions as possible to strengthen our security and to pursue the military-political interests of Poland. Therefore, the perception of this figure, the Minister of National Defence and his position on the political chessboard in our country are certainly translated into how it is perceived by those who come to Poland, because they will weigh its importance and place in the government hierarchy, recognizing it as a blot or an asset ace, referring to the bridge nomenclature. This, in turn, places it in a number of forms of significant versus insignificant in the course of the NATO Summit. If he is nothing in his own country, should we hope that he will become something in NATO? In addition, in the nature of political life, there is a certain specificity related to pragmatic and symbolic aspects. It is pragmatic that when we become a leader, for example. the region of Central and Eastern Europe, all internal policy environments of the country worked for this external leadership. It is in the interests of the state and the nation in the sense of pure, pure, without a doubt. The symbolic dimension is the context in which Poles form their formations in order to play as much as possible for their reasons, to give a signal to the world in the image, white propaganda sense: this is a common position, they speak in matters of the security of their homeland with one voice. It is also necessary to draw attention to the personal dimension of this political shortcoming. In fact, Mr. Antoni Macierewicz has been struck, who over the past many years symbolizes the fight against the commune, the post-communion, the interests of our homeland and its obvious enemies. Mr. Anthony's biography defends itself, his actions speak, his patriotism is the highest attempt. No wonder, then, that those who want to knowingly or manipulate, lower the position of Poland, weaken it, act against it and hit one of its strongest figures. Sometimes it happens that the life of the individual is intertwined firmly, as in the bloodstream, with the life of the nation. By hitting one another, he wants to weaken the other, weakening the other, the zeal of the defender of the first is intensified. That's the way it is now. Who are you hitting, politicians? You're hitting Poland, and you're hitting her son. And it is not lawful to do so, and it is not acceptable to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u595	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u596	Dear Marshal, Especially High Izbo! In Prostki in Warmia and Mazury on 3 July 2016 in the third installment of XVIII Prostek Days on the 360th anniversary of the Battle of Prostki the streets of the city marched Polish and Swedish troops to stage this battle in nearby meadows. The main hero in the Battle of Prostki was the captain of the field of Lithuanian Vincent Alexander Korwin Gosiewski coat of arms Śledowron. Wincenty Gosiewski from the award of the Polish Crown was the chief of the Lithuanian field, the sub-prisoner of the great Lithuanian, the great Lithuanian writer, the general of the Lithuanian army, the stool of the great Lithuanian, the punish governor and the marquee governor. Wincenty Gosiewski graduated from the Vilnius Academy and also studied in Vienna, Padua and Rome. He was a marshal of the Ordinary Seym here in the capital, in Warsaw. Gosievski was a great military leader and diplomat. Before the Battle of the Prosts, Vincent Gosiewski was imprisoned for patriotism in Kiejdany by the traitor of Poland Janusz Radziwiłł, by whom he was imprisoned in Kiejdany, later transferred to the King. In the spring of 1656 the captain of Gosiewiski escaped from captivity to Lithuania, where he organized several flags in a short time at his own expense. By fighting the Swedish forces, he reached Warsaw. In accordance with the will of the king of Poland, the captain Vincent Gosiewiski moved with his banners to Prussia and Lithuania. In the first days of October 1656 the captain crossed with his army through Narew in Wiźno or Lomza and moved quickly towards Ełk. General Jerzy Fryderyk Waldeck, commander of the Swedish-Brandenburg army, Bogusław Radziwiłł and his troops and Prussian troops, as well as the upcoming major Swedish and Brandenburg troops, were the opponents of Wincent Alexander Korwin Gosiewski in the Battle of Prostki. Enemy armies are well-armed Swedish troops, as well as Brandenburg and treasonous, mainly Prussian, under the leadership of Bogusław Radziwiłł, who was taken prisoner by Gosiewski under the Prostki. The enemy's armies totaled over 20,000. People. The forces of the field captain of the Lithuanian Vincent Gosiewski totaled only over 12 thousand. People. There were over 2,000 in his army. Tatars. The remaining part of the Gosiewski army is the Lithuanian army, the overcrowded coroner's troops and so-called. common movement. On October 8, 1656, under the Prostki of Gosiewiski, he smashed the enemy. It is worth mentioning that in this battle the Swedish troops lost 5,000. the people, and the Polish army only 200 and 250 soldiers. For the Swedish side, this meant a loss of 75% the state of the army of Karol Gustav X in Poland. In the extremely difficult situation of Poland, the victory under Prostków was a breakthrough event, which in the future resulted in the withdrawal of Swedes from our country. The screening in Prostki in 2016 was carried out when the village was held: Mirosław Orłowski, Paweł Ratkiewicz, Rafał Wilczewski, Wiesław Eugeniusz Karwowski, Krzysztof Borkowski, Hanna Frąckiewicz, Anna Elżbieta Kacprowska, Mariusz Karwowski, Jolanta Komosinska, Krzysztof Rogiński, Małgorzata Ewa Wojciechowska, Kamil Oddowski, Zdzisław Siedlecki, Mariola Barbara Sikorska, Henryk Strojecki, Wojciech Wnętkowski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not only Warmia and Mazury, but also visitors from all over the country, as well as parliamentarians: Kopiczko, Kossakowski and me. There were also guests from Lithuania, Belarus and other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u597	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u598	From this place I very much wanted to thank the organizers and participants of the stage of the Battle of Prostki, a beautiful celebration, and to thank first and foremost for the fact that we are together cultivating national traditions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u599	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u600	Hetman Vincenty Gosiewski and his soldiers are proud of Polish weapons. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u601	Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u602	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a special anniversary - even 70 years ago, the Council of Ministers decreed the Central Office for Press Control, Publications and Shows, i.e. censorship. The very fact that such an office was set up was in conflict with the Constitution of the Republic, which guaranteed, as today, freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I think it is worth mentioning this special anniversary to reflect on the dimension of freedom of expression in modern media - in 26 years after the abolition of preventive censorship. The fact seems to be that, although in another dimension, censorship is reborn. After all, the so-called "censorship" is a form of censorship. administrators within electronic media, in particular on social networks. The role of censorship is growing in the sense of identifying hate speech, so that many groups and environments even try to gag their mouths to all their potential critics. Let us consider whether today, by chance, the role of the former censorship is not taken over by media owners, who, by offering views in line with their own beliefs, make journalists wishing to maintain their positions not only ignore the silence of certain matters, but move towards manipulation, e.g. Interviews. Similarly, economic conditions make it impossible for many people in our homeland to reach certain ideas, ideas, or even information. Let us also consider the question of political correctness or the phenomenon of heyth - whether they are not a restriction of freedom of expression. I think today's anniversary is a good opportunity for each of us to think about what we can do for the actual elimination of all forms of censorship. Does he not self-censor himself, and maybe even by his actions he increases negative censorship trends, even by abusing accusations of hate speech and not seeing it in his own statements. Let this also be an opportunity to appeal for the substance of the discussion so that the wording ad personam never obscures, does not replace constructive criticism of a particular solution or project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u603	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u604	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! From 22 to 24 July there will be a Royal Singing in Tykocin. Tykocin is a pearl of Baroque in the crown of Podlasie. It's a quiet and vibrant little town stretching on the left bank of Narva. This is the place where he survived the image of the former Polish settlement bearing in its urban and architectural form the legacy of previous epochs. The city acquired city rights in 1425, after 100 years of power of the Lithuanian family Gasztołd. It was handed over to King Zygmunt the Old in 1542. By the resolution of the General Seym in Warsaw in 1661 Tykocin and Tykocin's goods received for the hereditary property of Stefan Czarniecki, after which the Tykocin succession came to the Branicki family. In the 19th century, the next heirs of Tykocin were Potocki and Roscrowski. During the partitions the city was initially under the power of Prussia. In 1807 it was covered by the borders of the Duchy of Warsaw, and since 1815 it belonged to the Kingdom of Poland. After World War II, the Jewish population and Polish intelligence were seriously destroyed and destroyed by the Nazis and lost their city rights, becoming a settlement. Urban rights were recovered in 1993. The charm of this city and its unique history made in 2013 radio paths brought Radio Hope to Tykocin. Radio Hope has always accompanied its listeners both during hard work and during rest. For a proper radio station, she wanted to invite you to a holiday together in a good mood. And it is this Tykocin village so charmed that in the very centre of the holiday, Radio Hope invites you to participate in the Royal Singing - a festival that has for several years gathered lovers of moving music and beautiful singing in the walls of the Alumnate and the Tykocin parish church. ♪ And in all this ♪ They are supported very strongly by the hosts of this place and by the friends of artists, who perform on the most important theatre and opera boards in Poland and abroad. The organizers strongly believe that the Tykocin hospitality, the undisputed historical and natural values of the region and the deep artistic experience will make the words written in the Baroque font Tykocin - Royal Singing appear forever on the map of the country's holiday meetings. On behalf of the organizers, I invite you to the Royal Singing in Tykocin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u605	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to say a few words about the holiday that was celebrated not so long ago in Opole. On 30 June 2016 soldiers, army workers, invited guests and residents of Opole celebrated the 10th Festival together in Opole. The Opole Logistics Brigade. Col. Peter Wysocki. This year the Opole unit celebrated the 17th anniversary of its existence. Col. Słodczyk reminded guests of the achievements of the Opole unit gathered in the appeal square. Since the beginning of existence, i.e. since 1999, soldiers 10. The Opole Logistics Brigade carried out missions difficult and dangerous. 10. During its existence, the Opolskie Logistics Brigade carried out military activities. She often paved the way for other Polish soldiers who carried out tasks on the terrain we prepared. She began with a mission in Kosovo, via Lebanon, Syria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Iraq, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Chad, the Central Republic of Africa and Mali. She provided assistance to the victims of the earthquake in Pakistan and secured the Olympic Games in Greece. In Afghanistan, soldiers have been present since 2002, where they have also participated in missions and are currently securing the Polish military contingent within the Resolute Support mission. Along with the American soldiers from 16. The Logistics Support Brigades prepared for the Anaconda exercises and conducted these exercises with great success. The cooperation was exemplary and the task was carried out at a very high level. During the ceremony a letter of intent was signed on mutual cooperation by the commander 10. The Opole Brigade of Logistics Colonel. Adam Sweets and Commander 16. U.S. Army Logistics Support Brigade, Mrs. Michelle Letcher. This document is a kind of platform for organising joint military exercises in the future. The Opole unit also engaged in humanitarian activities, among others. She supported the Kombatant organizations and social partners and helped them to carry out the celebrations concerning historical events taking place in Opole and in our voivodship. Our soldiers take care of memorial sites and quarters of soldiers who have died fighting for their homeland's independence. During the ceremony, outstanding soldiers received state decorations, resorts, honorary titles and souvenir badges 10. The Opole Logistics Brigade. On the occasion of the holiday of the unit, the appointments for the next military degree were handed over. The President of the Republic of Poland awarded the Military Cross of Merit with the Swords of Major. Krzysztof Antosz and St. Sick. Andrzej Leśniak. The star of Afghanistan was decorated: St. Sick. Mariusz Klimkowicz, st. chor. Robert Michalik, Sergeant. Grzegorz Blicharz, st. ws. Sebastian Jezierski. By decision of the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz of 10 November 2015, the medals were awarded with a bronze medal for the country's defence: Capt. Piotr Załuski, cf. Paweł Adamski, cf. Damian Zok, sick. Łukasz Mustał, st. kpr. Rajmund Snotlout. Minister of National Defence appointed Major: Capt. Waldemar Kowalski and Capt. Edward Nieckar. The ceremony was also an opportunity for representatives of the unions and associations of veterans and veterans, non-governmental organizations and scouts to express their thanks to soldiers supporting their current activities. It's the 10th Festival. The Opole Logistics Brigade took over the honorary patronage of Opole Voivode Adrian Czubak, Marshal of Opole Voivodeship Andrzej Buła and President of Opole Arkadiusz Wiśniewski. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by expressing my gratitude for inviting me to this ceremony. It was a great honor for me to be in your presence, soldiers and officers who are so reliable and professional in their service and make Poland's good name famous all over the world through their activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u607	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u608	Congratulations to the officers and soldiers of honours, and to the families, mothers, wives and children, I always wish their soldiers a happy return home. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u609	Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u610	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On June 28, 1956, in Poznań, a mass performance of workers took place. The cause of the protests was a general dissatisfaction with the situation in the country and region. The direct reason for the strikes, and then the street protests, was the conflict at Hippolite Cegielski's Plant at that time called, otherwise, the Zakłady im. Stalin. Workers demanded better working conditions and safety, better wages. After a fiasco of talks, the protesters went out into the streets, where a crowd of 10,000 gathered. The slogans were chanted: 'We want to live normal', 'We want bread for our children', 'Before with the red bourgeoisie', 'Before with the communists', 'We want Catholic Poland, not the Bolshevik Poland'. The demonstrations turned into riots and street fights. The military, UB and Militia brutally pacified the protest. More than 10,000 were concentrated in Poznań. Soldiers, 359 tanks, 31 armored guns, over 900 cars and motorcycles. The balance of events was tragic. At least 57 people were killed, more than 600 injured. During these events the communist prime minister Cyrankiewicz said: "Every provocator or madman who dares to raise his hand against the people's power, let him be sure that the people's power will cut off his hand." Despite the blockage of information, news of these events spread throughout the country, expressing their support for protesting workers and solidarity with those who faced communist power. Poznań events, more and more often referred to as the Poznań Uprising, occupied by the blood of so many victims did not go to waste, accelerated the process of democratisation in the country, became a milestone towards free Poland. It is difficult to imagine today's Republic without the heritage of Poznań June. In free Poland, every year the celebrations of these dramatic events took place in the atmosphere of dignity, peace and reflection. Unfortunately, this year's anniversary ceremony was used by opponents of the present government as a arena of rudeness, contempt for national values and contempt for heroes of June.56 It appeared through whistles, humming, jamming speeches by so-called. Democrats. This was done by the refusal of the local authorities of Poznań to play the national anthem by the military orchestra. Personally, I cannot understand the intention and find justifications for the President-in-Office of Poznań, Jacek Jaśkowiak, whose sick political procedures led to the desecration of the ceremony taking place with participation, among others. President of Poland Andrzej Duda and President of Hungary Janos Ader. I would like to express my support for Zbigniew Hoffman's statement by the voivode of Wielkopolska, who, when judging these regrettable incidents, said that there was a desecration of the holiday, but above all, to humiliate the heroes of June and their families. He also deeply regretted the insurgents of June and their families, as well as all those who had been affected by the events. The Academic Civic Club also issued a statement on this matter. President Lech Kaczyński in Poznań, stating that it was the President of Poznań who decided to use the anniversary celebrations of Poznan June, 56 for the current political game, to promote the CODE. The statement stated, inter alia, that:: The President of the Republic was treated as an intruder. Not by the Poznań people. By people suffering from hatred for what has for centuries been forming the Polish national identity and the Polish love of freedom, by people who cannot accept the democratic will of the nation and that they have been deprived of the privileges of their own authority. Solidarity with this statement AKO in Poznań was expressed by Academic Civic Clubs. President Lech Kaczyński in Cracow, Gdańsk, Katowice, Lublin, Łódź, Toruń and Warsaw. As a citizen of the proud, free Republic, Member of the Polish Parliament and at the same time member of the Academic Civic Club im. President Lech Kaczyński in Lublin pays tribute to the heroes of June.56 At the same time, I regret and regret that, as the president of the city of Poznań, a place sanctified by the blood of heroes, one can present such an anti-Polish, anti-Polish and shameful attitude. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u611	Thank you. Mrs Teresa Nolas, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u612	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! The Way of Youth! In recent times, following some important social tasks that have been clearly defined, which focus on trying to save historic facilities in the municipality of Izbica in the district of Krasnostawski and beautiful fairytale places, such with the soul, I met many wonderful young people on the common road. By making a good team, they inspire each other to discover the truth about a man who, being great and rich, at the time of the end, gave everything he had for social purposes, including it in the record of his will later called the dreamer's will. And although many surprised him, and especially his family, as Henryk Sienkiewicz himself wrote about him, give God to Poland more such philanthropists. We are talking about Kajetan Kicki, the owner of the goods of Eagles, Sobieszyn, Bizocin and Rzyczka, and the Swords are Galicia, now Ukraine. I took part in this event and I can say with the author of a famous hit: "We are connected by an ordinary day, a common story and memories that we want to keep forever." And in pursuit of them, after these memories on July 3, we visited Sobieszyn, the second part of the estate of Count Kajetan Kicki. It was in Sobieszyn, in the tomb crypt, that we laid a pouch with a lump of his beloved Orloved land. And there we met other great people, so warm that we had the impression that we'd known each other forever. They're like lacmus paper, they've felt the beauty and social ties, and with a flash in their eyes they carry a story into public space about those nights and days. I am talking about Maria and Michale Sokołowski, teachers of the Professional Schools. Kajetan of Count Kicki in Sobieszyn, whom I would like to thank from this place for the great social historical work for memory, place, time and man. For this great work, I thank the school directors, teachers, technical staff, students, these present and graduates, the priest and all the self-cherishers gathered in their own, as our count, the organizers would say. We eagles are happy that Sobieszyn is lucky to have good people. Thank you, too, dear young people from Orlov and surroundings. You amaze me with your maturity and your love for the past and for the future - sometimes you can learn a lot from you. I believe you will serve the region and your country well. I also thank everyone for contacting us on Facebook, for motivation, likes, sharing, because thanks to these links even from the farthest corners of the world we can be together. And finally, I'm going to say how much regret it is for what it can't help itself - the regret of national good, cultural heritage. Therefore, once again, I will allow myself this way, from the Parliamentary Speaker, to appeal to people of good faith to infect others with their kind message of this important initiative for us in search of a good host for the monument. Maybe it'll work eventually. I also appeal, as always, to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage for the initiative of statutory changes and due assessment and consequences for those persons and circumstances that contribute to the destruction of work and the merit of many Polish generations. An example of proper reflection is our film material, to which I encourage and invite you: YouTube website, the title of the Count's wounded heart, and soon the love purse. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u613	Thank you very much. Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u614	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Recalling the notes from Julian Tuwim's notebook, it can be said that in Polish politics Ryszard Petru is an impossible and beautiful case like a glass locomotive. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u615	Thank you, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u616	A statement by the Members on the 70th anniversary of Zdzisław Badocha's death. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On June 28 we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the death of Zdzisław Badocha ps. Iron - soldier of the Home Army and commander of Squadron 2. The Vilnius AK Brigade in the post-war years. I'd like to say a few words about the life of this enchanted soldier. Zdzisław Badocha was born on 22 March 1925 in Dąbrowa Górnicza. His father was a P.O. of the Border Protection Corps. At the age of a dozen, Baden and his family lived in New Saints, where he attended their junior high school. Józef Piłsudski. At the age of 13, he became a member of the Scout Team. B. Głowacki. He began his conspiracy in the Baden National Army at the age of 17. He became a member then. 23. Ignalino Diversion Center - New Saints. A year later, he took command of one of the patrols. In 1944, after his previous deconspiracy, he became a soldier of Sergeant Mieczysław Kitkiewicz's platoon. Kitka in 5. The Vilnius AK Brigade under the command of Zygmunt Szendzielarz a.k.a. Scoundrel. Badocha took part in the fight for the liberation of Vilnius as part of Operation Ostra Gate. When in July 1944 the 5th brigade was surrounded by the Soviets, its members scattered. Badocha and other soldiers were then incorporated into the 4th spare infantry regiment in the Dojlids. In October of the same year, the Irony joined Major Zygmunt Szendzielarz's 5th Vilnius brigade. As commander of the platoon in the 4th squadron of Lt. Pluciński's ps. Mścisław, who remained at the age of 20, continued to fight. 22 May 1945 Badocha became a corporal. A few months later, he was promoted to lieutenant. When the 5th Brigades were demobilized in September of the same year, Badocha visited his family in Dąbrowa Górnicza. He then left to his relatives a collection of photographs of soldiers of the 5th brigade with dedications. The 5th brigade resumed its operations at the turn of February and March 1946. Badocha became commander of the 2nd squadron, and he and his men carried out a whole range of activities related to disarming military patrols and precincts. One of the actions thanks to the BBC radio station became known to the public abroad. Here we are talking about events in Stara Kishev, where employees of the local Public Security Office were shot. In response to the actions of the 2nd squadron, the communist authorities sent large forces against him. Badocha was attacked on June 10, 1946. Two officers of the Security Office and three militiamen were killed as a result of the fighting. The squadron managed to escape, but the Iron One himself was wounded. He was taken to the Czernin estate for treatment, which was run by a Kashubian activist for several months working with the 5th brigade. Badocha, however, was released. Information about his whereabouts has been released to the authorities previously arrested liaison Regina Żylinska. On 28 June 1946, a dozen operating groups surrounded the estate. Iron tried to free himself from the lap. But he was shot with a grenade shrapnel. Badocha's burial site is unknown. It wasn't until the 1960s that his family found out about the circumstances of his death. Zdzisław Badocha for outstanding merits incurred in the fight against the weapon in his hand for the sovereignty and independence of the Polish state in 1939 and 1956 was posthumously decorated with the Cross of the Cross of Independence in 2015. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-05-sejm-22-1.u617	The meeting is adjourned until 6 July 2016 at 3 p.m. 9. Good night.
