ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a 15-minute recess until 9.15 a.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 00 to 9 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through that territory. The text of the Act is contained in print No 126 and the report of the Commission In print No 126 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Dear guests! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm here to introduce you. to the State the amendment of the Foreign Military Rules Act in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules governing the movement of these troops in that territory. This is a government presentation, as you mentioned, senate print No. 126, sejm print No. 295 and 358. The Sejm adopted the law at its 15th meeting on 31 March. The National Defence Commission considered this project on 13 April 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of foreign troops staying on the territory of the Republic of Poland is regulated twice, depending on the situation, whether it is peacetime or wartime. The stay of foreign troops on the territory of the Republic of Poland during the peace period is governed by the amended law, while the rules of residence of foreign troops on the territory of the Republic of Poland during the war are governed by the North Atlantic Treaty ratified by Poland, and especially the famous art. 5. It seems that such binary regulation is insufficient because of what we see in the world, how conflicts are currently taking place. We are dealing with conflicts which are undoubtedly the aggression of one country to another, but do not fulfil the criterion of armed conflict, as it is described in the North Atlantic Treaty. Different terms are used here, because the phenomenon itself can take different forms We are talking about subliminal war, we are talking about hybrid war, we are talking about unconventional war, we are talking about camouflage in the form of internal conflict. The lack of regulation in Polish legislation can encourage potential opponents to take such action against Poland. The lack of this type of regulation may also create an uncomfortable situation for our allies, who would be reluctant to join Polish armed forces in a situation where the legitimacy of this type of action would be uncertain. Then, according to the Latin maxim si vis pacem, para bellum, if you want to live in peace, get ready for war In the previous term, the Polish government has already started, together with its allies, to participate in the plans that are called the "Awaiting Plan" and are aiming to regulate these issues in national legislation. Such regulation can be seen as an increase in the security of Poland, even if by the fact of scaring off the potential opponent at this moment he will certainly have to calculate the risk of conflict with forces of Polish allies. At the same time, it is a help to our allies to help the Polish Armed Forces. The construction of the amendment is that the present law is accompanied by a single article. 3a, which contains five paragraphs. In the mouth. 1 a procedure is provided to determine which authorities of the State are competent to consider the situation as requiring the assistance of allies. And this procedure is that the person who directs the Armed Forces during peacetime, i.e. the Minister of National Defence, with the consent of the person who is responsible for the external and internal security of the country and for foreign policy, the Prime Minister, asks the commander of the Armed Forces during peace, the President, to agree to the participation of foreign troops as allies in military reinforcement of the Polish Armed Forces. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 provides that this consent shall specify the purpose and powers of those troops. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 regulates that the powers of foreign troops will be similar to the powers of the Polish Armed Forces. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 states that the President shall immediately inform the Marshals of the Sejm and the Senate of his consent. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 regulates the issue of the use of weapons by foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland - suspends the operation of Article. 13 in relation to the rules for the use of weapons by foreign troops on Polish territories. The Defence Commission, as I mentioned, examined this law on 13 April, mainly discussing the concerns of the Legislative Office regarding the aforementioned paragraph. 5. The legislator's proposal was not to suspend the action of the Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3). Ladies and gentlemen, the construction of the art. 13 is that in the mouth. Point 1 (3) shall be allowed for foreign troops to use arms subject to paragraph 1. 3, a paragraph. 3 describes the situations in which foreign troops can use weapons in the territory of the Republic of Poland, providing that they can do so on the premises of their stay, during marching and during exercise. In two places it was written... The first is to agree on the use of weapons, and the second is to determine in which situations these weapons may be used. The intention of the legislators of the Ministry of Defence was that the entire record should not function in the case of this agreement, and according to what the Senate legislature tried to convince us to do, the suspension of both of these records, i.e. the consent to the use of weapons and the conditions under which these weapons may be used, will make it impossible for foreign troops to use weapons in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The point is, if the president couldn't authorize the use of weapons, it would be a complete departure from the principle that we want to create here, which is to give allies the opportunity to act. Legislators of the Ministry of National Defence disagree with the argument of the Legislative Office and consider that, first of all, art. 13 for the service use of weapons, so leaving this record would involve very limited conditions for the use of weapons; in short, it would bind hands to foreign armed forces. Second, the intention of mouth. 3 is that the powers of foreign troops during allied assistance are similar to those of the Polish Armed Forces. These powers for the Polish Armed Forces at the time of peace are described in a number of other laws: in the Police Act, in the Act on Emergency Status, in the Law on War Status, in the Law on Border Guard. The President would have his permission to determine which powers the Armed Forces have, and those powers under these laws would have been powers for foreign troops to use weapons. The Committee on National Defence, having listened to both sides, rejected the amendment proposed by the legislator, recommending that 5 Senators vote in favour, 4 abstentions The High House has adopted a law in the form proposed by the legislators of the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for National Defence has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State, Minister Tomasz Szatkowski. Minister, do you wish to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich is speaking. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This is a very important act, very important because of the nature of modern armed activities. Our club fully supports her. It is important in peacetime, it is also important in times of crisis. It makes it possible for our troops to interact well with allies. It also allows the use of weapons by allied troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland when the exercises take place. And yet we know that in recent years, in the last two years, the number of these exercises has increased violently and this has been the response to the aggressive actions of Russia, its invasion of Ukraine. Last year in the Republic of Poland there were a huge number of allied troops from many allied countries, not only American soldiers, because there were also French, and Dutch, and British, and Canadians, and representatives of other countries. Thus, this law allows us to conduct weapons exercises during the room, which are part of the deterrent policy of today's repulsion. The Act also allows, what is equally important, to cooperate during the crisis in resisting a possible unconventional attack, often referred to as hybrid, in which the military must react very quickly, very effectively, in a non-massage manner, but must certainly be well-balanced, and the interoperability of individual national divisions is a prerequisite for effective action. Every soldier carries rules of engagement in his pocket, the rules of use of weapons, and needs to know exactly when this weapon is allowed to be used, and when it is not, there is no time for these rules of use of weapons at the last minute to determine. Therefore, legislation must be prepared for this purpose and the soldiers must know it. They must be known by both Polish soldiers and allies. Therefore, the meaning of this law, I will repeat it again, is huge. It is equally important that there is no doubt about its legislative coherence, and therefore the representatives of the Civic Platform in the committee expressed these doubts which the rapporteur mentioned on the basis of the submission of the Legislative Office. It would be good if we leaned over them, and if from here, from the Senate, there was a bill that would be fully marked: Convincing for everyone: for us, for the President, for the public and finally for the soldiers themselves who use arms. That is why I would very much appeal to the entire Chamber to reconsider these doubts of the Legislative Office and to adopt an amendment that will be proposed in a moment so that there really is no legislative doubt. To conclude, I would like to say that this is a fundamental law that is important to our national security. It's very good that she's being submitted to the Senate, but let's take the Legal Bureau seriously. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Maciej Grubski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u6	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, On the way to Senator Klich's thinking, I would say that we thought it was a little hasty as a committee to agree to eliminate the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. 3 laws. I would like to make an amendment again, because I think that we should reconsider this matter. This is the danger that Minister Klich was talking about, that it will be decided by the President that it is possible to use weapons and coercive measures, and this will be prohibited by law. That is why I am making an amendment on the content of this article. 1, in Article 1, the following paragraph is added: Article 3a (3) (a) 5 words "Article." Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. The text of Article 3 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. I would also like to express my satisfaction that such a law will work. This is a very necessary bill, thank you to the Ministry for presenting it. Once again, I ask the committee that will meet to reconsider this amendment. Thank you very much. And I'm making an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Maciej Łuczak made his speech in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing by Senator Maciej Grubski. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... [[Voice in the O.R.: A referral to the committee...]] Okay, I'm sorry. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Defence to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say that, of course, we have analysed this attention of legislators. I would like to point out that neither the Government Legislative Centre nor the Sejm Analysis Office considered that this comment was justified. That's one thing. Secondly, this article, which in connection with this particular case would be repealed, concerns something completely different, namely the situation in which allies move to Poland only during exercise. It's a completely peaceful, non-violent situation. That's why this article, this mouth. 1 concerns the situation of the use of weapons in the performance of their duties, which means that the use of weapons outside the so-called weapons is prevented from being used in advance. Sometimes it's a job. In the military, that term means... The performance of tasks is limited e.g. for training on the field. That's one thing. Secondly, the aforementioned paragraph. In fact, point 3 limits the possibility of using weapons to very specific situations related to the exercise, the exercise of marches. The purpose of this regulation is to create a separate mode of use of weapons by allies, such as the use that will be regulated in a manner similar to the use of weapons by our Armed Forces during peacetime. The point is that, in the mode described by your rapporteur, the President may give allies a mandate to use weapons in a manner that is at most compatible with the regime applicable to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, but which goes beyond what is possible during peacetime. The government's position is this: we believe that these amendments are unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u9	Thank you very much to the government representative. Once again, I ask the Committee on National Defence to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. The vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The text of the act is contained in print No 132 and the report of the committee In print No 132 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the law does not require a detailed discussion, because it is our initiative, the Senate initiative on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The Commission, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility facilities, proposes 2 amendments. One is de facto purely legislative, and the other is quite important, because this is an amendment that eliminates doubts about the free disclosure in the eternal books of these changes. In short: the law provides for a ban on the granting by units of local government to buildings, buildings, public utility facilities, including roads, streets, bridges, squares, names which commemorate or promote persons, organizations, events or dates symbolising communism or other totalitarian system. If the name promoting the totalitarian system of the voivode is given, using its supervisory powers, it will repeal the illegal resolution and then, if the authority of the relevant local government does not give a new name, it will give the name a replacement order. The Act introduces a 12-month deadline for local governments to eliminate names promoting the totalitarian system, which still apply. The procedure assumes that, in the event of the inaction of local government units, the voivode will give a legal name by issuing, as I mentioned just now, a replacement order. The settlements of the voivode will require the opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The opinion of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance and Martyrdom will be optional. The Act is to enter into force 3 months after the date of the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't know... Did Senator Mammoth come forward for discussion? [[Yes.]] Do any of you have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? I don't see... Professor? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u12	I signed up for the discussion, too, but now I have a question. I wasn't at that committee meeting. Did the discussion raise such a thread that it kind of changes in parallel... The point is that, at the level of the Sejm, the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance is currently being debated, according to which among others. The memory protection board is to be terminated. Therefore, it will probably be necessary to amend this law very quickly. Was this taken into account, or was such a theme even discussed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u13	As far as I can remember, that's not the story. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u14	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was introduced by the Senate. Minister Tomasz Zdzikot, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will join us in a moment. He's already entering the building, so why don't we announce a two-minute break... Oh, there's the minister. Welcome to the Minister. Minister, we are now considering item five of the agenda. I wanted to ask if the Minister wishes to speak on behalf of the Government on the bill under consideration. It is a law on banning the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Briefly. Work on the bill was carried out with the active participation of representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, who from the beginning, which is worth noting, expressed a clear positive attitude towards the project. The formal official position of the government was not subject to an inter-ministerial consultation due to the adoption of the Act on 1 April. The amendments which are currently being examined have been tabled by the committees on 12 April and, I understand, are intended to clarify the provisions of the Act. The first amendment deals with the clarification of the terms "Accordance" and "Act." Of course, the audacity falls within the scope of the term "act', so I understand that this is a certain improvement, clarification. The same is true of the second amendment concerning Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 act. We're at your disposal as an M.S.W.A. We have the position of Minister of Justice, which emphasizes... In his position of 13 April, the Minister of Justice points out that he believes that the second amendment to the proposed act, namely that concerning Article, is to be introduced. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, it is not necessary and the application of the law without this amendment will not give rise to any question of interpretation. So that, as I am saying, both amendments are clear, improving, but in my opinion the application of the provisions of the law without their implementation should not give rise to any question of interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u16	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators can report from an ongoing location... please stay, Minister, because there may be questions for you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u17	Minister, I have two questions. The first is related to the obligation of IPN to present us with a list of names that would fall into the area of interest in this law. Do you know anything about the fact that the IPN has prepared such a list? Did you come across a list like this? And the second question concerns the scope of this law, or indeed the scope of this law. The question is, is there work in the ministry? And if not in the ministry, maybe in another institution, not necessarily represented by you, but maybe you have some information about it about, let's call it general, a monumental problem? This law does not apply to this problem. I am referring mainly to monuments that express gratitude to the Soviet Army. This is also a matter of our contacts with Russia. So my question is, is there any work going on here?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u18	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, I would like to invite you to the speaker and ask you to respond to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u19	Dear Marshal! Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I have no knowledge of this and I cannot answer right now whether the IPN is preparing a list and at what stage the work on it is at. The bill is an initiative of the Senate. I didn't take part in her work, and I don't have that kind of knowledge. Similarly, as regards initiatives or ideas for a legislative initiative to separate the issue of monuments from this law. I don't know that kind of initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u20	Thank you very much. Minister, stay here because there are still questions. Senator Jan Rulewski wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I do not hide that there will be a suggestion in my question. This is due to the exceptional compatibility of the two chambers of parliament and, as I hear here, the government will finally be solved with a sensitive ideological problem, which had previously been largely resolved by revolutionary methods. However, now, under conditions of quite advanced activity of residents, especially those with business premises, schools, institutions, foundations, local governments will unfortunately be more difficult... And the question is: would the government not want to help local governments and in addition to the help provided for in the law on changing street names to provide assistance in the form of such, I would say, propaganda preparation or information among the inhabitants about why this need to be changed? The law contains the assistance of the voivode in the form of implementing regulations, but I think that since it is a year for change, it should also involve the government as, I would say, the patron of these changes, and take a conversation with institutions, residents and economic operators. Can the government prepare such a program?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u22	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, you have touched on an extremely important issue and I fully agree with you, not only as Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, but also as a self-government officer for many years and councillor. It seems to me that it is extremely important to reach out to the public, to the inhabitants, to the public with a message on the need and validity of these changes, and this action should be carried out with a large number of actors. Not only the government, the Sejm and the Senate, but also the local governments. Let us remember that local governments are not only city leaders, presidents, mayors, mayors or marshals, but also councillors, i.e. a very large crowd of people who are socially involved and who have a electoral mandate that should be involved. In many places, personally known to me, they are actively involved in communicating knowledge, informing the locals about the need and validity of such changes. This seems extremely important. Certainly, the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration is actively involved in the work of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission and will make every effort to take part in this process. It also seems necessary to involve the institutions and agendas of the broadly understood Polish state, which operate in the field of historical education and historical policy. I mean the Institute of National Remembrance. This is certainly a process to which the senator, the Professor here, has quite rightly pointed out to us, and which requires the involvement of very many actors, very many people and is necessary to carry out. I don't think it's the government's job alone. This should be the task of a broadly understood civil society, supported by government institutions and agendas and by the government as such.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Do any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? Yes, Professor Jan Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u25	Minister, I would like to hear once again a clear answer about who will, in short, pay for the changes that will be made. Clearly, this compulsion to make changes within a year is the right thing to do, and as I will speak on this matter, of course. I'll stress that. But we all know, as we sit here, that one of the propaganda versions concerning the dislike of the inhabitants to participate in changes in street names was generally suspected of losing the same inhabitants or entrepreneurs who have companies on these streets. From the point of view of the ministry official, how can it be said unambiguously: Poles, do not be afraid of these changes, they are the result of an authentic need for historical, social justice and many other values? This should be welcomed in the public opinion, not to look for any weaknesses in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u26	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u27	Senator, Professor, Senator, let me use the senator's words, which are to express it unambiguously: Poles, do not be afraid of these changes, they are necessary and will not involve additional costs and difficulties, as the senators have also decided in the bill. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which I mentioned at the outset, states that such proceedings and changes in documents are exempt from fees. We are making together, on the initiative of the Senate, changes that are necessary, and which we have been waiting for, I think, for too long.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u28	Thank you, Minister. Are there any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u29	Minister, will there be a definition of the totalitarian system for the purposes of this law? And do you, for example? Tsara power, carat is a totalitarian system? Because if you do, you're gonna have to change the name. Aleksandrovna Kujawski. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u30	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u31	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator, I recommend your attention, Art. 1 paragraph 1 and 2 which define the scope of the Act, in particular Article. 1 paragraph 2, indicating that the names referring to persons, organisations, events or dates symbolizing repressive, authoritarian and non-sovereign system of power in Poland in the years 1944 and 1989 are also considered to promote communism. And as a live carat, there's no way.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u32	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Mr. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Tomasz Zdzikot: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, we've already told each other everything about this law during our last term of office. I will only remind you of the full compatibility of both clubs, the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice on this issue. It was a very good sign that both political environments wanted to finish the process started 26 years ago and to help local governments. Because that was our intention: to help local governments and break their inability to complete the process of decommunization of public space. That's what this bill is all about, these two things. The idea is to support local governments to give them a tool in hand, in connection with issues in which they did not make important, necessary decisions for various reasons, as well as to finish this process and put a dot over In the first case, about the resistance of local governments... He had a twofold character, that is, either political or actually financial. I wouldn't underestimate this financial aspect because it wasn't just a propaganda aspect. In some local governments Especially in the northern lands and western lands, where there was no tradition before 1939, to which one could appeal, where there were no street patrons, figures who had previously patronized the streets and squares And there really wasn't enough motivation to involve self-government resources enough to change patrons, change street names and squares. But of course there was also a political aspect, I don't underestimate it. This bill is intended to help break both of these barriers. I mean, the financial barrier and the political barrier. According to the IPN data, the Minister did not quote them, but I remember them from the previous term, when we were working on this law, there are still 1 000 200 to 1 thousand 400 patrons in public space. And those who really seem to be patrons in a completely obvious way connected with the system, which we managed to overcome with common forces, such as. Janek Krasicki. There are still many names commemorating whether it is the 20th anniversary, or it is the 20th anniversary of the Polish People's Republic. There's nothing to commemorate. So that the catalogue presented by the IPN and discussed here during the work in the last term seems to remain unchanged. I would only warn you about one thing before extending this catalogue for the moment. There's a tendency to decommunize, for example. Władysław Broniewski. And to extend the list of names by several dozen more. With me, in my native Krakow, we managed to deal with all this very early, many years ago, and carried out almost a complete decommunization of public space. There's still four dubious patrons, if I remember correctly. But recently there have been some who want to add a few more names to this list, which do not raise doubts such as Janek Krasicki or Róża Luxembourg. I warn against this one so as not to rush away and not to ridicule this important product of ours with excessive revolutionary zeal. We're going to put a dot over the "and," help local governments, support them financially where such financial support is needed, complete the process of decommunization of public space. Not people, but public space. And close this process. This is our mission. That's what I encourage you to do. And such a shape or such a basis of this law is convincing for our senate club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Mammothov.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, like Senator Klich said, we've been talking about this bill for so long, and we've said so much that, in fact, today, all we need to do is ask for it. However, I would like to talk about two things that Senator Klich also spoke about. First, it's a financial issue. While, in the case of the first draft, in the previous term, there was a question of burdening citizens with the costs of this law It may not have been significant, but it had an impact on the pockets of the residents. However, this law does not, in principle, have any such effect. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the principle introduced by this law, documents shall remain valid until the end of the period laid down therein, regardless of whether the street name is changed or not. It is also worth noting that in new personal evidence there are no street names, so that is not an obstacle. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, for six years we've been knocking at the Sejm on this bill to carry it out, and we haven't been able to. Today, we still have a proverbial dot over the "I." That's what I'm asking you to do. I'm asking you to do it today because it should've been done 27 years ago. As I said before: it is simply the most normal world shame for our country, that we had to wait so many years for decommunization of public space in our homeland. If I say now that last year there was Bolesław Bierut Street in Poland, you won't believe me. [[Where?]] Never mind. If I say that in Poland today there are streets of Marchlewski, Varyńskiego, it is really... [[The streets of Varyński are and will stay.]] [[Janek Krasicki will be...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.]] I say they are. I'm saying they are. In two cities there is Popławskiego Street, Pawłowskiego Street... You could really say different names of the streets of those former Communists. There's about 1,000 of them, there's 1,000 of them. Therefore, I kindly ask you: let us adopt this law as it is, without any amendments, and put it into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u36	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan... [[And I'm not in the Senate anymore?]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry... Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Senator Jan Żaryn, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, as Senator Bogdan Klich said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen.]] It's unusual enough to refer to the opposition senator, so I'd like to stress it. So, in fact, this bill was being processed and in the previous term of office. At that time I was acting on behalf of the Institute of National Remembrance and was lucky to be at some meetings. Now, during this term, we are finishing a process of recovering the correct memory. This is undoubtedly a very important moment, the more important it is that the decommunization process failed in the 1990s in a much more serious space, i.e. not symbolic, and concerning the actual removal of communists from the democratic institution of the state so as not to instigate their totalitarianism of these institutions. It's a good thing we're able to finish this process. However, I would like to tell you on this occasion about a few things that let them serve as a model to follow, and I apologise if this sounded too delicious about the practical departure from dilemmas, in which the local government might slip, especially without the help of the Institute of National Remembrance. And again, I will appeal to Senator Klich's statement, which I agree with. The point is not to fire a baby with a bath. And now a few practical comments in this regard. There is no doubt that you should get rid of patrons like General Walter-Broniewski... I mean, not Broniewski, and General Walter, Świerczewski, the streets of his name in Poland are the most according to the report of the Institute of National Remembrance. Because, of course, the Institute of National Remembrance has a list of these streets and squares, these more than a thousand examples. Świerczewski is still the patron of the streets in about fifty cases. Of course, this is a testimony of the very long duration of this version of the life story given by Mrs. Broniewska in Stalinist times. That's why I slipped my tongue. I hope that she will never be a patron again, nor will Świerczewski be a patron of the streets in Warsaw or in any other city or town. But there are also problems that are not and will not be as easy to solve as the case of Świerczewski. It was an agent of a foreign state. There's no need to honor foreign agents, plus the occupation states. Senator Robert Mamytkow said that, for example, we would have dilemmas related to Ludwik Waryński. It is an honored figure, among others, one of the principal streets in Śródmieście Wary, which we associate, and rightly, with communism in the sense that the same Ludwik Waryński was used by communists and became a model of their supposedly progressive and pro-Polish thinking. Ludwik Waryński himself had no chance to defend himself, his life story, as we know, was manipulated and thus became, in short, a patron and great predecessor of Władysław Gomulka, which is, of course, a historical lie. I am saying this as a supporter of the national-democratic, Chadec tradition, certainly not the tradition of Louis Varyński, so that it is clear, please do not enter me into this ideological part of the Polish heritage. However, there is no doubt that Ludwik Waryński was also a patron of the independence socialists, as you can see when you read the memories of Ludwik Krzywicki. Regardless of the fact that the ideology presented by Mr Ludwik Krzywicki is not close to me, it is Polish and it is difficult for Ludwik Waryński to take away the right to exist, also the right to exist as a patron of streets or squares. I give this as an example of the huge role of the Institute of National Remembrance, which will have to enter into such dilemmas and also solve them as authentic authority, from which there will be no appeal. Fortunately, this law is written in such a way that it actually places the Institute of National Remembrance as an institution issuing the final verdict. I am very happy about this, but this is obviously a challenge for the Institute of National Remembrance. The fact is that such a question had to be taken into account: there must be someone who will judge it all, and it can certainly not be a local government, because it has no obligation to have knowledge as deep as an institution, which by definition deals with commemoration. I will also give another example, which raises doubts, and which has not been clearly stated in this law... It has not been shown how this problem will be solved and local governments will have to deal with it themselves. Another example of Warsaw: the basic street of the People's Army. There is no doubt about where this People's Army originated: it originates from the People's Guard. It is also known that it is in fact an organization that has been pursuing the Soviet military-political goals on an ongoing basis. But the case ceases to be so clear when we look at the history of the Warsaw Uprising: 400 ALs die in the Warsaw Uprising, if I remember. Maybe I'm wrong about a few people, but that's not the most important thing right now. They submit to the Polish Underground State, i.e. they submit to the Polish state. For 63 days they stand up for independent Poland, but they are AL sheep. And now the dilemma: what to do? Well, I would have a proposal for local governments, so that they could use a flexible historical policy by deciding the names of the streets. Namely, within the framework of this flexibility, local governments have the right, in my opinion, to move street names as well. AL honored in the Polish People's Republic for completely different reasons already had an honorable place in the period of the Polish People's Republic and Chwatit. But there's no reason that there's no street of the People's Army, e.g. on the outskirts of town. So we could introduce such flexibility in which we can show honor for what is undoubtedly a clear, unambiguous example of the struggle for Polishness, for independence, for everything that is worth to the contemporary Polish state, but on the other hand we see in history difficult cases for which we do not want to degrade sacrifice, sacrifice of life in battle, which, if it were victorious, would constitute glory e.g. also those ALs who fought hand in hand with soldiers of the National Army or the National Armed Forces during the Warsaw Uprising for 63 days. Therefore, these questionable issues seem to me to be extremely important and stress the importance of an institution that will take care of these doubts that I have expressed and, of course, those doubts that I will not give, because I would have to speak endlessly. And there will, of course, be a lot of them. I hope that there is no doubt, in turn, that this is about the decounization bill, which contains clear records. About the biography time... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done. I'm gonna move the rest to my extra five minutes. I'm just gonna finish the story. Namely, I hope that there is no doubt that on the basis of this law it will also be possible to change the names of the streets, if they still exist in public space, commemorating figures such as members of the pre-war Communist Party of Poland, i.e. persons who died naturally or died by Stalinist hands before 1939. Of course, as people, we regret that someone has murdered someone, but certainly Leński-Leszczyński or Wera Kostrzew, or Warsaw-Warski are not the heroes of our fairy tale, and it will also be possible to change the names of the streets commemorating these characters. For now, period, and to be continued.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u38	Thank you, Senator. Senator Robert Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would argue a little with Professor Żaryn, whom I very much value for his amazing knowledge, and this speech also has a very substantive character. But either we decide on something, which means we cut and forget... Because if we were to move these street names to the outskirts of the city today, then for one outskirts it's something out of the center, and for the other, it's a neighborhood that's far away to go for a long time. I think we're all agreed that we're either cutting something with a big line today... Too bad it wasn't done 26 years ago. Here I would agree with my namesake, Senator Robert, that we are actually standing above the divisions today, that we are all in agreement, but the question is why it took so long. And maybe it's also a good prediction for the future that all the laws will be dealt with in this way and we won't have to debate or sometimes accuse each other. I'm also... I wrote down the streets from a few towns in my voivodship. Because every day a man may not realize it, and it turns out that today there are actually a lot of such streets. In particular, Świerczewskiego Street is practically in every village. I remembered that my primary school also had the name Świerczewski. Luckily, the high school in Żary, which I graduated from, was already named after Bolesława. Not Bolka Prusa. A certain surprise to me... I have to tell you about one of my collisions with these street names. Our sports club signed a partnership agreement with a club from Russia a long time ago, from Bałakowa. It is a city 1,000 km behind Moscow, where there is a nuclear power plant near Volga. What was my surprise when I saw that in the city It's a big city. It's got about 300,000 inhabitants. There were several streets that went on forever, and their names were unambiguous: Lenin Street, Stalin Street, Red Star Street. To me, it was amazing. My first association was that actually And that was 15, maybe 10 years ago. We're so far away from them... Because here man sometimes did not realize that he had flashed the street of Świerczewski, while there clearly this cult of what was there continues to this day. Besides, we all know very well about the monuments, the Lenin Museum, which can still be seen in the Red Square. Meanwhile, we are already in another world, as it were, in another matter. I'm really glad that I'm gonna do my best by voting for this bill... And I think that without corrections... I'm also glad we're so agreeable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u40	Thank you, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, we can carry out diwags about the validity of names for a very long time, but you know that this voivode, after consulting the IPN, will decide whether the name is correct or not, whether there will be a supervisory decision or not. So there's a facility that's gonna make decisions. You said interesting names. I can also say that in Poznan I went to a high school called Ho Chí Minha. Luckily, that name was changed quickly. Of course, it's hard to say that 26 and 27 years ago... you say it was possible to change the names of the streets quickly. We'd have to discuss that. In Poland there were also Soviet troops, there was a completely different situation. It's easy for us to talk about today. However, the fact that it is good that these names, maybe with a long delay, but will be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to refer to the two amendments that have been tabled. The first case concerns the replacement of the word "act." I would like to tell you that the voivode may annul the resolution or order That's the record. It may also assess that the file was issued in violation of the law. It is clearly here, in the regulations, that the voivode may annul a resolution or order. The law contains the word "act." Well, all the documents are files. There's an act of baptism, there's a birth certificate... That's a broad name, because all documents are files. And here it is clearly stated that it is a resolution, not an order, because in this case the decision of the voivode will only apply to the resolution. I think it would be right if we could fix it. The second amendment concerns letters and court proceedings. The fact that these writings are in the proceedings is not well written either, but maybe it's a minor amendment... Nevertheless, I would opt to make these two amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sejm changed the deadline we proposed in the bill, 24 months for 12 months. There was a discussion at the committee meeting on this subject. There is vacathio legis, there are still 3 months plus 12, which together gives 15 months, so it is enough time. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that there may be different situations in different municipalities, where there are no such names at all. There are 226 municipalities in my voivodship, but it may happen that there are several such names in a municipality. It seems to me that now this deadline of 12 months has to be accepted, because it is difficult to correct it at the moment after the Seym, but I think it would be safer to have a deadline, because there is no such haste... We must take into account that, as you have noticed, The decision itself as to which street names should be changed is a problem. Then there are all these procedures related to the change of name, then the consequences. As far as the Treasury is concerned, these changes in documents... Besides, as Senator Mammoth said, This does not apply to evidence, because we no longer have addresses in the evidence, but as far as the driver's license is concerned, we still do. Anyway, in this case, when it comes to changing street names, we won't have to exchange them. There is also a mess here, because in one case you need to change the document due to the change of address, in another case you don't need to. It's confusing, and I don't think it's necessary. It's a big rush. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to local governments, with the change of street names, we need to prepare new tables. These are the costs that local governments bear. Entrepreneurs need to change stamps, documents. I think that the term we proposed as the Senate, the 2-year term, was safe, good. The Sejm wanted to make an amendment, maybe just so I can say, to be more important than the Senate, than the Higher House. Well, it happened. I do not make this amendment, although I believe that as far as local governments are concerned, they would definitely prefer that the 24-month period remain here. I will urge you to accept the two amendments proposed by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please take the floor. Mr. Senator, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think today is the last time we're gonna be dealing with this bill. Several comments may be less related to the content of the law itself Even though there will be such comments More so with what is not included in the Act and with implementing issues. The first concerns the IPN register, which the IPN itself informed us about, I remind you, at one of the committee meetings. I regret that this register of names that fall into the area of operation of this law has not yet been presented to us. I would ask you to do so on the line, I would call it, a service address to the IPN, that this register be made to the High Chamber, not only to the members of the committee, presented, because it will certainly be interesting, first, and second, it will have the cognitive, informational value, because we also live in municipalities, in powiats, and mostly they will apply this law, and we can serve directly to those interested, in some sense contribute to the implementation of this law. Now it's a matter of what's not in this bill. There are no monuments here. Why? It is mainly about these controversial monuments, symbolic commemorations connected with the presence of the Soviet Army here as a liberator. This is indeed a complicated matter. She also deals with international affairs. And it's kind of double-complicated, because if we're dealing with names here, which is something that exists in the legal sphere, then in the case of monuments, we'd have to deal with some objects physically: obelisks, plaques that exist in the field. I know that the creators of this bill, represented here in the person of Senator Mammoth, whom I thank at all for putting this law on the agenda of the Senate, thanks to the Senate, we are practically at the end of its adoption, and they have committed themselves to the fact that we will also take care of the monuments. We'll hold you to that. There is another area connected with this law, the sphere that was also mentioned in the course of the project that was later submitted to the Sejm, and you will remember that, I mean the issue of naming, I would call it generally, institutions such as schools, hospitals. There were questions addressed at the time, among others. to me as rapporteur for the committee on whether this law also covers the names of such institutions. Because we're sure that it includes a case where there's a name tag on the school, and it's a school or a school band named General Świerczewski. Theoretically, such an array can be removed according to this law, of course, it can always be removed, but thanks to this law we have the legal basis Only that it is a matter of debate. And that's why I think that, on the contrary to the appeals that have been made here, it would be a good idea to stop working on the bill and not deal with it anymore. We should also broaden the scope of this law. Why? In order to be able to take off the names of institutions It's about the word "schools," "hospitals," and so on. Then it'll be clear. And that's why I'm going to make an amendment that's in the title and wherever the objects are listed, the buildings that the law deals with. In other words, the scope of the Act adds the wording of the Organizational Units. Why not? Because from a legal point of view, I've been persuaded about it here. The term "organization unit" is primarily more general, it appears in the Civil Code, as in Article. 33. But most importantly, it appears in local government laws, i.e. the municipal government law, that is, art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1; Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 1; and in the Local Government Act of the voivodship, Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Each unit, such as the municipality, district or voivodship, has the right to establish an organisational unit for the purpose of carrying out its tasks. It's gonna be a school, it's gonna be a hospital, it could be anything, practically anything, having legal personality and not having legal personality, most importantly, it's called. And if there is a history of this type mentioned in such a name, then I doubt that at this point someone is giving the institutions names, some of which would fall into the area of operation of this law. But if such names still exist, after the extension of the directory contained in the Act, after the extension of the scope of the present name, such names can be deleted. It will be an obligation to remove such names from public space, among other things, so that the patron of the school should not be the person who introduced the communist system or symbolized it. That's what I think we need to do with this bill. Another issue is what we also talked about in the previous discussion, namely not honorary patronages, but the granting of honorary citizenship, titles deserved for the municipality, etc. We're coming down here, so to speak, from public space to the personal area of a man. Of course, these honorary citizenships or badges or decorations granted to those who we now consider to promote communism may appear in public space, but, by the way, the normal use of such a title is rather a personal matter. Therefore, I believe that the law should not apply to honorary citizens of municipalities, powiats, cities, etc., deserved for some areas, for the voivodship, because these are already private matters. Of course, no one forbids a municipality or county or, in general, a body that has given such an honorary citizenship or such a badge, to withdraw from such a provision, but I would no longer regulate it by law. And the last question about the implementation of the law. As everyone here seems to agree, the law will mainly concern names that already exist in public space. So in most cases, the article will actually be used. 6 law, transitional provision, not Article. 2. It's in the article. 6 is the statement that the voivode after the annual waiting period, where the municipality Well, let's assume that the municipality He will not comply with the provisions of the law, he will issue a replacement order. Just note that the voivode must be informed that a name exists in public space. If the municipality finds that a given name, e.g. the name of the street, does not cover the scope of this law, i.e. in the opinion of the commune this name does not promote, assume, the communist system, therefore the commune does nothing about it, the voivode or of its own motion, or at the request must act on this matter within 3 months. I ask you not to force the voivodeship so much as to encourage such action, this review, I appeal from this Senate speaker to our citizens: send a letter to the municipalities Of course, with a copy for your voivodeship so that it stays in the file so that the voivode has an overview of these names. In which you will request that such names be removed from the public space under this law. If the municipality doesn't do it within a year, it's gonna have to take care of the voivode. Why? Because he's gonna have a motion before, let's say, four, five or six months. With this encouragement to be active for us as citizens, but also for the senators, I would like to conclude. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u44	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Alexander Bobka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! A few reflections on this important symbolic law, which, as has already been said here, will put a dot over and in fact, and symbolically as far as the final break with communism is concerned. The first thought is that this law gives some educational opportunities, opens up space to discuss our complex history, as well as the essence of totalitarianism. Today, in one of the questions appeared a thread based on a certain misunderstanding: they asked whether the carat was totalitarianism. Totalitarianism is not every system we don't like. Right? The monarchy, whether anyone likes her or doesn't like her... most of the monarchy wasn't totalitarian systems. Right? On this occasion, we can introduce some conceptual order into our space. The second... more important thing is to discuss our history and how to commemorate it. This bill, in my opinion, signals that symbols in our public space are important, but you would like to... I think there is a really great opportunity for this, as this discussion shows. The point is, this bill gives us a chance to build a consensus around our history. This should be called upon, and this law should be applied so that, despite disagreements in making difficult decisions, consent should be built, not raised disputes or feuds. This agreement is possible. The voices in the discussion of both Senator Klich and Senator Zarin were basically very similar. On the one hand, Senator Klich warned I think it makes sense, before some revolutionary enthusiasm, that here we will suddenly, I would say, clean everything down, which smells like communism, and on the other hand... local communities will certainly have many serious dilemmas connected with even these names. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so that being a hero or an outstanding artist or making a great contribution to Polish culture does not exclude being a collaborator, rubbing against treason or even being a traitor. How do you weigh these two things? Should anyone who has wiped out communism but made an important or interesting contribution to our culture be erased from public space? Probably not. There's a line somewhere. I think that these issues will have to be settled primarily by local communities, local governments. And so I understand the intention of this law: that it gives local governments a tool and that they should have a wide margin for certain autonomous local decisions. And the arbitrage will probably play, according to the Act, the Institute of National Remembrance. And I hope, in fact, I'm sure he'll do the job. I would also like to share a few more minutes with you, if you don't mind. I suspect that this bill will once again create an interesting discussion in my family's Rzeszów. If any of you were in Rzeszow, and I think there were many, it is associated with the famous monument, the Rzeszów cucumber standing in the center or whatever else to name it. This is a very interesting example in connection with this law. The question arises as to whether it should cause the supporters of the removal of this monument to have a final argument or not. Ladies and gentlemen, this case of the monument is very interesting because it shows That's my interpretation. That social emotions can change the meaning of the symbol, the meaning of the monument, which was built with a completely different intention. There is no doubt about the intention of the builders of this monument. He was born in the early 1970's. It was the beginning of the days of the games, at that time there was a certain euphoria of Poland becoming an economic power. On the other hand, it was about commemorating those who created the foundations of this new, strong Poland. In the IPN there is information about who was standing in the grandstand, when the monument was exposed, the names of the inspirers or creators of this whole project are known. These are people who are definitely under our law. And I'm sure that's the symbol in our space we wouldn't want. But on the other hand, this monument in Rzeszow in the early 1970's was associated with something completely different. It was a time when Rzeszów from a small town became a voivodship city, a big one. This one, you might say, is actually going on today. Rzeszów is today a completely different city than 40 or 60 years ago. And the emotions of the crowd associated with this monument are completely different, positive. Many of us, residents of Rzeszów, are associated with the process of Rzeszow's growth. Many of us had some of our first encounters with sympathy or friends under this monument. These are completely different emotions. And the monument in its expression, as an artistic work of an outstanding artist, Professor Necessary, actually has no intrusive... does not empathize in its own expression with some symbolism of communism. It was supposed to be a monument to revolutionary battles, but today actually It doesn't really ring that name, especially to those who don't know history very well. What are you gonna do with that thing? There have already been some discussions on this subject in Rzeszow. For now, the monument is standing. I am curious how the bill discussed here will provoke our local community to probably discuss it again. But I hope, or rather I am convinced, that this will not be a cause for contention, that it will be rather a pretext and an opportunity for a better understanding of history by the young generation and for building a certain consensus towards our complex, complex, yet interesting history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u46	Thank you, Senator. [[This bill does not apply to monuments.]] [[Please?]] [[This bill does not apply to monuments.]] [[I didn't read it.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that, finally, after a few years, which you mentioned to Senator Mammoths, we are leading the work to the finals. After 27 years, actually on the eve of the twenty-seventh anniversary of the Round Table or the elections on 4 June 1989, we come to some action, based on a law, which should be taken much, much earlier. And that is why I would like to dedicate my speech to some reflection, analyzing why in us some things that should have been done after the 1989 changes were done so late. Let us remind you that in Poland at the latest the record on the leading role of the party was abolished. After Hungary, Czechoslovakia and the former GDR. Free elections were held at the latest, with more than a year of delay towards Czechoslovakia and Hungary. In Poland, for more than a year of transition, the president was the founder of the martial law of Wojciech Jaruzelski, while in Czechoslovakia and Hungary, the office of president was much earlier covered by former communism prisoners. Havla and Gönch. It was not until December 1991 that the Minister of Defence passed into civilian hands, into the hands of a man uncompromised in the times of communism. In Hungary, Minister Für was in office since May 1990, in Czechoslovakia in October 1990, he was removed from the post of Minister of Defence of former Communist General Vack. In Poland later than in our southern neighbours, democratic forces took control of the MMA. While in Poland there was a thick line, Hungary and Czechoslovakia clearly emphasized the issue of settlement with the past. Laws have been adopted to eliminate from the public life persons cooperating with the apparatus of coercion and senior party officers. A much faster review and exchange of staff in the State apparatus, diplomatic service and justice has been carried out, as has the media, especially on television and in the press. On the other hand, the opposite actions were taken with us and the former nomenclature was granted thanks to the famous law on the liquidation of the RSW. In no other country was as little done as in Poland to undermine the economic power of the old nomenclature. There was not one scandal in Hungary and Czechoslovakia that could compare with the Polish economic scandals in the first half of the 1990s. She made her career especially obsessively promoted by Andrzej Szczypiorski and Adam Michnik, thesis on I quote "Competitive responsibility for communism." Of course, it was convenient especially for people connected with the Peerel system, and found on both sides of the Round Table. Since Poland was a state of law in the light of the Constitution, I am talking about Poland under the legal regime before 1997, the principle that crimes and wickedness must be judged and punished should be respected. Archbishop Kazimierz Majdański, a prisoner of the Nazi camp, who had been dead for many years, who had a great deal to say about forgiveness, in one of his homilys, shared the following reflection: The Czech Parliament passed a law on the unlawfulness of the communist regime on 9 July 1993. That bill sounds harsh. Among other things, it refers to the fact that from 25 February 1948 to 17 November 1989. Czechoslovakia was governed by criminal authority, illegal and deserving of condemnation. With us in 1989, the Archbishop of Majdanski continued to speak of the sacred memory of his decision to completely forget and forgive the past. Was it so effective that the past ceased to exist? Because if she ceased to exist and was compensated, it would be an excellent triumph of forgiveness. If this is not the case, forgiveness has no human or Christian qualities. On the contrary, it has put us in a situation of widespread falsehood. Forgived the guilt for which no one regretted, and wronged Oh, really, it's not that big a deal! That no one fixed. In contrast, another great accuser was found: the Church became one of them. He's accused and ridiculed. Double falsity! In turn everything can be built on truth, everything, especially the national Reconciliation. We need it immensely, and the Church is the servant of it. End of quote from the sacred memory of the Archbishop of Majdanski. The falseness and bias of Szczypiorski's thesis and its promoters consisted in the fact that its authors, instead of talking about the reality of the Polish People's Republic, talked about their role or the role of their environment in the times of the Polish People's Republic. So it is worth to refresh the memory of this universal, what to hide here, the falsifying reality of total amnesia, in which the executioners were depicted. I'm talking about the beginning of the 1990s. As victims and criminals as persecuted. The lack of moral evaluation of our recent history was one of the biggest transformation errors after 1989. Without this assessment it was very difficult to relax reality and return to normality in Poland, i.e. to remove from social life what was contradictory and immoral according to the criteria of civilization in which we have grown for centuries. Without moral judgment, it is impossible to evaluate human actions. Following the lead of the critical apologists of the Polish People's Republic, why... This situation led to historical relativism. An excellent opportunity to reflect on what the Polish People's Republic was, provided the Humer case and other officers of the Peerel apparatus of coercion of the accused, among others. The crimes of genocide. One of the witnesses of the indictment of Juliusz Bogdan Deczkowski was very keen to note: "I compared the investigation conducted against me by UB with the investigation that I experienced in Szucha Avenue in 1941 and 1942. The Gestapos were beating, but they were trying to find out the truth. During the Tomporski investigation, as well as his superior Captain. Kościanowski, who tried to do so by all means until I accused myself and others against the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u48	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! To an in-depth analysis of Senator Jackowski, who was slightly different from the subject, I can only add that although in Hungary and Czechoslovakia these far-reaching transformations began faster than in Poland, it was possible because in Poland there was a Round Table and on 4 June there were elections which put an end to communist power. This is case one. And case number two. Today in Czechoslovakia we have a communist party whose support in elections reaches almost 20% and which participates in the exercise of power. So much for a little comment. Now, a few words. on the topic of today's debate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when we were drawing up this project, when the debate took place here, I said that, of course, the maintenance of various symbols in the form of names, names, which are absolutely not in line with today's reality and with our assessment of history, is unacceptable and, of course, must be stopped. The solutions proposed in this Law can, of course, be accepted on the condition that all those who decide about it have good education, good will, and are not motivated by personal motives. And that is why, when the IPN representative informed at the committee meeting that the IPN actually has a ready release, a ready document covering a set of all names throughout Poland, which are questionable, I asked if we could see such a collection, and we learned that it would be available as far as possible within a month. A month passed, the document wasn't available. I was addressing the president of the IPN, Mr Kaminski. The President has informed me that he will bring this case to the fullest extent possible. It's been a month and a half, and the document wasn't there. And I finally got a call from an IPN employee, and I don't remember his name, who said there was something, and then I asked him if I could see it, and he said that forever, well, anyway to this day. So this basic obligation has not been fulfilled. I also spoke to the chairman of our committee, Mr Gogach, who promised to intervene in this matter. He said: yes, of course, we will debate it, we must have it. I don't know if the senator intervened, and if he intervened, it didn't work either. And that, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, raises some doubts. Why? Well, because as Senator Mamytkow just mentioned Varyński as a man whose name needs to be removed from street names, etc., one can have serious suspicions that we will have more of this kind of conflict. Senator Żaryn has already mentioned this, and thank you. He also raised the issue of the People's Army, which played an important role in the uprising in Warsaw. Her boss, Rozłubirski, got Virtuti Militari from Bora-Komorowski. So I would say this: if the street of the People's Army is in... well, I do not want to exchange any city, in any case elsewhere than in Warsaw, it may raise doubts, but if it is in Warsaw, it should not. Varinski, who is the creator of the socialist movement... Of course, someone may not like socialism, but that's what you can't follow. Varinski was the creator of the socialist movement, he paid for it with his life. Let's face it, he was an incredibly brave man, you can say, a hero, although of course he was used differently by historians, but we should know who Warinski was. And then all of a sudden, he's got to be crossed out. There are lots of examples that people have behaved badly in their lives, but they also had beautiful cards. And now the question is, who's gonna weigh it? If the voivode, I'll be honest with you... I don't know who's gonna be a voivode or where he's gonna be a voivode. The IPN opinion will only be an opinion. We can meet with very different decisions that will cause social conflicts. And that's not what we need for anything, we have enough problems in other areas to cause conflict. I'm going to mention, apart from the examples you mentioned here, Senator Żaryn... I've been a member of the Saw for 10 years. In the 1970s in Pila voivodeship was a Śliwiński character, I presume, here completely unknown, and for pilan, for the inhabitants of the former Pilski voivodeship, it was a great man. It was a man who took care of this voivodship, who invested a lot there, developed this voivodship, etc. And there are Śliwińskiego streets today, there are traces, you can say, of his presence, but of course he can be considered a Peerel dignitary and one or the voivode will think that it needs to be changed. The famous case of General Ziętek in Silesia Well, you know, for Silesians he's important, but he was a party activist. So? Well, then you have to weigh it on the line. Agreed, there are clearly negative characters, e.g. mentioned here already Marchlewski or Świerczewski, but there are also characters for which it must be weighed. The poetry has already been mentioned. Senator Bobko was talking about it. So I'm not going to name names, but we know how different poetry has been. Broniewski was a communist before the war, and at the same time author of wonderful poems and has a permanent place in our literature. And what, throw him out? I don't think that's the right thing to do. Of course, the appeals that Senator Żaryn here... I would say this: if Senator Żaryn had decided all over Poland, that is, if he were an institution of appeal, I would have voted in favour of this bill blindly, but I know that this will not be the case. [[Senator Gary, get him to cooperate...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I apologize immediately to Senator Zarin, because my statement may be a cause of trouble for him... [[Fun in the room]] ...so in order to balance things out, I want to say that there are things that I completely disagree with the senator. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[And what's the percentage of these cases?]] [[Voice from the hall: Your man just...]] Yes, sir. Unfortunately, we'll have 16 voivodships, very different. And not to mention to Senator Mamitov, I already told you once that I like him... [[I'm gonna get it now.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I once said that, that feeling is permanent. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Unfortunately, Senator Mammytov can become a voivode. It's true, isn't it? [[Sorry?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] And then we have a problem. Then we're in trouble. And that's why this publishing house, this document that the IPN was supposed to prepare, was important, because the discussion would be, let's say, more profound, we might know what's coming up, how it's supposed to be. And so it's like a blind date, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what the amendments are, but it seems that they do not introduce anything that would somehow change this system in general. That is why I believe that this law, however necessary, but also containing legitimate passuses However, it does not guarantee that it will not cause significant conflicts in individual local communities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u50	Thank you, Senator. And you speak again, Senator Jan Żaryn. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that Senator Borowski, who, as I hear, likes me very much and appreciates me, like Senator Mamytkow, will vote in favour of this bill, regardless of doubt. I would like to encourage him very warmly to such a gesture, inter alia, because the Institute of National Remembrance, which I believe will be definitely a credible party here and will be able to properly verify the whole thing, prepare for the possibility that he can perform such a role for a long time. In fact, when this law was not yet in place, and local authorities in particular: councillors had the opportunity to apply for a change in the name of the street, the Institute of National Remembrance decided... It was in the days of the president of Janusz Kurtyka's holy memory, I was then the director of the Public Education Office and it was my office that did this thing in a practical sense. It was 10 years ago, more or less... That's practically what we did. In particular, Mr Maciej Korkuć from the Krakow IPN was the person who was delegated to oversee the process of informing the councillors about the possibility of changing the name of the street or roundabout to the request addressed to the Institute of National Remembrance. Therefore, I would like to stress very clearly: let the doubts arising from the fact that for a few months there has been no response, Senator, to your moity, do not take away the credibility of the Institute of National Remembrance, which for at least 10 years has contained such a structure, such a cell, such people who deal with this subject. In Poland there is no other such institution, and therefore it is necessary to accept, I think, with the benefit of inventory, the achievements of IPN in this area. But what I'm trying to say is... Because I am aware that I have limited time, I will talk very, very briefly about two other things. First of all, it's a matter of historical policy. What's going to happen right now with our bill is really going to cause this, and I hope it's going to have a positive form. A discussion in local communities about our history. Mr. Senator Borowski, I'm not worried about authentic disputes. We live as a nation in many authentic disputes, sometimes even need to be invoked, giving a chance for these disputes to occur... That, among other things, is the change of consciousness. Consciousness, which I understand, we want to change in such a way that Poland regains its sense of communion, and in this connection the concept of treason and patriotism is properly presented. So that we can continue to be this community. So if this bill raises a discussion, then praise it, and let us not be afraid of it. Of course, today we are at a completely different point than in 1989, but let me remind you that... Well, there is no denying that the whole construction of the Round Table, prepared by the communist side, was dictated not by the fact that the communists really wanted to surrender power, but by the fact that they wanted to maintain power by seemingly giving it away. All the avalanche of later facts caused that this design of thinking of the then total party leadership, the PZPR, failed, but that was the project. And the result of this project was just such a long duration of the Polish nation in the state of inner lie. Here I will remind you of a very interesting statement by Jan Nowak Jeziorski, who I think is an authority for everyone, regardless of what option we come from; probably even for others he is an authority more than for me. And he said so during his first visit to Poland after 1989. He did not expect that Poles were still on two sides of the front from 1920. Do you understand that sentence? It means that among Poles there are those who still do not know that they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are However, there are Poles who know what independence means. Both want to be called Poles, and they are on two sides so obvious from the point of view of an immigrant of independence barricade. To him, it was unacceptable, incomprehensible, fortunately... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I know. I'm almost done. [[Thank you very much.]] So this law, which we are introducing today, undoubtedly results in an extremely important order in this most important area. If this brings up a discussion, I hope that the last one and that we will be freed from this one barricade in 1920. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u52	Thank you, Senator. And I would like the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that this law is finally ripe for adoption. As I recall from my very distant term of office, because in 2007 and 2011 we also made such attempts, unfortunately, unsuccessfully. It's a good thing it's finally gonna be a success. Of course, I would like this law to have the form that best reflects our intentions and that it can handle all matters, including the issue of monuments. Therefore, I have a proposal for a small amendment which would allow us to take into account the issue of these monuments, which is to use the wording of the building names instead of the wording of the building names, objects. Because, ladies and gentlemen, according to construction law, the building comprises three categories: buildings, buildings and small architecture. The buildings, or one of these categories, also include monuments. In turn, the objects of small architecture include statues. Therefore, if we adopt the broad wording of the construction works, we will have everything covered by this single law. So that I have a legislative proposal to cover as much as possible all the objects that we really want, so that they do not commemorate the totalitarian system. As for the discussion of the historical and political nature itself, I would just like to say one thing so that it can relax a little. atmosphere, à speaking of this unfortunate Louis Varyński. I think it would be really unfair to judge him, and it would only be on the basis that the totalitarian, communist system took him over as a man who doesn't deserve to be commemorated. Because it's important to remember that at that time when he was creating a labor movement, the situation was that he could actually be considered a brave man fighting for a beautiful idea. After all, to be honest, it was largely assimilated, accepted by our beautiful movement, which was the Solidarity, whose idea is reflected also in the system of social solidarityism, and to a large extent in the social teaching of the Church. But as I say, it was unfortunate that his legacy was taken over unfairly, on a Uzurpatorial basis, by a totalitarian system. I would like to appeal to perhaps not very popular here, at least because of our history, Bismarck, but only because I recall him, that he certainly cannot be accused of being a man who had anything to do with any sympathy for socialism or to the totalitarian system in this issue, which communism later presented. He once said words that are worth remembering: whoever wasn't a socialist when he was young has a chance to become a pig. This is a quote from Bismarck, which we consider to be a man certainly superrighteous and fighting not only any major deviation from the course of very authoritarian but also right-wing politics. So this quote points to a blade of truth in this movement that was created by Ludwik Waryński. But all this thinking is, in my opinion, inappropriate, because let's remember one thing: we have in our mouths. 2 explicit reference to those events of the totalitarian system which are related to the years 1944 and 1989. À by way of a proposal to take advantage of certain life stories or ideologies by systems which were then totalitarian and which brought so much evil to the world, it must be said that such injustice met not only Varyński, but also, for example. German history, not anyone but Fryderyk Nietzsche himself, which is also said that Hitler was fascinated by his ideology and that supposedly based on his philosophy he created a Nazi totalitarian system. These are certain things that these dead people had no influence on, and it would be unfair to judge historical figures that brought much or it into the history of philosophy, such as. Nietzsche, whether it's in the history of some social movements, like Varyński, because of the ownership of them by totalitarian systems. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u54	Thank you, Senator. Did you make the amendment in writing? Mr. Senator, have you tabled an amendment in writing? [[Yes.]] Good. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I speak, I would like to address the request to Senator Jackowski, who ended his speech with a certain comparison, quoting a clergyman. But not in the sense of anything meaningless, I think even significant, only unknown to me by name. The Nazism plus Nazism plus German nationalism were fairer because they did not distort the truth, and the communist system, I understand, was worse because it required a confession to the truth, it required a lie. I ask him to cross out this phrase because it is not true. In Silesian lands and in Pomerania lies were demanded, the Nazis demanded lies. They demanded to confess that the Pole was never Polish, because his grandfather lived in the area of German acquisition. I mean, they demanded a lie. But it doesn't matter. If someone didn't confess, it was a shipment, Auschwitz or a bullet to the head. However, in the communist system it happened, and people ran too. And since we're already on the naming level, Apology, I'd like to say that in those areas that I pointed out, the Germans forced... they even removed the names from the tombstones. However, Polish naming was left in the communist system. I do not want to introduce this thread, but it seems that the world has decided that fascism, German Hitlerism, the Third Reich are connected with the most horrible crimes, because they have led to any extermination of many races, many nations, including the Polish people. That's why I'm asking Senator Jackowski to remove this quote from his speech. I do not know if it is full of the words of this clergyman. He might think that I didn't understand it and that he was gonna cross it out at my request. On the other hand, I would like to say that, of course, I am pleased with the finalization of this law, which arose from the inspiration of the local government in the south... Yes, Senator? [[Yes, sir.]] Please, it's okay. ...and which we have accepted. This self-government, recognising the need for change, asked the High House, the Senate, to provide a specific statutory and not only legal support, but above all legal support. [[Positively...]] The Senate responded positively to this and was in full agreement that so many years after the changes in sovereignty and independence, it was time to break with the past that falsely pictured By names, national symbols, objects, whether or not geographical What was the essence of the 1050-year history of Poland, especially the solidarity period. It's called... I think Marshal Borowski was talking about the fact that communism ended with the Round Table. Unfortunately, this is not entirely true, because in fact no one behind the Round Table has declared the end of communism Except for a great actress, but it was just her personal reflection. There was no decree of the liquidation of communism. The Round Table was treated by many as the cornerstone of the Third Republic. I do not want to depreciate the achievements of the Round Table, because I consider it a desirable political act, but in no way could it be the founding act of the Third Republic. Since I was in Solidarity, I can say that Solidarity never called for apologetics in relation to the communist system, did not take the need to keep it in names seriously, even accepted that it was a transitional period, a very incidental period of the history of the Polish state, and never guaranteed that the Round Table would be a symbol of the Third Republic. In these diwags, of course, I could go further and head towards a team that thinks that it has taken over all traditions of Solidarity. All traditions of Solidarity are also August agreements And let me remind you that the August agreements were agreements with the Communists, so whether forced or pretended to adopt the principles of the Soviet system, the communist system. Now, going back to the essence of the law, I am expressing a little concern here, and my question was to activate the Minister, which I have succeeded in... The operation at the moment for technical reasons will be very difficult, because, as I said, the change of names, the removal of monuments is done either by means of revolutionary decrees or provisions, as is the case now in Ukraine or in a conscious way. Poland, a civilized country, has adopted a conscious philosophy. In my opinion, this is a better method, because it is not just a one-time act, but we are dealing with the awareness of where you live and what you have been aiming for. We undoubtedly sought pluralism, truth, solidarity, and therefore we had a communist system in our way, whose signs must be removed. In my opinion, this operation must be carried out... It takes a year or even more time for the consciousness that we have. here and which the Petents addressing the Senate have, was a nationwide consciousness, including the awareness of local communities. I think, even though this bill of ours is an act of power and even an administrative act, since we're including the voivode... It is worth taking advantage of this opportunity and discussing it in schools, in other environments, in, as the Minister said here, civil society. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this law is also being discussed at home. They ask questions about whether we change the names of these streets, objects for ourselves. Do the streets think of Bierut's patrons, Gierka... [[A hawk.]] Add the muzzle, Mr. Marshal... [[Agent.]] If you, Senator Rooster, speak, I will say more: just today on the radio I heard that two more monuments are to be erected... [[Where?]] In Warsaw. [[Voice from the room: Wałęsa?]] Some say: Why change to what we have not yet recognized, what has not been verified? Street names are coming up, and here's a discussion that I don't want to be a souffler in, but I think I have the right, as co-founder of this country, which is going to be forever... I wouldn't want to be a souffler and tell you what names might possibly appear. [[Mieszko I.]] First, let's pay the debt of gratitude. Polish independence, Polish sovereignty, Polish transformations are of course thanks to Poles themselves, but they are also the fruit of huge aid. I am sorry to say that in my region I could not push the idea that one of the schools with which the American ambassador announced cooperation would accept as the patron of Reagan. How many Reagan streets do we have? [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that's for John Paul. II, behind Reagan, in Gorbachev's ignorance, the transformations took place. And yet recently Dietrich Genscher, the undead friend of Poland died. I had the pleasure of... the President of Poland awarded him one of the highest awards. And here is the great role of parliament, because not all politicians in the West have seen this Poland which fights. They wanted peace in the West... how many parliaments, union organizations, churches and individuals participated in this work? On this occasion, should we not express, even to a limited extent, our gratitude? Because our... [[And here, Mr. Senator, we're putting a dot because you've exceeded ten minutes.]] As I said, you can write the most beautiful poems and poems, but it's time to decide everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u56	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanislaw Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I think we need to thank Senator Mammothov dearly. [[For what?]] For working so hard for a long time to get this bill to the Polish Parliament. I would also like to respond to Senator Rulewski's voice. Dear Senator, what kind of obstacle will it be, how will the local governments decide to change the name of Bieruta Street to the name of the Cursed Soldiers? What kind of obstacle would that be? For so many years they were streets of Bieruta and others, which issued decrees to secretly murder Polish heroes. Everyone's talking about Varinski and the others... But let them tell us what Świerczewski was doing, what a man named Moczar was doing. I've been waiting to live to see the moment when the decounization bill comes into force. Hopefully as soon as possible... 'Cause I'm never gonna agree with some senators who glorify... tell you how it was done in Germany, how it was done in the Czech Republic. They may remember what was happening in Poland, what happened in 1956 in Poznań, when the heirs of those whose senators were armed here shot at an innocent boy who held the national flag, the flag of the Republic. He was killed by the shooting of the heirs of those who... They were following orders from those dictators. Maybe we'll remember that too. I'm afraid somebody doesn't know the story. That it was because of the Solidarity movement, which I also represented and represented, that the Berlin Wall fell and that freedom came throughout Central Europe. This is something everyone forgets about today, this word of miraculous solidarity, about these victims in Gdańsk Shipyard and in the mine of Wujek. Dear Lords, eliminate all the names of the streets that refer to those who created the totalitarian system! I agree with Senator Rulewski that if there were no Primate of the Millennium in our beloved homeland, Cardinal Stefan Wyszynski, if there were no Pope, St. John Paul II, if there were no President Reagan in the United States, if there were no great patriots, the Lake Radio Free Europe, Brzezinski in the United States, we would not be discussing decommunization today. Then for all the people of Solidarity, maybe there would be prisons and no one knows what secret judgments would be given. Secret Service, so to speak, would take care of these people. Let's remember about Solidarity, and let's not talk nonsense. If there were no beloved Solidarity, this break of laborers and also of peasants, the Berlin Wall would never fall. We remember 1956, we remember Russia's invasion of Hungary. What were the Czech Republic doing? They let it through. And they agree with Senator Borowski here. They've still kept a star to this day. Because they say, "Maybe it'll come in handy, 'cause the commune will come back." That's how they act. And so I say once again, Dear Lords, let us remember the great people and give names from these great people. I'm in favour of all the names associated with communism disappearing. And to name heroic names, the names of Solidarity. The streets in Poznań should be called Przemka, who died... [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the hall: Strzłkowski.]] Yeah, it is, I know it is, I'm going to the memorial. [[Voice from the room: Romka.]] Yes, Romka, I'm sorry. Romka. Which isn't gonna happen when the government decides that, for example. Is there a street named President Reagan in Grybow? Nothing's gonna happen, my dears. Thank you, Robert, for the initiative we are talking about here. But let's not forget our beautiful story. Let's not forget the history of Solidarity. Because no one would argue here... And if someone introduces an ideology, they only know it's Germans, Czechs... The Germans were sitting under Ulbricht's shoe. And the Czechs were sitting under Dubček's shoe. And the others, Mr. and Mrs. Dear, were sitting under their shoes... [[Honecker.]] Yeah, Honecker. So? And what are we talking about, Mr and Mrs Dear? Ceaușescu... The others were sitting... And now everyone's saying they're heroes, and the Solidarity movement isn't what. It was a heroic move. And with this movement, Europe has really regained its freedom. And I appeal: if we are present, let us speak a powerful truth about who led us to the fact that today we are talking about decommunization. I could say I resented one of the prime ministers. But he's already in God's court, I'm talking about sleep. Mr Mazowiecki It's too big a deal. If there wasn't a big creche then, we'd really have Poland today, so to speak, far ahead. Maybe decommunization would have been sooner. But I'm not pulling that line. God rest his soul. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u58	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Tadeusz Romanchuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say this: I come from Podlasie, this is a multicultural and multi-faith area. And in a small municipality in Podlasie there is a street of the Red Army, until today. I drove there on purpose recently, I thought that name had been changed, but no, it is. That is why I would like to appeal from this point of view. 'Cause it could just be a request. Senators who have tabled amendments would like to withdraw them and support them in their statements by Senator Mammothov. For the Senate to adopt today's bill without any amendments. [[Applause]] And as for the words of Senator Borowski, it is under the authority of Senator Mammothov that he told me that he would not be a voivode in this term. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u60	Thank you, Senator. Now I'm gonna give myself a voice as a debater. I have to say, you're talking senators about something in my surroundings, where I live, that's gone. I am surprised to hear that in such a patriotic Podlaskie province there is still a street of the Red Army. Well, in Pomerania, that's not the problem. I haven't dealt with this problem in many, many years. And it didn't take any special law to make the necessary changes from our point of view, because you can't or shouldn't worship those who deserved to operate the totalitarian system. It can't be that our children still ask, "Who is it?" However, not only were the monuments displayed on the pedestal, also through the names of the squares, streets. This is an exhibition on the pedestal and setting an example for our young people as well. I don't agree with the fact that Hitlerism was less lying. Well, Hitler didn't say he was going to war, that he wanted war. He said he wanted peace and fought for peace. He said that the Germans were attacked, that the Poles occupied the German radio station in Silesia and that the Germans were only defending themselves. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I also want to remind you that from the point of view of certain social ideas, this ideology reminded us of something of the ideology that we have already encountered in our adult lives. Well, the NSDAP party didn't say you, ma'am. It was called Genosse, a companion. [[Voice from the hall: And then they learned Stalin...]] And it was a national socialist party. This is... [[Voice from the room: It was consistent.]] [[The voice from the hall: They had to learn Stalin.]] So this ideology was, too. not only criminal, but also false, and it originated from the same root, the root of such primitive social Darwinism. Darwinism in biology is an important science, I agree with it, but here Darwinism is applied to social sciences, to social activities. After all, from this primitive social Darwinism came the fight of classes, but also the fight of races. Whoever's stronger wins. Those who are stronger impose their ideology and impose their rights as well. He's a sovereign. And that was the ideology. What I'm trying to say is that, of course, there will be problems with this bill. But I would also like to say and remind you that such a law, in fact the same, was tabled in the previous term. [[This bill is a little better.]] She's been changed a little bit, improved, yes. Yeah, but it's important to remind you that this was an initiative. She didn't end with the bill. But of course there will be problems. Yes, there will be problems that need to be solved at local government level, because some people's resumes are not clear. Varyński was called here. I agree with what the senator said. But we also have Broniewski, whom we remember from the period of the Polish People's Republic as an official poet of the then power, while Broniewski was also in the First Brigade, fought, then socialized, communist. There are a lot of these kinds of resumes. Fortunately, in my opinion communism in Poland ended, it ended because the ideology of communism ended. This ideology was struck by a strike in August 1980, an ideology, because it was a workers' strike. The workers were on strike, the working class, which was the leading class, started protesting. Let me put it this way: the group that organized this strike applied Lenin's theory, it was a group of conscious revolutionaries who knew which way to lead, and the masses were also aware. So paradoxically, Lenin's shipyard used Lenin's theory to destroy Lenin's ideology. It was not only what happened that had an impact on Central and Eastern Europe. It was this ideological denial of Lenin ideology that had an impact on communist parties in the West, which were supported by the Soviet Union, but were also a response to some demand, an authentic response to demand in those countries. This caused, the Polish August caused these parts to lose ideological support and fall apart. As we can see, the French Communist Party, which had up to 20% support in free elections, does not actually exist at the moment. There is no such party in Poland either, because PZPR has turned into a different party, a social democratic party, and it is very good that this happened. We don't have a communist party, as it is in Russia or as recently in Ukraine... [[In the Czech Republic.]] [[In the Czech Republic.]] In the Czech Republic, yes, in the Czech Republic, but in the Czech Republic there is a specific situation. Before the war in the democratic Czech Republic, the communist party also reached 15% (17%) Even up to 20% of the support. It was completely different in Poland. I am really happy that a completely different party has been created, which has separated itself from this legacy of communism. I would not like to have such a conversation as I had with the President of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mr Symonenka, a few years ago, because after a half-hour monologue I could sum it up as follows: it was a very interesting conversation, it was an interesting conversation, because I have not heard such views in 30 years. In Poland, such views have disappeared at all. And then there's one last thing. Self-governments will have a problem with those people who are inconclusive. At the same time, I hope that there will be no embarrassing situations in which, for example, it is proposed. removing the name of the street Red Wierchy, because I also heard about such situations. Such actions are, of course, discrediting in the case of such a law. So when it comes to this type of action, there should be caution and some balance. Of course, there will be discussions about whether Waryński should be commemorated, whether it is necessary to remove this Varyński from the names of the streets, as well as from Polish history. And that's where I'd end up. Senator Borowski for the second time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u61	High Senate! It'll be very short. There were different kinds of thank-yous here, so I'd like to thank you too. I'd like to thank Senator Rooster. I'd really like to thank him. In my speech, I spoke very briefly to Senator Jackowski because I wanted to focus on the bill, but Mr Senator. The rooster did it for me and did it brilliantly. Such a crushing criticism of Senator Jackowski's speech, I wouldn't even put it together, I'll be honest with you. I wouldn't be able to. I'm not talking about the fact that when it came from Senator Rooster's mouth, it sounded particularly credible. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u62	Thank you, Senator. [[Voice from the room: Staszku, you still]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Czesław Ryszka and Maciej Łuczak made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by the senators Robert Mamytkow, Jerzy Czerwiński and Zbigniew Cichon. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Tomasz Zdzikot: No.]] No, thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Voice from the room: Now, point six.]] We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 130 and the committee's report in print No 130 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Affairs and Administration, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, Senator Artur Warzocha, to present a report to the committee. Only, Mr. Senator, at 12:00, I'm gonna have to adjourn. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. I don't think I'm gonna take up all the time until 12:00. If the senators have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. As much as I can, as much as I can. Of course, it's about questions about the procedure of the committee. As your marshal mentioned, it is my pleasure to present on behalf of the three joint committees The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, as well as the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, report on the work of the commission on amending the Act on the Polish Charter and some other laws. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 1 April 2016. In turn, the committees gathered on 12 April this year and then leaned on the text of the amended law, working on the material prepared by our Legislative Office. The Legislative Office has submitted a number of comments and proposals for amendments concerning the editorial board, as well as some regulations in the law that came to us from the Sejm. Therefore, the committees ask for amendments to be made to the Act, which you will find in the relevant Senate printing. Now, back to the bill itself... First of all, I would like to say that a representative of the applicants, Mr Michał Dworczyk, attended the committee meeting, whose other duties, among others. The vote in the Seym today prevented us from taking part in the Senate's deliberations, so he asked us to give you an apology. But I hope that there are representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who, if necessary, will answer your questions. The idea behind this amendment of the Polish Charter Act was, first of all, the introduction of an effective tool in the Polish system of law, which will allow financial assistance to those holders of the Polish Charter who expressed their willingness and took steps to settle in Poland. It's like the first segment of change. The second amendment concerns the procedure for submission of applications and the introduction of an additional public administration empowered to accept applications, in addition to a consul who has so far been the sole addressee of applications. The office of voivodeship, because there were conditions, say, extraordinary, in which the holders of the Polish Charter were present outside Poland and who were nationals of other countries. I mean especially what has happened in the last two years in Ukraine. We recall the dramatic situations that our countrymen in Ukraine experienced, e.g. When it was necessary to evacuate Donbass quickly, from Mariupola. There are also situations in other countries where applications and the granting of the Polish Charter can be made difficult by local authorities. In order to prevent and facilitate the submission of applications, this additional public administration, i.e. the voivode, was introduced. In addition, the amendment provides for an extension of the composition and amendment of the existing rules of operation of the Council for Poles in the East, which will continue to be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers, but will be handled by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the light of the amended rules. As I said, the composition of the Council for Poles in the East has been extended To date, it operates as a 6-person membership and will function as a 9-person membership after the revision of these rules. The amendment also concerns the way in which the State finances this task. It will be implemented from the special reserve of the State budget and the authorising officer of these measures The Minister for Home Affairs will be in line with the amendment and the authority empowered to monitor their spending. The exemption from consular fees related to the submission of applications and the issue of the Polish Kart will also be introduced. Financial aid granted under the amended Act will cover a period of 9 months and will be equivalent to 50% within the first 3 months the minimum wage for the work in force during the year of application for the benefit, for the applicant and his spouse and the equivalent of 50% that amount for each minor child under the parental authority of the applicant or his spouse; and for the period from the fourth to the ninth month 60%, respectively. the amounts mentioned. In addition, the amendments proposed by both the legislator and our joint committees are of a sequencing nature and relate to vacathio legis. If the senators have any questions, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u64	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u65	Art. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 says that: a person who applies for a permanent residence permit with reference to the circumstances referred to in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 9 of the Act of 1 December 2013 on Foreigners, has the right to apply for a one-off grant for a period of up to 9 months of payment intended for partial payment of costs of development and maintenance in the Republic of Poland. The mere fact of applying for an authorisation is already a prerequisite for applying for and receiving a cash benefit, right? Because that's what this article says. What happens if, for some reason, such a person does not obtain this authorisation and receives a cash benefit? Will it then be obliged to repay the amount received, or will the subsequent payments only be withheld?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u66	There will be a suspension of payments, as the senator mentioned, and I interpret it in such a way that such a person will be obliged to return.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u67	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you some questions. Will this aid be financed by the state budget? [[Yeah, from the special reserve.]] What do you expect... Which legislator provides for the costs of this assistance, i.e. How many people will apply for this assistance in the first year, in the second year, and how much will it cost? The target reserve is not without bottom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u68	Mr. Marshal, I do not recall at the moment what amount in this year's budget was reserved for this purpose in the Budget Act. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a certain monitoring mechanism has been introduced, i.e. The Minister responsible for Home Affairs shall monitor the use of the limit of appropriations planned in the Budget Act for the payment of cash benefits. That's what the revised article says. 24c. The following shall be added: where the total amount resulting from claims for cash benefits with a payout date for a given year reaches the equivalent of: 1) 75% the amount planned in the Budget Act for the payment of cash benefits in the case of applications with a maturity of payment in the year of transmission of the application to the old town; 2) 50% of the amount of the limit of appropriations, in the case of applications with a payout due after one year of transmission of the application to the Old Town Minister responsible for Home Affairs, shall announce in the Public Information Bulletin that the receipt of applications for cash benefits with a payout date is suspended and the old men shall refrain from receiving such applications. This is a mechanism that should effectively protect us from, as we say, hyperplasia or from situations where action... maybe not action, but scale of applications for the Polish Charter... of course, I mean only benefits. It's going to exceed the safe limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u69	Mr. Senator Rulewski... I'm going to ask the same question to the Minister, because that's more or less counted. But from what you're saying, there might be a situation that the first ones will get, and the next ones won't get it, which is that there would be some inequality here. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u70	Mr. Marshal, you have given me your insight, because I would like to ask similar questions. Namely, the question is: doesn't this law say good morning, Pole, but it says, "Watch out where you're going?" Because it is in financial terms that these benefits are said to be And that's one of the basic assumptions in the law. It may not be, it may not be enough. In other words, especially those from the East who come to earth unattended for them will not receive up to 900 PLN for the good morning. The question is, do you share my view? And what was done in the committee to make this harsh record, such an apology, of a different form?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u71	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u72	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I do not share this view, nor can I subscribe to such a statement, under the term you used, namely that it is a mechanism that dispels our compatriots from the territory of the Republic of Poland. I will say this: we live in certain conditions and budgetary realities, we are all responsible, both for the Chamber and, above all, for the government of the Republic of Poland, for the sustainability of public finances. We measure our forces against our intentions and in this way we have introduced such a monitoring mechanism and a security mechanism rather than another. Nor do I think that we will create an atmosphere in our country, in our country, which, by means of the amended regulations discussed, would cause what God's weapons the legislator did not mean, that is, the phenomenon of extortion or discouragement of our fellow countrymen. On the contrary, I think that all this amendment I have here has thoughts all the rules It clarifies, improves, it can be said: it repeals doors more widely for Poles who want to settle in Poland. Please note that so far the provisions of the Polish Charter Act, as well as the provisions of the Repetition Act, have treated this issue. We have, among others. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which monitored, or actually investigated, controlled the problem of repatriation in years, if I recall correctly, 2007 and 2012. It is clear in this report that the rules are ineffective and that the public administration NIK specifically referred to the ministers responsible for these issues. It didn't stand up to the task.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u73	Mr. Senator Rulewski again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u74	Then maybe the government too... I'm continuing what you said to Marshal Borusewicz in the question of whether it was necessary to determine the amount so that these people I'm already gonna get this tone too sharp. They were aware that e.g. The half-year's money has already been spent and there's nothing to count on. Because there's no amount written in here. [[Voice from the room: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u75	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u76	Well, there's the amount, Mr. Senator. Firstly, it is included in the budget of the State for this purpose, here we are talking about the special reserve. In addition, the provisions clarify it, provide an indicator. This indicator is the minimum wage level for work. And that's the indicator that's being published. The amended provisions of our law are talking about the equivalent of 50% or 60% that amount So it's easy to calculate. Senator, I must tell you that as a member of the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad, I have already received questions and calls from interested people who have come to me in various ways. And it turns out... I draw the conclusion from these conversations that these people have full knowledge of the amount of benefits, giving specific amounts, asking for confirmation. We can't write rigid amounts in the bill, you know that. But... [[Senator Jan Rulewski: Globally...]] The global amount shall be entered in the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u77	I have to stop these questions and announce a break. Thank you, Senator, we'll come back to the questions. I'm declaring a recess until 2:00 p.m.... [[Voice from the room: Still messages.]] Please. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u78	First communiqué. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, buildings and public utility facilities will take place today half an hour after the announcement of the break in room 217. And the second message. The meeting of the National Defence Commission on the examination of the requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory will take place at 12.15 in room No. 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u79	Time-out until 2:00. [[Adjournment from 12 hours minutes 00 to 14 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u80	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. We return to asking questions of the rapporteur of the committee. Let me remind you that the rapporteur is Senator Artur Warzocha. Would any of your senators like to ask the rapporteur another question? Senator Rybicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. During the committee's work, has there been issues related to the inclusion of the Polish Charter Act, i.e. the extension of the scope of the law, our compatriots from other countries? Well, Poles are e.g. Bukovina, Zaolzie. In many places in the world are our compatriots, and according to art. 52 of the Constitution anyone who confirms the Polish origin has the right to residence, to permanent residence in Poland. Did the committee raise this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u82	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u83	Dear Senator, the Polish Charter Act regulates this matter precisely by mentioning in the article. 2 (2) 2 15 countries which fall within its problem scope. At the meeting of the joint committees, this thread, if I recall correctly, did not appear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u84	Thank you very much. Do any of you want to ask the rapporteur any more questions? No. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[If there are no questions, Mr. Marshal, I would like to clarify one thing that was mentioned before the recess.]] Of course, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u85	It is about the amount of budget resources allocated to help Poles applying for repatriation and help Poles who hold the Polish Charter, who will apply for Polish citizenship. Well, in this year's budget, as I was able to clarify it, this task was not foreseen, but in the budget law for 2016 30 million PLN was saved for the task: repatriation of Poles. Perhaps, but it is difficult to prejudice this, next year, if the provisions of the Polish Charter Act are already amended, a similar amount will be earmarked for this purpose and saved in the Budget Act for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u86	Thank you very much. Again: do you have questions for the rapporteur? No. The bill was introduced by the Sejm Committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but are you authorized to... [[Voice from the hall: Minister is on his way.]] I'm asking you to call the minister so I know how long it's gonna take to announce... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, there's the minister. Welcome, Minister. Absolutely just in time. So once again, the bill was filed by the Sejm committee. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Of course.]] Come on in. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you very much.]] We're discussing the Polish Charter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to thank you very much for the many amendments that you, as a higher chamber, have made to this law. The law has been in force for seven years now. It was a very necessary tool for cooperation with Poles in the East, for cooperation with Poles from the area of the former Soviet Union as a law declaring belonging to our community, to our nation. After 7 years, of course, it requires changes, adjustments. Hence the parliamentary initiative. Thank you again for these amendments. I would like to assure you once again that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs respects the institution of the Polish Charter very much and also supports the amendments tabled by Parliament. Our position is positive. At this moment, we are waiting for the final version of your revised law, ready to implement this version and continue to cooperate, to take care of our fellow countrymen abroad. We are also pleased with these elements of the law that you have corrected, which will help the Polish state, the Polish government, in an even more effective migration policy, calculated for many years ahead. It is worth learning from the experience of other EU countries. It is important to avoid the negative effects we sometimes see in connection with the wrong migration policy pursued by our allies, even within the European Union. Hence the wise solutions proposed in this amendment, enabling people who identify with our community, with Polish culture, history, tradition, language, people who are Poles who want to live in Poland, who want to co-create our community here in Poland. Therefore, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is definitely positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u88	Thank you. I'm asking you to stay here for a while. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rybicki came forward to ask the question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u89	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in connection with the amendment of the law, we should expect an increased interest of our compatriots in the Polish Charter. I would like to ask what steps the Ministry provides to reach with information policy, but also with consular assistance to Poles who are scattered in the very broad territory of the former Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u90	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u91	Thank you kindly, Minister, for this question. Of course, this amendment will be a challenge for consular services operating in the former Soviet Union. We want to inform about new opportunities related to the Polish Charter to reach the widest possible number of Poles. Thus, on the one hand, strengthening our institutions in the East, strengthening our personnel, but on the other hand we have been working together for a long time, and we intend to intensify this cooperation even further, with NGOs, Polish organizations, Polish organizations or Polish organizations. The structures of the Roman Catholic Church in the East, which also for many of our compatriots, for the vast majority of our compatriots, are an important link, if one can say so, of the institutions connected with the spiritual dimension. In any case, in this social dimension it is an important tool for integrating the Polish environment. Of course, we will also cooperate with these partners by presenting them with new opportunities from the possession of the Polish Charter. We are talking about people who already have a Polish Charter, who need to be informed about new opportunities, and about searching for new, more Poles who have not yet had the opportunity to get this card.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u92	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two short questions, but I think it's important for technical reasons. As far as the issue of applications is concerned, the novel proposes And it's really nice. That it is possible to apply for an extension or to obtain a card also at the office of the voivodeship, but in Article. 1 pkt 8 of the novel does not explicitly state that the Council of Ministers will appoint such a voivode. Am I to understand that not every voivode can be appointed, or is it planned that in all voivodships the voivod will have the authority of the Council of Ministers to perform these two tasks related to the card? That was the first question. The second relates to the benefits that will be granted by the old-timer in this mode. This is the case: the person arrives, applies for a card, submits documents and applies for assistance As the rapporteur has reported, such aid can be granted and, in the meantime, obtains employment and is engaged in some minor service work. Is this financial aid due or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u94	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u95	Thank you, Senator. Of course, we will speak in detail on this subject in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u96	I understand that a government representative has committed himself to providing a written reply. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u97	First question. What size are you predicting, that is, how many people will benefit, of course, from the revised law next year? Because we already know that this year will not be a good comparative plane... Two. Don't you think, Minister, that this card is asymmetrical? It is directed exclusively to Poles living in areas where they were displaced, repatriated within the Soviet Union. Yet they might as well benefit from this Polish Charter, in my opinion, from citizens who have resided and resided in other areas: Turkey, Kenya, where Poles fled from Russia or even Iran, but also... Why not, Minister? Why could a Pole who unfortunately had to accept American citizenship not use the Polish Charter rather than hide behind the second passport that is banned in America?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u98	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. The Polish Charter is a project aimed at Poles living in the former Soviet Union. This is not a coincidence, because the presence of Poles in the former Soviet Union involves many dramatic events. Let us remember that as far as the borders of I and II of the Republic of Poland are concerned, Poles living there never left Poland. They've always been there. It was the boundaries that moved as a result of various dramatic historical events. In addition, there are also Poles in the Asian part of the Soviet Union. These are the most common people who were exported there, of course, we are talking about Kazakhstan, about Siberia, about those who were subjected to repression, whether in the 19th century or in the 20th century, because they were Poles. In the case of these people, the legislator in 2007 wanted to introduce a tool that would make amends and which would confirm that he was a member of the Polish nation. In fact, dual citizenship is not practiced in these countries, so such a document was necessary. When it comes to Polonia, Poles who left Poland once... According to various estimates In fact, I don't have to say this because we're in the Senate and you're experts in this area. From 10 million to 20 million of our compatriots are outside the country. Of course, we have many proposals for our fellow countrymen abroad. Polish State Whether it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Senate recently again It has various tools to help our fellow countrymen abroad. However, we are not able to embrace the whole world institution of the Polish Charter. The Polish state simply cannot bear it. And yes, let me remind you, the institution of the Polish Charter was a certain event. With the Evenement that has been mentioned for almost 20 years since 1989, but no one has introduced anything like this. It was only during the short rule of law and justice that this law was finally introduced. Then there was a period of 8 years of validity of this law introduced in 2007. There were no amendments, there were no proposals for extending the Polish Charter. The question is, why was it so, I'm gonna go to you more. And now we're... This Act on the Polish Charter is particularly important for us, and this is the result of the amendments proposed by us. Already now, Dear Members, I would like to encourage the High House, as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, responsible for cooperation with Poles abroad, with Polonia I am a member of the House of Parliament, like you. To allow him to consider such an initiative of the Senate to introduce a Polish senator, elected by Polonia. So that one of the one-mandate electoral districts to the Senate would be a strict district. Polonia. I think this is a very interesting proposal to make in the Senate, so that it is a senator's initiative. As far as such proposals are concerned, addressed to all Poles in the world, especially those with dual citizenship, including Polish citizenship, i.e. representatives of the Polish and Western world, this would be an excellent solution, which would have many dimensions. First of all, in the Senate, she'd be... You are all excellent representatives of Polonia, I often meet with senators who are very clear and professionally presenting the interests of Polonia. In this case, the senator would be indicated directly by the above mentioned environments. In addition, it would be a beautiful testimony for Poles in the country, reminding them that we have such a large group of compatriots abroad, and once again accentuating how important the Senate plays a role in the process of communicating compatriots abroad with the country. You are playing a decisive leading role here. And by the way, there is another very practical and extremely important civic aspect: the prospect of choosing such a senator, a direct representative, would certainly increase attendance among Poles voting abroad. I know you have such ideas in this House, in the Senate, and I really approve of them. We, as a government, as a government, or Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, as part of a political project, have a number of ideas addressed to all Poles in the world, Poles in the East and the West. [[Thank you very much...]] [[I haven't gotten an answer to the first question yet.]] Oh, about the scale... Yeah, yeah, sorry, Mr. Senator. Of course, we will accept every number of our compatriots. We want this number to be as large as possible. Dear people, when it comes to the holders of the Polish Charter, who, after their permanent stay, after receiving citizenship, already de iure, would live among us, of course we think that this is a proposal... The more, the better. The more, the better. We care very much, for obvious reasons, also because of a demographic challenge, that it's a very short term for new citizens to come to us. Coming to the country of Poles, coming to the country of people who have documented belonging to the Polish people, is actually the best possible solution. They will be among us simply Poles living in the country, their children will be... The experts say even We've been looking into it, too. That the differences will be unnoticed after the first generation. And that's in plus. Integration will be almost 100%.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u100	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Czarnobaj. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jan Dziedziczak: Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you kindly.]] Stay with us, or you'll have the opportunity to discuss it. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill does not cause controversy and indeed I'm not gonna say it's a good change. It is a better legal description of reality, why three decades after we have gained sovereignty we should express ourselves as the High Chamber. I don't want to start a discussion about whether it was possible earlier or if there was more... I said it's a good and necessary change, because it improves the existing state. I think that the basis is that Poland has achieved success, also material, and is able to be more generous and open to the problems of Poles living in such areas where they were subjected to persecution, export and other repression. This time, previous times, period, so to speak, before free Poland... In these areas the material reality of Poles was and is different. Just as part of the state... As part of, let's say politely, the central planning economy of the supply state, as we talked about the countries of the block... They're tied to a lot of material threads. I don't want to say "strings" to that place. They're tied down through a pension system, and it's through small property. It has been combated, but for several years in some and even in all republics reform processes have taken place. And that's through family relationships. It is also true that the situation in Poland is not a paradise. My experience of staying in former republics such as Ukraine, Armenia or recently Kyrgyzstan shows that there is no great pressure to return, especially among the older generation, although the Polish state used a very friendly policy that aimed to first visit the country and get acquainted with possible permanent residence. Although religious and national tensions still exist in these areas, in conversations, especially with the older generation... They're very worried about obvious and mundane things. It'd be wrong for them to think of it as some sort of isolationism. .. such as pensions, health benefits, small assets in the form of housing, e.g. Kyrgyzstan is almost free of charge. And when they want and make a difficult decision, everyone around them knows that this property is going to be cashed, sometimes it's going to be a tenth of the amount, because it's going to be forced... All this causes that on the one hand there is no great pressure, and on the other hand there is no sucking in local governments to solve the problems of their starting on this land, which for many years was not available to them. She was also unreachable by the fact that language barriers, national barriers were created, there were phenomena of mixed marriages, mixed bonds, blending into reality. With that in mind, I believe that this law, with many advantages Because it facilitates the processes of obtaining visas, residences, grounding in the municipalities of the Polish State, it even responds to professional activation, providing assistance in the field of training, obtaining a job, helping entrepreneurs who carry out quite difficult task of adapting these people to positions in a new reality But it is, Minister, the Dear Assembly, the High Commission, a little soulful. There is a breach in the form of a permanent benefit of half the minimum net remuneration, that is good, or 900 PLN in the pocket, and on each family member, on children, there is half of this amount, or 400 PLN. But if we could talk to each other like this, let's say, peacefully... There is nothing here that is applied in practice and what we all apply when we go out to land we don't know. There's no allowance, there's nothing to start with. Here someone will find himself in Warsaw reality, let's assume, there will be a disease of children. 'Cause we're talking about kids. You need to buy a medicine, you may even need to use a taxi, because it is difficult in this thicket of wonderful streets to find, you may need to buy textbooks, you may need to buy some equipment... There are random cases, we all know that, and they also touch people civilizedly rich, and even more so such people. That's why my proposal is very moderate. On behalf of the Civic Platform, I propose, however, that the same amount, which is half the minimum wage, and for each member of the family, be allocated to the children, half of it, or a quarter. This will make it possible to move on this earth with greater certainty. And of course, since it's supposed to be a tiny rescue wheel, we're suggesting that this fund, this one benefit, be run in immediate mode, without looking at the old man's decisions. And then the old-timer checks if there's any state money for these purposes. At least this should be done in a guaranteed, transparent and immediate manner. This is what I urge all those interested who really want to make it easier and better. Thank you, Mr. Marshal and High Izbo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to start by saying a few words about the initiative taken by the Sejm itself and the consequence of which is the procedure of this law in the Senate. I'm glad. And here I am presenting my own position. The fact that there have been intensive and at the same time highly thought-out work, which has resulted in concrete legislative action. I am pleased that we have returned to this document after so many years that we managed to sum up the results of the Act in mid-December last year, to show success, but also to point out some shortcomings. I don't want to say "bugs," because I don't think you can say "bugs" in this case. - and draw very concrete conclusions from this. This is very valuable, you can see that this work has been started in a very thoughtful way, and this is how I think it should be addressed to this problem. We as a Polish country have a great obligation to our compatriots, all the compatriots who live outside the borders of the Republic. But, of course, we feel a great moral obligation to make amends in some sense to all those who, not of their own free will and for reasons independent of them at some specific historical moment, found themselves outside the borders of Poland. This moral obligation, of course, is addressed primarily to those Poles whose fates pushed somehow beyond the borders of the Republic of Poland, i.e. those who live east of Bug both in the European part and in the Asian part of the former Soviet Union. Let me remind you that in this sense we are fulfilling our obligation under the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and individual laws, including the Polish Charter Act, are a kind of extension of this obligation, clarify... they select the appropriate instruments for the purpose of carrying out this task, which follows, as I mentioned earlier, from the Constitution. Of course, the law must be an efficient tool, it must be a tool by which these tasks can be carried out. And it seems to me that after the experience that brought us a relatively short history of this law, things are going in a very good direction in this case. It is worth noting that, in carrying out this, as I mentioned earlier, moral obligation to our fellow countrymen living outside the country also weighs well our capabilities. These opportunities mainly come down to our financial capacity as a state. The implementation of this task, its funding is provided for by public funds. We too, as I mentioned earlier, should be very concerned about the state of public finances. Therefore, I hope that with these provisions of the amended law, all this will be realized and that we will not lead to any catastrophe... Although the disaster cannot, of course, be discussed, the point is that we will not bring any problems onto the head of Polish taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth paying attention to the tasks which the public administration must carry out during the performance of this task and during the implementation of the law, including, among others, the Ministry of Interior and Administration, which under the amendment is obliged to keep appropriate registers and to ensure that the documents used by our countrymen in the form of the Polish Charter never fall into the wrong hands. This means that these documents need to be kept in a very precise and detailed manner, and that they must be kept in records and made sure that, when they are no longer valid or no longer necessary, they return to the authority which issues them. And here, after consulting the representatives of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs, I would like to make concrete amendments Of course, in a moment I will submit them in writing, which will clarify the mode of issuing, the mode of returning and recording this document, which is the Polish Charter. Furthermore, I would very much like to ask the senators and the entire High House that all the amendments that have been proposed by the joint committees gain your approval, because they are very precise in drafting, ordering, referring, as I said, to the provisions of other laws, as well as precisely defining the vacathio legis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u104	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I sign up for the whole idea, and I'm happy because, finally, I hope, the Senate will adopt the Polish Charter Act. And that it will become a reality. Because it is still expected by Poles, who for various reasons, mostly tragic and painful, found themselves on foreign lands, mainly beyond our eastern border. These Poles are, unfortunately, less and less. The point is to pay tribute and some of those who wanted to return to Poland or easier arrivals to Poland, to the cemeteries where they left their loved ones I'm also thinking of Eastern Poland. Who didn't live to see the law passed at that moment. And now a few words about the history of this bill. It is good that in Parliament, and in the Seym, and in the Senate, there is an exchange of generations and new senators come. But I think it's also good if someone remembers the old days. And I would like to remind you here that these matters, matters of Poles abroad, are, as we know, the Senate's responsibility. And to allow these Poles to return, or to provide them with easier arrivals from the beginning, has been at our heart since the establishment of the Higher Chamber in 1989. This was in the heart of the first Speaker of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, a sacred memory of Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski. I would like to remind you that very intensive work on the 3 laws continued during the Senate Fourth term, when the marshal was Mrs. Alicia Grześkowiak. Then it's on the Contact Committee with Polonia. Janina Sagatowska was the president, and now the President of the Republic of Poland was happily again working in parallel on several laws, exactly 3 laws: on Polish citizenship, on the Polish Charter and on repatriation. It was the Senate's initiative, too. And they were so close to us that I, who wasn't on this committee... Mr Stanisław Gogacz worked on these laws as well. So the whole Senate lived on this issue. And with this speech, I would like to express my memory and appreciation for those who have started this work. Well, unfortunately, there wasn't a... As you know, the AWS coalition The Freedom Union was very difficult and we failed to implement these laws by the Sejm. Then there were lost elections and neglect or omission by the next Senate, the SLD. Two years later, the rule of law and justice And here we must mention the sacred memory of Marshal Maciej Płażyński, who also started to process the Polish card, but these works were not finished either. Well, we're lucky to make it to the port. And this will probably be of great benefit not only for Poles who are waiting for this document, but also for us here, because we would... We shouldn't worry about our countrymen coming to us and we're going to keep them. I suspect that in practice most young people will come here, who want to find their place, will learn, will take a job and will not be a burden for the Polish country after a short adjustment period. And if the elderly want to come to Poland again, I would like it to be so, and I think we should take it as a point of honor. We should ensure that they are maintained, they will certainly not ruin our economy. I remember my speech in these cases a dozen years ago, and then we all lived on the cost of living. Even though they're already out of town, The Soviet troops in Poland. I come from Legnica, where more than 1/2, although maybe not that much, but certainly 2/5 of the city was in total ruin after Soviet troops left the city. Poor Peerelowska Poland had the means to maintain the Red Army in our country for almost half a century. But then it was discussed that there was no money for our compatriots who were sent down and who were hurt not only that they had to live away from their homeland, but also that they had the Soviet Union in their personal evidence. It was especially painful for those who were born in the lands annexed by the Yalta system and had the Soviet Union as their birthplace in evidence, although of course they were born before the war... This pain of people, this expectation and longing for the country was many; now maybe there is less, because because of our many years, well, neglect and omissions these people did not arrive in Poland anymore. But, as I said at the beginning, it is good that we finally regulate these matters with this law and Poles or people of Polish origin, all those who want to come to Poland permanently or only visit Poland will have some facilitation. I would like to thank the committee, the President and the State of the Ministry, all those who, in this relatively short period of time since the new parliamentary hand, worked effectively and led to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u106	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not that the richer the society, the more open it is and the more it is to accept and share with others, the right, at the beginning of the 1990s we were much poorer, and we accepted those who needed it, including our compatriots, people of Polish origin, and we helped them much more willingly. Then through Poland, through the refugee centers in Poland more than 86 thousand Chechens. Today we are twice as rich, or maybe two and a half times richer than we were then, and let's see how we feel about others. Let us see how we respond to the call of Pope Francis, who says: help, as I help, those who escape from oppression. And this unfortunately applies and will apply to our fellow countrymen as well. This bill... I don't think it's open. This is an alley. Why? That's because we have a repatriate bill. And I think if we're gonna open ourselves up to repatriation, ♪ and we should do it ♪ We should change this law, adapt it to the present time. And the government has to give money. Well, in a situation where we have a law that introduces repatriation by means of the Polish Charter, this is not the way. And this can be seen from the organizational, formal side. All those organs about the Pole Card... The main body will be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and should be in the Ministry of Home Affairs, because the local authorities will continue to do so. After all, it is known that Poland is largely Polish resort and the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has much more opportunities to contact and influence the decisions of local governments. So the problem can be seen from the organizational side. Now it's a question of money. There's $30 million on this bill right now. The 30 million came from the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not perform the repatriation at the level envisaged. There's 30 million left. And now, instead of changing that bill, we move these funds to the Polish Charter and do, or rather we want to do repatriation through the Polish Charter. This is also not good in substance, because the control of repatriation from start to finish should, however, be government control. Consul and then the decision of the Ministry in Warsaw This should be fully under government control. The Polish Charter was intended to serve something completely different, and at the moment we are building it so that it serves completely something else: granting Polish citizenship and now repatriation. The government must control this repatriation. He has to find the money and control it. On the basis of this bill there will be more complaints than benefits. There's 30 million, there's 30 million right now. If that $30 million is used, those who come will not be helped. And they will resent all of us, the government and all of us. And you're right. Those who arrive early will receive support. And the others? I mean, they're gonna want that kind of support, too. What about next year? What about another year? 30 million left at the Home Office. So I think you had to go and you have to follow the method based on the repatriation bill. This is a sure method, you can estimate how much money... For 10,000 repatriates It takes just over 0.5 billion, about 520 or 540 million zlotys. And that's the money I need. You can spread them out for years, of course, you can spread them out for years. But it's not a good thing to be fascinated by introducing other laws here. Well, I would even say that it would be better to add this 30 million to the scholarship pool for our fellow countrymen from the East. Because naturally, it's also repatriating. Only in a natural way. Most of these young people stay in Poland, I think 80% of those from the East, and they bring families here, bring parents, grandparents, etc. You could think of such help. In any case, this kind of strengthening of the scholarship fund for our fellow countrymen would be much more useful and more effective. Why do I still think that this road you're proposing is not good? The Polish card is received or can be obtained not only by people of Polish origin, for whom we have a constitutional obligation. The card of the Pole can be obtained, received by activists of Polish organizations, not necessarily by Poles. There's also, so to speak, a certain thinness of this repatriation through the Pole's Card. Although I believe that, in addition to supporting birthdays, a policy supporting an increase in the number of birthdays, repatriation policy is a very important issue and this would have to be considered in its entirety. We have repatriating resources. They are, of course, not limited to people of Polish origin, but this is another issue. However, I would urge you to consider how you can change the repatriation bill so that you can perform repatriation in a more intense way, in such a way that about 2.5 1000a That's it right now. Our compatriots in Kazakhstan have not waited for 7 or 10 years. It is primarily a matter of money. I take this bill as a prosthesis. I think it would be appropriate to return to the repatriation bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u108	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gogach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u109	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! It seems that in a situation where the Law on repatriation of 2000 simply does not work, so it must be said, and the new law, as I know it, is now being prepared, I do not know whether in the government or in the Seym... Let us hope that soon this bill will reach us, and then, of course, we will be able to debate the repatriation bill. As Mr Marshal said just now, the accents that are currently in the bill, the accents placed on local governments, should, however, be placed on government institutions so that government institutions are more responsible for repatriation, because repatriation is a very serious matter. The fact that nothing important has been happening in repatriation since 2000 is, of course, a great shame for us I repeat, great shame. During the reign of the previous coalition, a small amendment to the Repatriation Act was carried out, but it did not bring anything significant in terms of the records we are discussing. However, we have a national privilege law, we have a Polish Charter Act. With regard to earlier discussions, not only to the current debate, but generally to the discussions that are taking place on issues related to the return of Poles from abroad As some say, I would like to make it clear to ourselves... And I think that right here in the Senate, which is called to this honorable function of caring for Poles abroad, we should say to ourselves that we are not talking about Poles who are out there and who can come to us as guests, but we are talking about Poles who have the same right to live here, in Poland, to exercise the rights that they are here, like each of us. The border during the war period was established on the Bug, and it could have been set on the Vistula, could have been fixed elsewhere. After all, it could have touched any one of us. At this point we are dealing with representatives of the Polish people who have not renounced citizenship. I am aware of the situation, I have been informed about them, staying in countries across the eastern border... I know that there are Poles who have not returned their passport issued yet in the interwar period. They have it despite the fact that it involved various perturbations. In the current constitution, we have a record that tells us when you can lose your citizenship. It can be lost when a person simply renounces his citizenship when he consents to it. And those we are talking about here are Poles who were forced to take away Polish citizenship. Senator Rulewski mentioned double citizenship. Yes, there is a double and a double in the world, and there is an institution of dual, triple and perhaps quadruple citizenship. In fact, Mr. Senator, there would be a better solution. It would be a perfect solution. In order to ensure that Poles who have never renounced citizenship and because of different conditions want to create a local community... The idea is that, apart from the citizenship that they currently have, they will still have Polish citizenship, i.e. that they have double citizenship. After all, and it has also been said here, it will not be so that all Poles will immediately get on a plane and come to us. That's not gonna happen because they already have their new environments. But when it comes to the younger generation that he is studying in Poland, he will be very happy to benefit from it. Returning to this topic again, I would like us to remember that we are talking about Poles Hence the distinction: Polonia and Poles. Poles living in... When you're across the eastern border and you're talking about them, they're taking it the wrong way. It is not a coincidence that we say "Polonia" and "Polish Poles." We are saying 'Polish' because it has a deep justification not only emotional, but also legal, formal. Now we're talking about the Polish Charter. You can talk about it and in the legal sphere, which is happening here, and in the emotional sphere. After all, many of us... When we are abroad, we often take part in the official transfer of the Pole's Charter, mostly in the consulate. The Polish card, as far as the technical page is concerned, looks like an ID card: it is a cardboard box, a plastic card that is handed out. Many Poles receive this box, which is the Polish Charter, i.e., in the legal sense of this national privilege, treats it as if they received Polish citizenship. They feel that Poland has not forgotten those compatriots who live across the eastern border, who have found themselves there regardless of whether they wanted it or not. And it is not that everyone looks at the Polish Charter only through the prism that they are about to come to Poland and enjoy various privileges, they will benefit from the rights that the present law gives them. We as a Polish country are morally obliged to simply hand this card to them. There is a problem that Poles from the East signal us about the possibility of receiving this card in an organizational sense. It's different in different countries. I am already saying that at least at the beginning, when we introduced this card, some governments looked at it so that we are interfering with the lives of the citizens of their country. But that's not what I want to talk about, and I want to say that there aren't enough employees in many consulates, not enough, in short, consuls. Very often this is due to the fact that the country does not agree to... or simply we as Poland send too few consuls. I think at the committee meeting we should consider where the cards are most needed. Poles have been waiting for them for a long time, there are often Internet queues, etc. Not everyone deals with this when it comes to the organizational side, so that the facilitations are certainly helpful. I was probably four or five years ago asked by a group of students from across the eastern border to be the initiator of the amendment to the Polish Charter Act in terms of health events, so that, at least as far as students are concerned, the holder of the Polish Charter was not limited to the use of health care only in emergency situations, but just in any situation, just like any citizen of the Polish State, could use it. And to be honest, I once forgot that the subject range of this change only applies to students, I thought we introduced a record that applies to all holders of the Polish Charter. Very quickly I realized that it does not apply to all Poles. If I bring this up on this occasion, it would probably be good to consider whether the holder of the Polish Charter should not have the right not only to take a job in order to apply for a permanent stay, but also to ask for medical advice on a preventive issue in situations not exceptional, but in ordinary situations. Because we know that, especially the doctor who was in this debate before me, knows that some health benefit, which may not be unusual, is very important because the disease can turn into something very serious. So, that without prolonging my speech, I would like to say that Poles, as a result of my discussions, very much for this change of the Charter Act are waiting, treat multifaceted the possibility of having this card. It is a signal that Poland sends to Poles living there, that we remember them. And as Marshal Borusewicz said, as much as possible, the repatriation bill should be here as soon as possible. As far as financial issues are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we should consider them in the context of what I said at the very beginning. If we approach it as I said at the beginning, that is, that we treat all Poles as one Polish family, then did anyone see a family of strict meaning that would say, for example, to one of their members: we do not have money for your education, etc.? No. So that by analogy we also treat Poles as one family, for which there should be no shortage of resources. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u110	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Warzocha. Second appearance, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Senator Gogacz very warmly for what he just said. As you can see, the experience of Senator Gogach and his long-standing work in the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, as well as his very broad and numerous contacts with Poles living abroad, make it possible to do such a very factual and reliable synthesis of all these problems which today focus on this issue. First of all, I am very grateful for what Senator Gogacz said about Poles who, despite various barriers, difficulties, floors of unnecessary difficulties, take steps to get this Polish Charter, what they would like. At least that's how I read those intentions. To manifest their attachment to the Polish people, their national identity, and often their roots, their loved ones. It's very valuable. Practice shows that especially beyond our eastern border, receiving a Pole's Card does not give them any extra profits there. We as a Polish state are not able to interfere in any way, we are only able to influence, ask the local authorities, the state authorities of a given country to respect our legislation and also to respect the will which Poles express. I mean here, among other things. Everything that's going on... Because, of course, we say we should open up and do everything we can to get our countrymen back. And what I am talking about here is the more difficult situation that occurs in the former Soviet republics, especially in the Asian part, but also in Ukraine, Belarus or where Poles are experiencing some problems. For such Poles the homeland of their grandparents and fathers... Her painting is often so idealized. And we, as a country, need to do everything we can to make sure that when these people get here, they don't collide too violently with... As far as we can, we should tone down and mitigate the effects of their coming back here, as reality can... There may be some undesirable differences here. And we'd like to do everything we can to avoid this problem. I also mentioned the Republic of Lithuania, whose citizens, including Poles, are also members of the European Union. And the possession of the Polish Charter in their case is actually a reference to a certain symbol and manifesting its Polishness. And they're doing it, like I said, even though sometimes they might encounter some of it. Let me put it so diplomatically. Social problems. And it may be better not to further develop this subject. I would also like to refer to what Marshal Borusewicz said. Of course, Mr Marshal and Mrs Senators, the Repetition Act is a basic instrument or legal instrument that should be used in these cases. A bill that is currently in force... And from the government That's what Senator Gogacz was talking about. Many times it has already been announced that work is underway on this act. I hope it will materialize again this year. From what I have heard, it appears that applicants are now accompanied by one such basic assumption: that this legal instrument should be an effective instrument. What we managed to do during AWS governments, imposing a certain obligation resulting from the provisions of the Reparation Act on local governments and thus transferring to them a certain burden of implementing this law... As I have heard, the assumption is that now this Polish country will take over this whole, well, I do not want to say heavy goods... will take over this obligation, including financial obligations. This law will therefore be a more effective tool for implementation. I hope so. After all, we will probably be discussing and discussing this soon. There, in this bill, there's a precise distribution... At least that's what happened so far. And I think that many provisions will be transferred to this new act, either in the form of an amendment or in the framework of the creation of a new act of national law. The roles of the individual authorities of the State which have to fulfil this task have also been clearly defined. Finally, I would also like to refer to what Marshal Borusewicz was talking about, and what concerns ours, that so I will put it, openness to all those who want to live in Poland, and perhaps are not necessarily Poles, on those who recognize that Poland is a country where it is worth spending their life. This is what Prime Minister Beata Szydło once said, and it caused a great storm in the media. Today it turns out that the Prime Minister was right. In recent years, recently arrived in Poland, it was recently repeated by Marshal Karczewski during his visit to Berlin. Around 1 million Ukrainians, Ukrainians who settled here and found work here, who are perfectly assimilated in our country, integrate with our citizens. [[Voice from the refugee room.]] [[Voice from the room: Ukrainian citizens.]] And most of them, as an incentive to leave, treated all the wrong things that are happening beyond our eastern border, in their country's territory. And that means we're open, too. I will not be here, God forbid, using any simple economic arguments, because they also fall in different discussions when we talk about repatriation, when we are talking about creating the right living conditions for our fellow countrymen and not only. The point is, they've been accepted with their arms wide open, and they feel good here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u112	Thank you very much. Let me inform you that the list of speakers has been... [[Me too.]] You're welcome. Come on in. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, second appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I have to react... [[Senator...]] Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. Talking about we've accepted a million refugees... [[I didn't say refugees.]] Okay, but the Prime Minister answered. You referred to the Prime Minister. That's what messing with people's minds is all about. On this basis, about 750 thousand Poles are refugees in the UK, about 800,000 Poles working in Germany are also refugees from Poland. Well, you can't mix like that... I understand that this is about confusion, about pointing out, well, you can say, stupid Western people, that we already have a million refugees here. And yet these are completely different categories, Mr. Senator, well, you can't mix like this... [[But I didn't say that.]] I understand, yes, yes, but... I know what's going on, and that's why I want to protest. No, we don't have a million Ukrainian refugees, we have 800,000, maybe a million Ukrainians who come here and work, leave, come... It's lucky they're not refugees. We don't have a lot of people from the eastern areas, 200.300 people. So let's really leave these things out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Chudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll take my time... [[Second time, five minutes.]] I'm not gonna talk for five minutes. Mr. Marshal, these Ukrainian citizens are not called refugees, but in fact this phenomenon has occurred in the last 2 years since the war in Ukraine. And maybe political correctness tells us to name them either yes or yes, but the fact is that they came to Poland and found their place in Poland. Position of the Polish Government I think it is known to all who listen: Poland is open to refugees, to persecuted people at this point we are thinking about Arab countries and refugees confessing Islam, faith in Muhammad, in Allah. We will accept refugees, Poland says, the Polish government says that we cannot afford migrants from that area, but not refugees. So let's get the concepts straightened out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u116	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka and Senator Ambrosik have made their speeches in the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Rulewski and Senator Warzocha. The discussion is closed. The Minister did not want to respond to the proposals, and since legislative proposals were made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad to respond to the proposals presented and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the seventh item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and the National Road Fund. The text of the Act is contained in print No 125 and the committee's report In print No 125 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure an opinion on the Law amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund of 31 March 2016. The purpose of that law is to transpose into national law the provisions of Commission Decision 2009/750/EC of 6 October 2009 on the definition of a European electronic toll service and its technical elements pursuant to Article. 4 Directive 2004/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the interoperability of electronic road toll systems in the Community. The basic objective of Decision 2009/750/EC is to establish and implement the procedures governing the European electronic toll service in the EETS Act, the European Electronic Toll Service. The aim of the Act is to enable the use of devices and software capable of communicating between electronic toll collection systems in Poland, as well as with all systems used in the territory of other Member States of the European Union. Electronic toll collection systems have already been introduced in our neighbours, e.g. in the countries of the Visegrad Group, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany and Austria, i.e. our western and southern neighbours. The implementation of the electronic tolling system, by installing on-board equipment in the vehicle, will enable the user to pay tolls for the use of roads both in Poland and in those countries of the European Union which have already implemented the provisions of Decision 2009/750/EC in their legal order. The user will account with the EETS provider for fees charged by all chargers. EETS is optional, i.e. it will be possible to pay a fee either by means of services offered by the EETS provider or by paying directly to the chargers. EETS may be provided by a supplier established in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The authority keeping the register of this service shall be the Minister responsible for Transport. This service may also be provided by an EETS provider established also in the territory of a Member State other than Poland of the European Union if he has concluded a contract for the provision of such a service. The responsibilities of the EETS service provider shall be specified. It will be obliged, among others.: pay fees by means of a device installed on a vehicle, monitor the way in which EETS is provided in accordance with the procedures set out in the risk management plan, cooperate with the entity empowered to check the correctness of payment of the electronic toll on the basis set out in a separate agreement, make available on its website information about the EETS areas supported and the conditions of the service contracts concluded, immediately inform the Minister responsible for transport of the changes in its data and information contained in the EETS register. The provider of the European electronic toll service will be required to pay tolls on motorways and on roads to the tolling entity with which he has concluded the contract, at least once every 2 weeks, unless otherwise provided. Where the fee constitutes the income of the National Road Fund, a contract which exceeds a period of 2 weeks shall not be concluded; the maximum period shall then be 2 weeks. In the case of late payment of fees, statutory interest will be due. The EETS provider will be required to provide the user with a device for charging in all EETS areas. The Act also provides for a way of resolving disputes between fee collectors and providers of that service. Such disputes will be settled by a panel acting as a conciliation body consisting of three members: a person designated by the service provider, a person designated by the fee charger and a chairman chosen from among the candidates designated by the parties. Each of the parties will be able to submit 2 and 4 candidates. Mr Marshal, High Senate, the Committee on Infrastructure proposes that the High House adopt five amendments. These are amendments concerning the inclusion of a transitional provision in the Act, a clarification amendment, a codification amendment, and an amendment ensuring compliance with the principles of legislative technique. The Committee on Infrastructure welcomes the bill, together with the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u118	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. rapporteur, I am a member of the committee and I was at a meeting, but now I have this idea. It is known that there is a single supplier, that we want to implement EU law and make changes that are necessary and necessary. But I was wondering, when it comes to motorways payable in Poland managed by private concessionaires... We have private concession holders who have an agreement... These first contracts were without State guarantee. We still have other private concession holders. Is this electronic toll system... I understand that he's optional, i.e. They can either turn on or they can't turn on. Whether it will be mandatory on all Polish roads, or private concessionaries e.g. Are they gonna get out of this? I do not know if this is a question for your rapporteur, because I do not think this issue was raised at the committee meeting. Then perhaps the Minister would like me to ask you to explain what the case of these private concessionaires in Poland is. Can we count on this system to include them?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u120	Thank you very much. As the senator said, no one asked such a question during the committee meeting, nor did the committee discuss the matter in detail. Well, I'm not gonna come up with the answers... The Minister, I hear, says he'll answer. I would very much ask the Minister to answer this question in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u121	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the rapporteur? No. [[Thank you.]] Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Jerzy Szmit. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? You're welcome. Your vote, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, I will merely remind you of the fundamental principles of the law, which is the subject of the proceedings of the High House. The law does not regulate the issue of the creation of a new charging system nor does it impose a new charge for travelling on Polish roads. EETS is complementary to national electronic toll services in the Member States of the European Union. And the EETS service will enable road users to pay their toll electronically by means of a single on-board device installed on the vehicle. Therefore, the collection of tolls on the roads of the European Union countries where electronic tolls are levied, including Poland, will be simplified. High Izbo, referring in very detail, very directly to the senator's question, let me say this: this system is not a finite technical device or functional solution today. It is a legal option that allows the application of the system in individual countries, but only on those roads where electronic toll collection already exists today. Thus, in such cases as we are dealing with on roads operated by concessionaires in Poland, where the fee is charged manually, this system will not be able to apply until electronic toll collection is introduced. At the moment, there is already an electronic collection system in Poland. It is a viaTOLL system, thanks to which tolls are charged electronically on parts of Polish roads, except that this applies only to heavy goods traffic. Fees in electronic form may also be charged in the case of passenger cars, but users have to report themselves to this system, to register; then they can pay electronically. So, given that until concession holders whose concessions end in 2027 or 2037 do not start charging electronically, they will not be able to operate within the system... But here's what I'm gonna say: one concessionaire. I will not say which, although it is not a secret, would like to charge electronically, but this requires a change of the entire concession agreement with all the consequences. So that this law does not create a new reality today when it comes to charging. This is just an option, a new app on the phone, which we can already prepare in Poland legally. However, as far as the technical side is concerned, today there is no possibility to use EETS throughout Europe because there are no operators registered in European countries. In fact, it's only now that trials are being made... So far, one company has submitted to Poland, which has declared its willingness to be an operator in this system. It is a French company which has set its conditions, and we really wonder to what extent they meet the requirements of Polish law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u123	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Well, maybe I...]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u124	Nobody asked, I'll ask. Minister, I understand that as far as viaTOLL is concerned, private concession holders can join if they want. I understand you said one of the concession holders was interested. possibly Polish... Well, that's good, because from what I remember from the two-three-year-old conversations, I know they wanted to go into the viaTOLL system, too. It takes a long time and it can be seen that so far they have done nothing in this direction to actually bring about the coherence of the system. I think it's just convenient, especially for travelers, for truck drivers, because you don't have to stop, you don't have to pay. However, I think that once the system starts to work, the concession holders will also take action. I think it is also for their convenience, and for drivers, and for all of us actually, because, as we know, the toll collection systems that are in Poland... And that's because we started building highways in this system. System's open, system's closed. It causes a lot of... It annoys us to stand on the gates, especially during the summer. So it's a good thing that all these electronic systems that eliminate this are being put in place. Let us hope that this system will work in the future not only in these few countries, but in all European countries. And here's the good news for the Minister: such talks are being held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! In principle, until November 2018, a contract is in force in Poland with Kapsch, which is an operator of the viaTOLL system, i.e. electronic toll collection for trucks or possibly for those who sign up and sign up for the system themselves, and want to travel or travel by passenger cars, but want to pay electronically. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of this as Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Construction That this year we really need to make a decision on which toll collection system should be in Poland after 2018. These jobs are going on. This is a very important, fundamental choice that is still ahead of us. This choice will determine in what form, but whether using one or another technology, we will be charging in Poland after 2018. Nothing's decided here yet. Work's on. We do not close to any technology that is able to meet our technical and financial requirements, requirements for the efficiency of toll collection and, above all, access to the system as well as comfort for travellers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u127	Thank you very much. Questions, please. [[No questions.]] No questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Dobkowski. [[No, thank you.]] You didn't volunteer? [[An amendment I'd like to...]] I see. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I would like to inform you that you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Dobkowski. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to comment on Senator Dobkowski's legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u128	Mind if I speak from the spot? As regards the amendments, the government supports the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u129	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes, signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 127 and the report of the Commission In print No 127 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur, who is the joint Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Mr Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint committees, i.e. the Committee on Finance and Budget and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, dealt with this project at their meeting on 5 April 2016. It's a government project. The Legislative Office did not make any comments. At the committee meeting, there was a discussion on a certain nomenclature and representatives of the Ministry explained that the nomenclature was derived from a model convention of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and that it was from there that these terms, these definitions, were transferred. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u131	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No.]] No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Minister Skiba. Would the Minister like to comment on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u132	We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 128 and the report of the Commission In print No 128 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! It's the same... On the same day, the committee also dealt with this project. I mean, not the committee, just the joint committees, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. There were no comments from the Legislative Bureau. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u134	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does Minister Skiba wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any requests for questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services COM (2016) 128. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. It is included in print No 147 and the committee's report In print No 147 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to present a joint report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the three committees. The marshal pointed them out here. Ladies and gentlemen, the principle of subsidiarity is one of the key principles on which the functioning of the European Union is based. In our opinion, in the opinion of the three Joint Committees, the Posting of Workers Directive is in serious breach of this principle. It is estimated that almost 2 million workers are posted to foreign countries each year across the European Union. The largest group, because 430,000, are here representatives of our country. Both committees and the government believe that a rather rapid implementation of this directive will significantly reduce the possibility of posting workers and reduce the competitiveness of Polish companies on foreign markets, which can result in a fall, as estimated, of about 15 000 Polish economic operators. This directive also creates problems in terms of social security, in terms of coordination of these processes and, as shown at the committee meeting, is detrimental to Polish actors. Therefore, the committees unanimously considered that this directive infringes the principle of subsidiarity and should be regarded as such. Here, ladies and gentlemen, there's a chance we can enter a procedure that will block... If an appropriate group of national Parliaments' proposals are brought together, we will block this directive at European Commission level. And as far as we know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Family, informed us that some European countries, especially the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, also question the principle of subsidiarity in the case of this directive. So that I recommend supporting our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u136	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Richard Majer to represent them. [[There's a question.]] I can see that. Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u137	Mr Senator, the principle of subsidiarity is violated when the objective of the law, the directive cannot be achieved... means it can be achieved by national legislation. What was the purpose of this directive? And how can this objective, the aim of this directive, be achieved by our national legislation? [[Thank you so much for asking...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u138	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of this directive, Dear State, was essentially to improve the process of posting workers. However, this improvement has the effect of reducing the competitiveness of the players that appear in the markets so-called. an old Europe in the European Union. The problems are particularly related to the coordination of social security elements. And the threat of violation of the principle of subsidiarity was pointed out by Polish employers, alongside the Polish government, who said that the directive raises bureaucratic problems enough that Polish companies in practice will not be able to be in this market or their competitiveness in the Western market will be significantly reduced. We therefore believe that if the principle of subsidiarity is to be based on the fact that cases which are not resolved at national level will be able to solve the European Union, i.e. they will be resolved at this higher level, the objective set in the directive is missed because it does not solve the problems of posting to any extent.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u140	You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u141	I just want to say that it is clear from the senator's statement that this directive is contrary not to the principle of subsidiarity but to our interests. And it's worth it for us to just write it down and say it openly. It is a policy and, of course, we are using another tool to protect our own interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u142	Thank you. There are no more questions, Senator. The government representative does not wish to speak on the draft submitted. If there are any questions for a government representative, I'm gonna have to announce a break, because a government representative right now... [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] ...there isn't. But if there are no questions... [[Voices from the room: No questions asked.]] No questions? Good. I read... But I have to read it. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to the government representative present at the meeting. No questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft opinion. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 225th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3. I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Culture and Media. It is included in print No 142 and the committee's report In print No 142 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Richard Bonisławski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u143	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a resolution, such a historic one, I think it is quite important, prepared in the Committee on Culture, and on 19 April also considered in the Legislative Commission. The Commission has tabled an amendment and proposes that the Senate adopt the draft in the form that I will present in a moment. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of It'll be added On the occasion of the 225th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3. On May 3, 2016, we celebrate the 225th anniversary of the adoption by the Grand Sejm of the Constitution of May 3, the first in Europe and the second in the world, after the Constitution of the American, modern law of the fundamental epoch of Enlightenment. This document was a specific response to the steadily deteriorating internal and international situation in which the Republic of the Both Nations found itself in the second half of the 18th century. The reforms introduced gave hope for a peaceful change in the country's political system, combining the Christian traditions of the Polish state with the ideas of a strong and modern state contained in democratic legal standards. Although finally the work of the Constitution of May 3 was destroyed by reluctant changes in political forces supported by the armed intervention of neighbouring powers, it permanently instilled values in the nation, which after 123 years of partitions, enabled the rebirth of the Polish state. Appreciating the importance and importance of those events, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the creators and defenders of the Constitution of May 3, whose achievements and heritage enabled the Polish nation to endure historic adversities, becoming the foundation of a sovereign democratic state and civil society. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u144	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Ryszard Bonisławski to represent them. Are there any questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u145	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The text of the resolution stresses very rightly that the Constitution of May 3 adopted by the Grand Sejm was the first in Europe and the second in the world today's basic law. This means that in the Republic of Poland, both nations in the second half of the 18th century sought a peaceful change of political system As it is written in the resolution By combining the Christian traditions of Polish statehood with the ideas of a strong and modern state contained in democratic legal standards. The resolution therefore highlights two things, two principles: a peaceful change of political system and a Christian tradition. This first rule means nothing less, but the fact that the constitution was passed without bloodshed. Let me remind you that at about the same time, the French murdered thousands of people in their homes to introduce a constitution. We brought her in without spilling a drop of blood. So unlike France, a bloodless revolution took place in Poland in 1791. The second principle, the Christian tradition, I would like to pay some attention. First of all, the Catholic Church had great merit in the adoption of the Constitution of May 3, as evidenced by the fact that the Constitution was not overvoted, but accepted by the oath: first at the Royal Castle, King Stanisław August Poniatowski swore on the Gospel, and then repeated it in the present Warsaw Cathedral. In other words, the constitution, thanks to its oath to the Gospel, received as if a church sanction as a safeguard of reform achievements. Two days later, in a separate resolution, the Sejm recommended that special services be held on 8 May throughout the country. I quote: Thanking God for a moment of success in extracting Poland from foreign violence and domestic disorder, for restoring the government, which most effectively can secure our true freedom and the whole of Poland. On 7 May the Sejm adopted a resolution on the construction of the Church of Divine Providence. He was to stand in the territory belonging to the king, near the bathrooms, within the present - day Botanical Garden. I will say that the foundation stone was erected solemnly on the first anniversary of the constitution, but the construction of the building was soon halted by the unfavorable events for Poland. In the end, only a small chapel was built here, which was a witness to hopeless hope in the days of the partitions and reminded us of the great work of the Four Year Sejm. Pope Pius VI, after reading the constitution and explanations of the nuncio, gave blessings to the king and the constitution, and in the Polish church in Rome there was a 48-hour thanksgiving service with the presentation of the Blessed Sacrament. After the papal blessing for the king and the constitution, the bishops issued shepherd's letters in which they ordered the parish priests to perform solemn Masses. Most parishes held ceremonies during which people took an oath on a constitution. As we know, the Constitution of May 3 was soon overthrown, but it became a kind of spiritual will of the First Republic, and at the same time a wonderful testimony of the mental and moral rebirth at the very end of its independent existence. To this remark about spiritual and moral rebirth, it is worth to add that in the second half of the 18th century the noble Republic was regarded in Europe as a state completely degenerate, dominated by anarchy, even unable to exist independently, but, interestingly and importantly, such an image of Poland was deliberately promoted by our neighbours to justify their temptation to Polish sovereignty before the West's opinion. In short, Poland did not fit into Europe at the time with its constitution and it had to be civilized, which was used by the partitions. I would like to add that Poland should actually be regarded as a degenerate country, since Poles themselves, opponents of the new system recruiting from the circles of native magnateria, found support for their intentions in St. Petersburg, asking for help from Catherine II. On 17 April 1792, a confederation was signed in the Tsar capital, officially declared in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in a border town called Targowica. This was followed by a clear order from Catherine II, who wanted to give Europe the impression that Poles themselves on their own land are taking action against their power, and Russia is only giving them kind support. Of course, this support was the start of the war with Russia on 18 May 1792. A group blinded by the pride of Poles brought to their own country the misfortune of foreign invasion, and consequently The third partition of Poland. During the partitions, the celebration of the anniversary of the Constitution of May 3 was forbidden. Despite this, on its anniversary in 1807, when the seed of the Polish state was founded, called the Warsaw Dukeship, a ceremony was held to give the Polish Army war banners, then called "Eagles." This event was given a highly elevated patriotic-religious framework. Also every year on the anniversary of the Constitution 3 May took place, but only in churches, ceremonial celebrities, and after them The public's manifestations. The entire generations of Poles living in captivity could appeal to the heritage of the Constitution of May 3 and boast of it also before other nations. Its timeless message can also be included today in words such as those written in one of the conspiracy writings issued before the January Uprising. I quote: Poland, as she entered the grave, gave her sons love, brotherhood and equality in the face of God and the whole world. Only after regaining independence in 1918, the Polish authorities and clergy asked the Pope to establish the feast of the Constitution of May 3. It was then combined with the anniversary of the vows of John Kazimierz and established on 3 May as a national and ecclesiastical feast. It was first celebrated in 1919. It was actually a central national holiday. Starting from 1925, the feast of the Constitution 3 May was given the ecclesiastical character of Our Lady of Poland. In this way the national and religious traditions were combined: the cult of Our Lady of the Queen of Poland and the patriotic tradition. The image of Our Lady of Jasna Góra was reflected on Polish coins and embroidered on national flags. During World War II and later in the years of communism the celebration of Our Lady of Poland and the worship of the memory of the Constitution of May 3 were forbidden. Let me just add that already in 1946 Communists brutally suppressed ceremonies organized in various places of Poland to celebrate this holiday. The feast of Our Lady of Poland remains only in the church calendar. Only after the fall of the communist system, and precisely since 1990, the day of 3 May is a church holiday, and at the same time a national holiday, officially introduced by the Seym Law. Once again, the idea of building the Temple of Divine Providence, which was finally situated on the Fields of Wilanów, was taken. In 2002 the foundation stone for the building was solemnly erected, which, on completion, will constitute the votive which God's Providence the creators of that Constitution wanted to lay down. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u146	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Robert Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't be getting a divorce here long, because Senator Ryszka said a lot of smart words. I would just like to convey such a brief message resulting from history, tell what the history of Poland of the 18th century teaches us, and especially an attempt to repair the system. Without a doubt, the Constitution of May 3 and the memory of it unite Poles today. We can talk about this act in a serious way, dealing with various arguments. Because I remind you that there are different views of historians on the very introduction of the May 3 Constitution. And today we know one thing: that it was introduced too late. Reforms that enlightened people wanted to introduce at that time, i.e. the introduction of the constitutional monarchy, turned out to be reforms made too late. The degrengolada of the state went so far and foreign influences were so strong that there was no chance of saving independence anymore. The sequence of events is known: the Constitution of May 3, a year later The market confederation; then the Kościuszko Uprising and the III demolition; and in the meantime I'll take it off. So one conclusion is: because reforms in Poland's history were not implemented wisely and at the right time, they could not succeed, although it was an act, as we know today, written in a prudent manner. I therefore warn against worshiping this as a celebration of democracy, because the Constitution of May 3 restricted democracy by completely removing the noble golotte from participation in the Grand Sejm, because its representatives were bribed, had no land, had no wealth and were subject to various influences, especially the Magnatian one. This is a very important matter. Moreover, the entire work of the Grand Sejm was crossed by those who thought they were defending freedom. When we read Branicki's or Rzewuski's memories, we see that there is a question of the good of the Republic and the former rights of Poles. There were even those Members who, during the proclamation of the Constitution of May 3, in a spectacular way threatened their children to kill them because they thought they were better off killing them than waiting for the time when freedom would be so severely restricted. Some historians believe that the constitution was a coup d'état of the majority against minorities. Then a great warning was what happened after Targowica and as a result of Targowica: those who were opposed to reform, in order to restore the former system under the slogan of threatened freedom, they went to a foreign court. Such sequences in the history of Poland unfortunately repeat themselves. In 1920, there was a similar situation when the communists came with the Red Army to introduce an unwanted system here. Stefan Żeromski wrote that for such it should not be even the fists of Polish land to bury them. In 1944 a similar situation took place again: the Polish National Liberation Committee and the decree of PKWN were established, which was written in Moscow and announced in Chełm Lubelski. The Targowick Confederation... The act itself signed by 13 traitors was created in St. Petersburg and was announced in Targowica. I think that for us today, science from these important events should continue today, we should draw on these experiences and not allow our responsibility for the Republic to force us to behave improperly. Long live the memory of the Constitution! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u148	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is contained in print No 137, and the report in print No 137 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Maria Pańczyk-Podziej, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u149	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to recommend to you a draft law on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, print No 137 S. The Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee at their joint meeting on 20 April 2016 considered the draft resolution presented by the applicants at first reading and requested that it be adopted without amendments. The project sets out the rules for the procurement of public tasks in the field of care for Polish people and Poles abroad and for the clearance of grants for these tasks. It is basically a return to the state from 4 years ago, when the Senate was the one taking care of Polonia within the structure of the Senate. The Polonia Bureau. It is a senate project adopted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u150	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants have authorized Senator Janina Sagatowska to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator Rapporteur. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We begin to consider item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 153, and the report is published in print No 153 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the committee a report on the work of the committee on the draft resolution on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. A group of senators shall be the candidates for the resolution. The senators have appointed me as the representative of the applicants. The resolution itself is a tribute to the Silesians on the 90th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. The outbreak took place at night from May 2 to May 3 in 1921. It was the result of the proposed unfavorable division of Upper Silesia for Poland, on which the plebiscite was distributed on 20 March 1921. This division did not satisfy the Polish side, and above all it was unfair for economic reasons, also for the population and for territorial reasons. The uprising was preceded by a strike that was proclaimed and announced by Wojciech Korfanty. Wojciech Korfanty himself, the leader of the Uprising, issued a manifesto to the Upper Silesian people, explaining the reasons for the uprising and appointed the chief commander of the Uprising. The fight lasted almost two months. Their main course was: the offensive of the Polish troops... the Silesian insurgents who benefited from the fact of surprise of the German side; the stabilisation of the front line in the first decade of May on the so-called. Corfante's line, which was a postulated line of division of the plebiscite area; then the counteroffensive of the German troops after such a first surprise, very heavy fight for the Mount of St. Anna; about the capture of the Mount St. Anna; breaking the resistance line by the Germans... the beginning of the fight for Mount St. Anna, i.e. 21 May; then the second offensive of the German troops on 4 June. Fortunately, Germany did not get into the center of the industrial district, which was the purpose of their fights, their offensives. On June 20, the fights froze. On June 26, a truce was signed and by July 5, this truce was as if consummated. Both Germany and Poles, both Polish and German troops went beyond the plebiscite area. But thanks to this uprising And this is probably the most important of all, thanks to this rally and manifestation of Polishness in Upper Silesia there was another division of the plebiscite area: Poland received almost 1/3 of the areas where the plebiscite took place, more than half of the population and It's very important. . large economic potential. This economic potential has become the beginning of the power of the Second Republic of Poland, and has also enabled it to have economic sovereignty. I ask you to adopt a draft resolution without amendment. I'll read it right now. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. On the night of 2 to 3 May 1921 the Third Silesian Uprising broke out in Upper Silesia. For the third time, the Silesians engaged in an armed struggle to join this part of the historical Piast lands to Poland. Unacceptable of the Germanic shackles as he wrote in his message to his compatriots the leader of the Uprising of Wojciech Korfanta The Silesians in the armed rally changed the course of history. The uprising lasted two months. 65 thousand Poles participated, over 1.2 thousand were killed. Their blood sacrifice didn't go to waste. The result was a new division of the plebiscite area: Poland was granted almost 1/3 of its territory with almost half of its population and with most Upper Silesian industrial plants, mines, steelworks and steelworks. They became the basis of economic sovereignty and development of the Second Republic of Poland. This is how Wojciech Korfanty summarized it: The miracle on the Vistula saved Poland from destruction, the miracle on the Oder gave Poland Silesia. On the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising, the Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the heroic Silesians, who loyal to their homeland, confirmed the Polishness of Upper Silesia with an armed struggle. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to represent them. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Senator Czerwiński had just read, 95 years ago, on the night of 2 to 3 May 1921 the Silesian Uprising broke out in Upper Silesia III, the longest and most bloody. I will add right away: the victory will rise, which not everyone remembers, because many believe that the only victory was the Greater Poland Uprising. Meanwhile, the winning Third Silesian Uprising changed the course of history. The bloody victim of several thousand Silesians and not only Silesians, because the uprising was attended by many volunteers from other parts of Poland, did not go to waste. 58 insurgent days and nights decided to divide Upper Silesia in favour of the Republic, which received most of the Upper Silesia industry. However, before the uprising broke out, I will remind you that political records almost led to recognition of the adverse outcome of the plebiscite in Upper Silesia for Poland. 59% voters, including many Germans who were brought in from the depths of the Reich, actually decided the outcome of this plebiscite. The Germans rejected success, the Allies considered the result to be a fact that could not be rejected, even the government in Warsaw, not wanting to be exposed to international sanctions, would have recognised the outcome of the plebiscite. Only Wojciech Korfanty, the leader of the Silesians, the Polish plebiscite commissioner, in order to prevent the unfavorable division of Poland, felt that the only right solution would be an armed uprising. Not civil war, ladies and gentlemen, not civil war, because that's what some people mistakenly call an uprising, but the insurgent rally of the Silesians in order to join Upper Silesia to Poland. The diploma of Korfanty and the patriotic victim of the insurgents resulted, as we read in the resolution, in the final division of Upper Silesia, which proved to be very beneficial for the Republic of Poland. In general, the result was a new division of the plebiscite area: Poland was granted almost 1/3 of its territory with almost half of its population and with most Upper Silesian industrial plants, mines, steelworks and steelworks. They have become the basis for the development of the economy of the Second Republic of Poland. Senator Czerwiński recalled Wojciech Korfantego's words: The miracle on the Vistula saved Poland from destruction, the miracle on the Oder gave Poland Silesia. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is little talk and writing about the further fate of Wojciech Korfante and thousands of heroic insurgents. Many insurgents had to escape from the German part of Upper Silesia. Those who remained were exposed to constant harassment, especially after 1933. But also in the Polish Upper Silesia, in the Silesian Voivodeship, their fates were not simple. Organized insurgent structures fell apart into 2 groups: the Sanctuary, identified with the voivode Michał Grażyński, and the insurgents associated with the Chadite Korfante camp. Of course, this resulted in a weakening of the Polish movement in Upper Silesia. The veterans of the Uprising laid great credit in September 1939. When the Polish military units gave way under the pressure of the Wehrmacht, the fierce resistance was put by the Germans by members of the insurgent unions. They also paid for this resistance the highest price as later one of the most persecuted groups in the entire occupied area of Upper Silesia and Poland. The fate of Wojciech Korfante was no better. In 1930, he was arrested with the members of Centrolev and imprisoned in the fortress of Brest; however, from the very Brest trial he was excluded. After his release, he returned to Upper Silesia, but as a political opponent, Michał Grażyński's voivodeship was constantly threatened by the next arrest. In the spring of 1935, in fear of repression, he went to Prague for exile. Notabene could not even return to the country in 1938 to the funeral of his son Witold, because the government of Prime Minister Sławoj Składkowski refused to issue him an iron letter. After the annexation of Czechoslovakia, Korfanta went through Germany to France. He was one of the founders of the Morges Front and later the organizer and chairman of the Labour Party. In April 1939 he returned to Poland, but despite his willingness to fight the Germans he was arrested and imprisoned in Pawiak. Despite public protests, he spent almost three months there. He was seriously ill, released on July 20, 1939, probably for fear of dying in a prison cell. That's often the fate of heroes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Silesian, I am honored that on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising together with the state, senators of the 9th Senate of the Republic of Poland, we pay tribute to the heroic Silesians who loyal to their homeland, the armed struggle confirmed the Polishness of Upper Silesia. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u154	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Maria Panczyk-Podniej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know that writing a good text of the resolution This is a difficult art, because in a relatively short text there is a great deal of material news to be included. Therefore, knowing that nothing should be added here anymore, I would like to share with you my thoughts on this subject. It is true, the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising, the winning one, this is a very important anniversary, especially important for us Silesians; it is important that we are sometimes refused to belong to Poland. Yet in Silesia they live in the vast majority of Poles who admit to Silesian roots. I often say about myself that I am Polish with Silesian pedigree or Silesian with Polish roots. And believe me, I also often explain to people who do not know the intricacies of Silesian history, that it was not difficult for the inhabitants of Warsaw or Lublin to admit to Polishness, but when Silesian told about himself that he was Polish, it was often heroics. I'll give you an example from my own resume. My father, born in 1900 in Opole, never went to a Polish school, but the whole occupation, hiding, carried a stigmatist. It was heroic. My mother knows something about it, and she must have had this terrible time of occupation with him. Thanks to my profession, I had the opportunity to meet people known, people who made history. 30 years ago, few Silesian insurgents lived. One of them was Jan Wadas from Chełma Śląski, about whom I recorded a report. And this man, then over ninety years old, controlled by life, said to me on tape: "Please, ma'am, we for Poland would give each other a heart to rip out." And today, talking about people like that, that they were just Silesians, that's a crime. And they do it with pleasure. At the moment, we often meet with this in Silesia. The people of the Silesian Autonomy Movement refuse us to belong to Poland. You can't accept that. [[Applause]] I read these magazines sometimes. 'Cause it can't be said otherwise in this issue. And I read recently that the Silesian Uprising was not an uprising, it was a civil war, and that it was a bunch of chops that stole the guns and went to Anaberg to wash. That's what the Silesian Authority says. It's true that there wouldn't have been a Third uprising if it hadn't been for Corfanta. A tragic figure, a man who died in unexplained circumstances, a man who considered Silesian affiliation to Poland to be a state of supreme happiness. To this day, Korfante's followers They call themselves corphanists. And when Korfanty was posthumously decorated with the White Eagle Cross 19 years ago, his family from America came to this ceremony. They were the daughter-in-law of Eugenia Korfantova and the grandchildren of Maria Rup and Feliks Korfanta. And I can tell you Because I also attended the ceremony, talked to them, watched them experience their presence at the ceremony and their attachment to the country. That the apple doesn't fall far from the tree. These people, as I said, could be said that they were people who, with some great attraction, were lovingly talking about the country from which they emigrated decades earlier. They looked with amazing admiration at how Poland is developing, what Poland is. And I would like to appeal to your senators from other regions of Poland: if you witness that someone is slandering us, say false words about us, defend us, because we are Poles too! And our ancestors, Silesian insurgents, soldiers who often went straight from the Wehrmacht to Anders' army, as well as soldiers who were cursed from Silesia, also fought for Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u156	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take the floor of Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, I had to speak. I fully share the views expressed by Senator Ryszka and Senator Panczyk-Podzier, and I must speak because if I had not taken him away, it would have been as if I had not confessed to being Silesian. I am a Silesian from my grandfather, great-grandfather, and to those words which my excellent speakers have spoken here, I would like to add only one comment, fully sharing their statements. The words of Mr Wojciech Korfanty's family members were mentioned here, who were very enthusiastic about their homeland. In later years, it was very painful for me that the children, the descendants of these insurgents, would travel abroad for bread or for a better standard of living. Anyway, I fully acknowledge that I am a Silesian, and I share those words that just came out here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u158	Thank you, Senator. Did Senator Gaweda come in? There you go, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly, but... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.]] ...let me speak as the grandson of the Silesian insurgent. We're so wonderfully connected here by such good... In fact, today I realize how 95 years ago, when the Silesian uprisings erupted, the Silesians must have felt how my grandfather must have felt, who was one of many such grey Silesian insurgents. I think that their desire for freedom, their Silesian identity perceived in terms of belonging to Poland, was something unique. It is impossible to express all of this today, but I would like to say to the High House that my grandfather was also stigmatized, because on his back he wore this big red "P" that somehow allowed my father and the whole family to survive. Today, when we raise this resolution, we somehow emphasize this identity, this Silesian affiliation to Poland. And let me say briefly: the heart beats very joyfully today and I am glad that we can make this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u160	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Are there communications? I'm about to announce a recess. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u161	Messages. The meeting of the Infrastructure Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Public Roads Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund will be held today 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Polish Charter and some other laws will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u162	We're adjourned until 6:00 p.m. After the break... [[Voices from the room: No, no!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] After the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from O.R.: 5:00 p.m.!]] [[Gentlemen, it's gonna be longer!]] [[Voices from the hall: Until 5:00 p.m. it was!]] [[Why an hour and a half? It doesn't make sense, Mr. Marshal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a recess until 6:00 p.m. There is no discussion about this. That's all the time employees need to prepare committee meetings and then vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] As of 6:00 p.m. vote. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 30 to 18 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u163	I'm reopening the session. We return to the second agenda: the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the Act. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 takes into account that on 1 September 2016, the persons admitted for the first year of studies for the 2016/2017 academic year will not yet have student status. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 2 correlates the terminology of this law with the terminology of the Law on the Principles of Science Financing. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment No 3 clarifies the rule that this academy as such, and not its individual units, will have to comply within 3 years from the date of establishment of the university with the requirements of the Law on Higher Education in terms of doctoral qualifications. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 3]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 harmonises the expression of the same content. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 78 were in favour, 1 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act establishing the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Law on the Prevention of Sexual Crime. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 129 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gogach, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am pleased to present the report of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions in print No 129 Z. The Commissions at its meeting on 29 April this year considered the conclusions put forward during the debate on 28 April 2016 on the Law on the Prevention of Sexual Crime and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate should accept the conclusions set out in paragraphs 7, 8, 23, 27, 33, 36, 37 and 40. Please accept these requests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. I would now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Marek Borowski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! During a very deep and in-depth discussion about this law, the largest controversy was raised by the so-called open register, i.e. a register in which photographs of the names and with the given city of residence would be published on the website of the Ministry of Justice, without any other data of the convicted persons have already been punished for the offences set out in that law; some types of such offences are involved. This provision has raised serious controversy as this type of solution is not used in European practice. The risk lies in this, especially in a society that is not prepared to do so. And the practice and various situations that took place in Poland show that there are a lot of people here who would like to exercise justice on their own in such situations. That it would put some risks behind it. Another objective of such an open register, which is difficult to deny, was that those directly concerned, especially the parents of young children, should be able to make sure that such an example was given. That their new neighbor is not, let's say, a potential criminal, a paedophile. In order to reconcile one with the other, i.e. to maintain the latter feature of the open register, i.e. the possibility of checking the individual, but at the same time to exclude the first one, i.e. full access to the register of people whose intentions we cannot predict, we have tabled an amendment with Marshal Borusewicz. This amendment removes the open register, there are many provisions that remove the open register. But at the same time, it gives the right to any citizen who has a legal interest in it... Such an interest should be demonstrated, such as being a parent concerned about the arrival of a new person in the neighborhood. It's about the right to look into this register, because right now there's no such right, so you can find out, see if there's any danger. That's the whole amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u167	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? My question concerns Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz and Senators Piotr Flork, Marek Borowski, Jerzy Czerwiński and Jan Rulewski. Would any of you like to speak? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1, 3, 5, 10, 12, 15, 17, 19, 21, 25, 28, 31, 34 and 38 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 26, 29, 32, 33, 35 and 39. Amendments 1, 3, 5, 10, 12, 15, 17, 19, 21, 25, 28, 31, 34 and 38 state that there will be no online online sex crime record. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] Amendments 1, 3, 5, 10, 12, 15, 17, 19, 21, 25, 28, 31, 34, 38 were rejected. Amendments 2, 4, 6, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 26, 29, 32, 35 and 39 state that there will be an open online register of sex offenders while expanding access to information from the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 51 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] Amendments 2, 4, 6, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 26, 29, 32, 35,39 were rejected. Amendment 7 complements the directory of data to be included in the restricted access register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 7 was accepted. Amendment 8 specifies which person in the register is included in the open register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 8 was accepted. Amendment 9... [[Voice from the room: No 23.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Amendment 9 has been excluded.]] Is that out of the question? Yes? Are you sure? [[The voice from the hall: Yes, the eighth party ruled out the ninth.]] Oh, yeah, she did. Good. Amendment 23 sets out the reasons for removing certain persons from the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: Are we voting on Amendment 23?]] We are voting on Amendment 23. Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 24 shortens to 5 years the period during which juvenile offenders are kept in the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 30 for, 52 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 24 was rejected. Amendment 27 introduces the legal basis for correcting the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 27 was accepted. Amendment 30 aims at abolishing the criminality of an act involving the employment of a person entered in the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 32 against, 52 against. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 30 was rejected. Amendment 33 requires the courts to indicate in the information for the National Criminal Register whether the perpetrator of the offence is subject to registration in the Register of sex offenders. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 33 was accepted. Amendment 36 entitles the Minister of Justice to obtain full teletransmission of data from the Register of Personal Evidence. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 84 senators, 82 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 36 was accepted. Amendment 37 provides that the absence of prior entry in the National Criminal Register shall not prevent that person from being entered in the Register of sex offenders. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 83 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 37 was accepted. Amendment 40 introduces an inter-temporal provision for perpetrators of certain acts committed before the date of entry into force of this Law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 17]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 76 votes against, 1 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law on the prevention of sexual crime threats. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. A meeting of the Committee on National Defence took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 126 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Silesian, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting on 29 April 2016, the Commission examined the requests made during the debate on 29 April on the Act amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules for their movement through this territory and presents the following position to the High Senate: the High Senate is ready to adopt the proposal contained in point I, i.e. to adopt the Act without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the applicant, Senator Maciej Grubski, still want to speak? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 83 for, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and on the rules of their movement through this territory. We return to the consideration of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 132 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission is generally in favour of this senate initiative and considers that this law is very much needed. At the committee meeting they were accepted in Amendment 1 to Amendment II5. The adoption of these amendments will not cause any harm, on the contrary, improve this law in legislative terms and at the same time will not affect the date of entry into force of this law. A motion was also made by senator Mammothov to adopt a law without amendments, which was not supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Mr. Senator Robert Mamotkow, Mr. Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Mr. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński? You're welcome, Senator Mammoth. [[I would like to appeal to you to adopt a law without amendments...]] Please again, because you can't hear...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u172	Once again, I would like to call on you to adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u173	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Robert Mammoth's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 74 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of a law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utilities. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad took place during the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 130 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you kindly that the joint committees at their meeting on 29 April this year, after considering the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 29 April on the Act amending the Polish Charter Act and certain other laws supported the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 11 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski and Mr. Senator Arthur Warzocha. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 corrects language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments No 2 and No 27 introduce additional benefit for card holders into the Polish Charter Act: one-off cash benefit to cover maintenance costs due to arrival on the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] Amendments 2 and 27 were rejected. Amendment 3 sets out the title of the chapter in line with the provisions contained therein. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 correlates the provision with another solution adopted in the Act and sets the right of the holder of the Polish Card to provide money and not only the right to claim benefits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendment 5 eliminates part of the provision repeating the name of the District Government Act as non-normative value. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendments 8 and 28 clearly indicate to what extent the income limit provided for by the Social Assistance Act will not be included in the cash benefits granted under the Polish Charter Act, and modify the catalogue of income not included in the income taken into account in the granting of social assistance benefits as set out in that Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 were in favour, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendments 8 and 28 were accepted. Amendment 9 takes into account that no permanent residence permit is granted in one procedure two decisions to refuse an authorisation shall be issued, one final one and the other final one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 9 was accepted. Amendment 10 eliminates a passage which is a repetition of another provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 11 takes into account that the Polish Charter can also be granted by the voivode. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 12 eliminates a rule that does not have no normative value. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 takes into account that in the State budget, the foreign affairs part is called foreign affairs rather than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 correlates the provisions with another provision of the Act, indicating clearly that the renewal of the Polish Charter is carried out by decision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 15 seeks to ensure that the activities carried out in connection with the applicant's application for the renewal of the Polish Charter and the adoption of a decision on this matter are free of any fees, including consular fees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 16 seeks to ensure that the Council of Ministers can appoint more than one voivode as the competent authority for granting the Pole's Charter or extending its validity, and specifies the guidelines of the authorising provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 17 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 80 votes. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 18 seeks to ensure that the voivode can be the competent authority to grant the Polish Charter also in the proceedings for the award of the Polish Charter to a minor. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 19 and 30... precise? [[Voice from the room: They specify.]] Well, that's a mistake. They specify the date on which the Polish Charter expires by virtue of the Polish law in connection with the acquisition of Polish citizenship or the obtaining of a permanent residence permit by its holder, define the rules for the refund of the card which has expired, and the result that information on the loss of validity of the Polish Charter will also be entered in the register kept by the voivode. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 20 clarifies who should be understood by the person concerned and corrects the language error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 21 seeks to ensure that participation in human rights violations is a prerequisite for a decision to refuse to grant the Polish Charter regardless of when it was involved in human rights violations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 22 takes into account that the voivode will also be able to award and annul the Polish Charter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 23 correlates the provision authorising the substance of the provision and eliminates from the guidelines of the delegation a passage which suggests that separate proceedings will be carried out on the registration of personal data on the Polish Charter. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 24... [[Voice from the room: 25.]] ...25, now number 25. It regulates the terminology of the law, indicating clearly that the payment of cash benefits will be financed from the State budget from the special reserve. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 26 eliminates provisions that cannot be applied. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 45]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 29 aims to ensure that a foreigner who has been permanently resident in Poland for at least one year on the basis of a permanent residence permit, which he obtained in connection with the Polish origin or the Polish Charter, is considered to be a Polish citizen. The text adopted by the Sejm constituted a period of at least 2 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] [[That's not true.]] The amendment was accepted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Room vote: 81 in favour, one abstention.]] Who's holding back? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, that doesn't make any sense. All right. It makes reading very difficult... Amendment No... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But the amendment was accepted despite everything. Amendments no. 31 and 33 aim to ensure that all provisions amending, transitional and adapting the central register of Poles awarded and annulled and the registers of applications for such a card entered into force within the same period, i.e. 1 January 2017 Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendments 31, 32 and 33 were accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish Charter and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 125 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering the amendment tabled during the debate, asks the High House to accept this amendment and asks for the whole law to be adopted together with all amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-29-senat-16-2.u177	Thank you very much, Senator. I still have it written in the script... Would you like to speak again? I take it you're not. Yes? Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to ensure that the law is sufficiently precise. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment accepted. Amendment 2 adapts the law to the terminology used in the Penal Code. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 provides the law with terminology consistency. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 3 was accepted. Amendment 4 is more specific. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 5 amends the provisions of the Act which refer to them in such a way that they guide the existing law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 53]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 adds to the Act a transitional provision temporarily maintained by the Regulation of the Minister for Infrastructure and Development of 2 July 2015 on the control of the regularity of payment of the electronic fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Public Road Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes, signed at Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 127 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Convention between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes signed in Addis Ababa on 13 July 2015. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes, signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Print No 128 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 57]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes signed at Colombo on 6 October 2015. We return to the examination of item 10: second reading of the draft opinion on non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services COM (2016) 128. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft opinion has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request that the Senate adopt a single draft opinion in print No 174 S. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the opinion on the non-compliance with the principle of subsidiarity of the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services COM (2016) 128. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the occasion of the 225th anniversary of the adoption of the 3rd May Constitution. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that this third reading only covers the vote. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 142 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the 225th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of May 3. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 137 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. I would like to remind you that today the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 153 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 95th anniversary of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. [[Applause]] In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 16th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I would like to inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 11 and 12 May 2016. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's pronouncement would not be possible in the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of you like to speak? [[No one signed up.]] No one signed up, right? [[Yes.]] I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 16th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 16th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 42]]
