ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u1	Resume session. [[Mr. Marshal, can we speak on a formal matter?]] In a minute. I would like to call Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Mrs Monika Wieliczhowska, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Ms Katarzyna Osos and Ms Monika Wielichowska will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Mrs Katarzyna Osos and Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats. The messengers are here. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Foreign Affairs - hour 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Health Commission - h.m. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs - hour. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 17, - Physical culture, sports and tourism - also hours. 17, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 17, - Infrastructure - hour 18. Today, the following parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Group for: Safety of the Children's and Adults' Protective Vaccination Program - hours 10, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group on Autism - hour 11.20, - Parliamentary Group for: Mountain and Water Rescue - hour 12.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Regulation of Property Relations - h. 13.30, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Support of the Polish Defence Industry - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Team of Friends of Oder - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Kresów, Kresowian and the Heritage of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic - hour. 17, - the Podlaskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u3	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mieczysław Baszko with a formal application, yes? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 76th anniversary of the first export of citizens of the Republic of Poland to Siberia is held on 10 February. The first of the exports was the most tragic. It's about 140 grand. People. During the night of 9 to 10 February, first of all military settlers, foresters, teachers, residents of the Eastern Kresów were deported. Let us celebrate those who have fallen victim to the ruthless policies of the Soviet authorities, Marshal. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u5	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy has submitted a report on the draft law on State aid to raise children. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Mr Andrzej Gawron and Mr Leonard Krasulski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first question. The question about the measures already put in place by the Ministry to increase the innovation of the Polish economy and the share of R &amp; D expenditure in GDP is addressed to the Minister of Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development Mr Adam Hamryszczak will answer. Mr Gawron is the first question to be asked by Mr Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u6	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To achieve civilization growth and count in the global economy, our country needs rapid economic development. Today, the main challenge is to increase the competitiveness and efficiency of our economy. This can be achieved through innovative actions, technological improvements, research correlated with relevant economic sectors. In my opinion, it is also necessary, through support instruments, to increase the involvement of entrepreneurs in R &amp; D. In recent years, this type of action seems to have been underestimated in full. Our R &amp; D expenditure, although rising steadily, is still small compared to the European average. So I have a question for the new government, especially the representative of the Minister of Development. What measures have already been taken, introduced by the Ministry to increase the innovation of the Polish economy and the share of R &amp; D expenditure in our GDP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u7	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Adam Hamryszczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! As far as the measures that have been taken to increase the innovation of the Polish economy are concerned, I would like to stress at the outset that, of course, the increase in R &amp; D expenditure in Poland is one of the strategic objectives of the government of the Republic of Poland. In this context, it will be crucial both to increase public R &amp; D expenditure and to stimulate more effectively the growth of private spending for R &amp; D. At the outset, I would like to point out that the Innovation Council has been set up. This board consists of representatives of individual departments, both development and finance, culture and national heritage, science and higher education, health, education, digitalisation and treasure. This Gremium, please, initiates actions and proposes solutions that will actively support entrepreneurs in the search for new products and processes and involve Polish capital and consequently contribute to creating competitive advantages for our economy. The task of the Council is also - but it seems to me, first of all, to coordinate the instruments of innovation policy and to develop a system of incentives for entrepreneurs and representatives of the world of science, which are intended to contribute to the increase in R &amp; D expenditure. At this point, I would also like to point out that the completion of this active impact on R &amp; D policy will also be the concreteisation of the Council's efforts to modernise or remodel public procurement, which should take into account attractive solutions, products and processes based on the instruments introduced. Another area which is of particular interest to the Ministry of Development is, of course, the national intelligent specialisations that have been identified for the nearest perspective. These are economic priorities in the area of R &amp; D and innovation in order to concreteise investments in areas that ensure the added value of the economy and its competitiveness in foreign markets. This process, the process of identifying these smart specialisations, was also to involve socio-economic and scientific partners in order to enable them to discover those areas where the country has the chance to stand out internationally. Today it is a list of 20 national smart specialisations that have been grouped into five thematic departments. The first department is a healthy society, the second department is the agri-food, forest-tree and environmental bioeconomy, the third department is sustainable energy, while the fourth department is natural raw materials and waste management, the fifth, the most horizontal, these are innovative technologies and industrial processes. In addition, and I would like to point out very strongly, most of the activities envisaged in the operational programme "Smart Development" for the period 2014-2020 have been launched recently. We have also increased the forecast of spending, which was for individual years, including 2016, which, please, is a real support for entrepreneurs in R &amp; D. The most important instruments that we intend to launch under this programme are primarily activities that finance R &amp; D by companies, so-called. The rapid path or the Demonstrator, also sectoral R &amp; D programmes, support instruments using investment and venture capital funds, the creation or development of this R &amp; D infrastructure - in particular we want R &amp; D centres to be equipped with - support, as well as the implementation of R &amp; D results by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the financing of innovative costs of services provided on this occasion to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises by business environment institutions, as well as the financing of industrial property protection costs. Moreover, this year we will launch a special loan for technological innovation as well as a guarantee fund for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. So that the wide range of actions still this year is to be launched. In fact, we are planning to launch 23 competitions under the 15 instruments of the Operational Programme Smart Development. In this way, competitions will be announced within the framework of all the activities of this programme which were planned to be announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u9	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Matusiak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u10	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Innovation is also about environmental protection, progress, development and modernisation. The mining industry is experiencing a deep crisis after 8 years, and it seems that the use of the means of innovation in mining is unobserved. I do not hide that we are very much counting on the mining program, so I ask: Will innovation be present in Silesia? Whether we also use research centres such as the Experiment Mine, the Main Mining Institute or universities in Silesia, e.g. Polytechnic? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister Adam Hamryszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Mr. Speaker! Of course, the mining industry should be supported and will also be able to finance it in the financial perspective of 2014 and 2020 so that these companies can count on support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u13	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński and Mr Marek Owa. The question of the government's failure to renegotiate territorial contracts is addressed to the Minister for Development. Minister Adam Hamryszczak will also respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development. The first question is asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The need for urgent renegotiation of territorial contracts is due to the fact that recruitment for the 2014-2020 national operational programmes is currently being announced. Leaving the issue of territorial contracts open now makes it difficult, and sometimes may even prevent the implementation of certain priority projects, which are very important for the voivodships. On the example of the Opolskie voivodship, the problem is as follows: the territorial contract for the region was signed on 14 November 2014. In 2015, it was possible to verify the list of priority projects included in the contract by introducing new projects relevant to the Opole Voivodeship. The Management Board of the voivodship reviewed the update of the list of projects, gaining social acceptance, among others. in the framework of an agreement conference. The updated lists of priority projects were submitted to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development at the turn of August and September 2015, and on 4 December the Management Board of the voivodship sent its negotiating position, justifying the introduction of new projects into the contract. The Ministry therefore has at its disposal a full list of projects including proposals from 2014 and 2015. From the information obtained by the local government from the Ministry of Development, the Ministry did not specify the date when the renegotiations could take place. In addition, proposals submitted by the Management Board of the voivodship are verified by individual departments. According to the findings of the study, the opinion does not include new proposals submitted in 2015 in the negotiating position. Therefore, this issue needs urgent clarification and, I believe, correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u15	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Adam Hamryszczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the territorial contract and the state of the art, which is currently functioning in the Ministry of Development, this situation is as follows. Indeed, in the framework of the Ministry of Development, we are reviewing those activities which were planned within the framework of individual voivodship, regional contracts, for each region. The most important issue is really finding the source of funding for individual investments. Because as you well remember, the territorial contract actually consists of two sides, let's face it, it had two sides. The first edition was an edition of the definition of support areas, while the second edition was already linked to the inclusion of individual projects which could possibly be implemented from national or regional sources. Some of these investments, let's face it, were entered into the contract during a very difficult period, in the period of so-called. the electoral calendar. In view of the above, the Ministry of Development must now examine the appropriateness of these investments, but not only the legitimacy, it must primarily seek and analyse the possibilities of financing these investments, as I said, from both national and regional sources. And that is the subject of work now. It would be unreasonable to include additional investments where there is, or may be, a real problem with the financing of those investments which have already been initially, let us be honest, agreed. So that in this way I would like to approach this subject and so for today, in agreement, so to speak, with the truth and the real state of things. Looks like it. Moreover, some of the documents, let us be frank, strategic, also in the hands of individual ministries - I mean the national road construction programme - are subject to a certain review as of today in terms of the reasonableness of expenditure. So that, as I said at the beginning, we need to make a deep analysis, and then perhaps think about renegotiating, not in reverse order. Thank you. [[Timeline.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u17	I would like to ask Mr Mark Owl's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would very much ask you to set a time limit when the resort will be ready for these activities. I am also interested - and I would like the Minister to give us the answers - which voivodships will be subject to the renegotiation of regional programmes. This information was provided by Prime Minister Morawiecki on Monday, who said that it would concern at least several voivodships; he was the only one who provided the Mazowieckie voivodship. I think the marshals are interested in this information being given. And on what basis, what are the reasons for doing this? The second question I have, too. Is it true that the Ministry of Economy and Development intends to amend the Development Policy Law in order to shift some of the tasks, including the management of European funds, from regional governments to voivodships?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u19	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as changes to regional programmes are concerned, they are, of course, possible. This isn't a closed case. and, as far as possible, with the Ministry, such activities may be carried out. On the other hand, some particular work, let us be frank, legislative in this area, concerning this law, which you have had the opportunity to express, is not being carried out here today, although we do not rule out that it can be carried out in the future. As I said in my first speech, today we are reviewing the sources of funding for individual investments that have already been identified in this first version of territorial contracts and - you can say - are potentially ready to be implemented. [[Minister, the deadline for completion and readiness to enter into talks with the regions about contracts...]] As far as the deadline is concerned, I say: it is a matter so complex that I do not want to give a date today, whether it is February or March. On the other hand, as I say, we will carry out this review and we will try to inform you in the near future what direction our work is in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u21	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party, on the amendment of the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister Zbigniew Babalski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Please, the question is asked by Mr Jan Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On 1 May 2016, so for a good cause in a moment, the 12-year protection period for the purchase of Polish land by foreigners ends. The Seym of the previous term of office exactly On 5 August 2015, the Council adopted a law which was to enter into force on 1 January 2016. As we know, this deadline was postponed to 1 May 2016. At that time, as the government has announced, a new law is to be adopted to suspend the sale of real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and to amend certain other laws, in particular the Act on the shaping of the agricultural system. The way these changes are worked out, these laws and the lack of consultation cause great concern in the countryside. This concern is undoubtedly also aroused by the titles of media articles; that is, the first one on the shore: the State will take away the fatherhood of Polish farmers. The result is dozens of farmers in the parliamentary offices, as well as my request, is my question about explaining intentions, in particular - Article. 4 of this new law on the shaping of the agricultural system, which, according to this provision, is intended to lead to the nationalisation of agricultural land by the agency. It will be possible in practically any situation when the land changes owner, i.e. in rural relations - most often through inheritance. So the farmer, making a will or a will before his death, will not be sure that his land will come into the hands of the heir as a father, whether it will be nationalized, nationalized. In this way the right to property becomes de facto only the right to life. Therefore, I have questions: How in the context of the article. 4 the new law on the shaping of the agricultural system, which will de facto lead to the nationalisation of the land by the Agricultural Property Agency, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will this sacred right of inheritance be secured? And whether the proposed amendments do not affect Article. 21th Basic Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u23	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! To answer your question, I would like to confirm that the draft law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain other laws are currently underway. This project was addressed to inter-ministerial arrangements and public consultation on 8 January 2016 and it is therefore not true that there was no public consultation. On 29 January 2016, an inter-ministerial agreement conference took place. On 9 February 2016, and therefore yesterday, this project was addressed to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. According to the WW. For a period of 5 years, the sale of the property of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury will be suspended. It is also proposed to introduce a number of changes, including: in the Act on the Shaping of the Agricultural System of 11 April 2003 and the Act of 19 October 1991 on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. Pursuant to the draft law, the law you mentioned on 5 August 2015 concerning the formation of the agricultural system is repealed. All the proposed amendments, I would like to make this clear, are intended to implement the principle of the Article. 23 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, according to which this principle of the agricultural system in Poland is based on family farms. At the same time, the proposed amendments do not affect any other constitutional rights and guarantees. Mr President, similar solutions, perhaps more restrictive, also exist in the countries of the European Union. As we discuss this law, I will give concrete examples. Now about the art. 4, about the inheritance. The draft law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain other laws does not provide for regulations which could be considered as an infringement of the right of inheritance. There is no nationalisation in the proposed law, Mr President. The provisions of this law only provide that the Agricultural Property Agency will be entitled, I repeat, to rights which it already has, on the basis of the Act on the formation of the agricultural system in force since 2003, i.e. the right of first purchase and the right to acquire agricultural property. The condition provided for in the draft law that the purchaser of agricultural real estate may be an individual farmer alone will not apply to the acquisition of real estate as a result of inheritance and recovery. In view of the above, the right of inheritance is in no way restricted. Moreover, it will not apply to persons who have acquired property as a result of inheritance or recovery record to the holding on the property acquired for at least 10 years. It's completely excluded from this. By extending the answer to this question - in turn, provided for in Article. 7 point 7 of the proposed law changes concerning the exercise by the Agricultural Property Agency of the right to acquire agricultural property will apply only to a situation in which the acquisition takes place on a basis other than the sale contract. And actually here. This may be an inheritance situation, but this other situation is a court ruling, a registered certificate of inheritance. Here I want to explain that it could be, for example. handing over the land in the form of a will. But I want to explain clearly, here you don't have to be a farmer, you don't have to have agricultural rights. I want to make it clear that the agency has powers, not obligations, which means it can benefit or not. This doesn't apply in the first... [[But...]] Mr President, listen, this does not apply to the first line of succession, I repeat, and this is a hard line in the proposed law. Once again, in such a situation, the agency, acting in favour of the State Treasury, will be able to make statements on the acquisition of this property for payment of the equivalent monetary value. Of course, the question cannot be overlooked that the option provided for in this provision is an entitlement, not an obligation of the agency. The Agency is expected to use this option only to prevent speculative rotation of agricultural real estate. The second point that you raised, Mr President, concerns Article. 21, right? [[Not yet, in the extra question.]] Because you put it in writing. [[Yes. Additional question, Minister.]] You're welcome. I'm staying in the bleacher, Mr. Marshal. [[Exactly, if you don't mind, in an additional question, because I didn't fit in with that question that the Minister already has the answer to.]] Yeah, 'cause you put them in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u25	You're welcome. You're only in time for your next question. You're welcome. [[I've got one more minute.]] Please, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u26	That is what concerns the decline in the value of the land, I'm guessing, the Minister has an answer to that. After this law has entered into force, 90% of the population will be excluded from trading in land. Therefore, the value of agricultural land will have a downward trend. Farmers who have taken up loans by mortgage on agricultural land may have a serious problem if the value of agricultural land falls in the coming years and banks demand additional collateral for the loan. There is a serious risk that banks will be very cautious when it comes to financing the agricultural sector. And much of the credit to date can be said - and this is the second fear with which farmers come to me at the parliamentary office, in addition to the right to inherit. Well, you can accept that, Minister, an explanation of the agency's powers, but the vague criteria that you have written there, including the bill, make it, for the good of the case, for the expression, for the head of the agency, whether or not he wants to buy it out as a preemptive. That's not a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u27	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u28	Mr President, if there is a right, it is not an obligation. Each case, Mr President, will be examined on a case-by-case basis. And if there is any suspicion that the land may be traded for speculative purposes, then the agency will then enter, and only in such situations. Mr, you know, I follow all these comments, including the various types of portals that describe the situation, and you are right, the press is also beginning to take an interest in this. But if you'll excuse me, with a very detailed examination of some of the articles, I think that in those questions that you put in writing and asked today, you were also guided by those statements that appeared, I repeat, either on the portals or in various kinds of daily newspapers. One such institution that has undertaken to evaluate the bill - I repeat that this is a project, it will be in committees, we will have time to discuss it further - is a reputable legal office, attorney-client. Of course, I'm not going to mention what an office this is. It is located, it is located in Warsaw, in Krakow, and the authors of this article were two lawyers. On the website of this firm it is presented, among others. in this way: We are convinced that thanks to our over fifteen years of experience, mainly in service - attention - banks and large business entities, most often listed companies, and conducting reprivatization cases... - it somehow shows who speaks the most strongly about the draft of this law, not the bill, I repeat, there is still work ahead of us. And further: We cooperate with foreign law firms such as Germany, Austria, Great Britain. I'm not suggesting anything, I'm just showing that here - with an apology - lawyers lean over the fate of a Polish farmer. I would prefer that we, as Members, do not take part in this trend, Mr President. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u29	Thank you very much. [[God forbid the farmers in politics don't fail.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Zbigniew Babalski: I hope that the lawyers do not lean over the Polish farmer in such a way, sir. [[Applause]] Minister, you will literally have the opportunity to speak in a moment, because the next question will be asked by Mr Michał Jach, Mr Leszek Dobrzyński and Mr Artur Szałabawka. The question is also addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development on the measures taken to eliminate irregularities in the management of agricultural property of the State Treasury in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. Minister Zbigniew Babalski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question will be asked by Mr Michał Jach. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u30	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! From the beginning of the Third Republic of Poland, the rotation of the land from the Treasury resource aroused bigger and smaller emotions, and after joining the European Union these emotions grew. The Apogee reached its peak in 2012 and 2013 when farmers realized that foreign capital was buying arable land in mass and joined open protests, which the press had massly informed about in recent years. Foreign capital uses different methods for this purpose, which is due to leaky regulation. For eight years, unfortunately, the previous government has not done any work that could have sealed this law. I would like to add that the Polish Government is currently unable to determine what number of agricultural areas is in the hands of foreigners. Data available to the Department of Authorisations and Concessions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration - approx. 60 thousand. ha at the end of 2014 - in no way correspond to reality. This allows to doubt whether the Polish state has implemented art in the last 8 years of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. 23 Constitution of the Republic of Poland according to the Polish state ration. I would like to add that foreign investors, buying Polish land, created capital complex groups of companies, which also allowed them to obtain extraordinary undue subsidies from various programmes of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. These pathologies were particularly brightly functioning in Zachodniopomorskie, because in this voivodship there were the most arable land of the State Treasury. In the county of Pyrzycki there was and is the most fertile arable land. This cannot continue to be tolerated. I ask the Minister for information on the measures taken to resolve the irregularities [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the management of agricultural property of the State Treasury in the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u31	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Zbigniew Babalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The main irregularities that occurred in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship concerned the sale of real estate from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury. In particular, they relied on the participation of limited persons who met the criteria of an individual farmer, but who could actually act in favour of third parties. On 17 November 2015, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development instructed the then President of the Agricultural Property Agency to halt all activities resulting from the tasks of the Agricultural Property Agency - this Minister, I will remind you, was and is now Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel - in particular concerning the opening and running of tenders. The basic form of real estate development of the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury is therefore currently leased. The regulations contained in the draft law on the suspension of the sale of agricultural property of the Treasury and on the amendment of certain laws aim at strengthening the protection of agricultural land in Poland against speculative buy-out by domestic and foreign persons, and should therefore prevent irregularities in the management of real estate of the stock. With regard to the amendments to the Law of 19 October 1991 on the Management of Agricultural Property of the Treasury, it is foreseen that after the expiry of a 5-year period, the sale of all agricultural real estate of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury will first be disposed of by a limited tender, which will take account in particular of the provisions of the Act which will determine who will first be able to acquire the land. The purpose of the proposed regulation is to support family farms. The draft law also includes solutions adopted after the protests by farmers in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. These solutions consist in introducing financial sanctions for failure by the purchaser to comply with the undertaking submitted in the contract for 10 years, e.g. the personal pursuit of agricultural activities on land acquired from the stock, and prohibit the mortgage on immovable property acquired from the stock without the approval of the Agricultural Property Agency. In addition, in line with the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the draft law sets out cases in which the Agricultural Property Agency will be able to agree to the lease agreement. It should be made clear that the solutions contained in the proposed law will make it difficult or even end the fictitious transaction process on the so-called. poles, because it will not be possible to acquire real estate from so-called. a pole by a person who is not a farmer and who does not intend to carry out agricultural activities on purchased land. Action to - as you are asking in detail - together with a group of Members, the elimination of emerging irregularities has also been taken by the President of the Agricultural Property Agency. As provided by the President of the Agency: Firstly, all work on the elimination of irregularities will be carried out in conjunction with the social councils appointed in recent weeks by the director of the field departments and with the participation of representatives of the provincial agricultural chambers. Secondly, the field managers, including the newly appointed director of the Field Branch in Szczecin of the Agricultural Property Agency, were obliged to respond on an ongoing basis to emerging signals and doubts as to the impartiality of the members of the tender committees and to analyse them. Thirdly, in the event of a malfunction of the tender, directors are to inform the President of the Agency and the competent authorities without delay. I mean the police or the D.A.'s office. Fourthly, in the case of transactions the method of financing of which may give rise to reasonable doubt will be addressed to the General Financial Information Inspector. Fifthly, the organisational units of the Office of the President of the Agricultural Property Agency shall carry out on an ongoing basis checks and investigations resulting from complaints and the applicants shall be informed of the results of these proceedings and the activities of the Agricultural Property Agency in this respect. Following final inspection procedures, appropriate conclusions and recommendations shall be addressed to the director of the field departments. Sixthly, all employees of the Agricultural Property Agency - I repeat: all - have been obliged to make declarations on possible cases of acquisition of agricultural property of the Treasury both by them and by members of their families. Seventhly, measures have been taken to amend the working rules on the obligation of all workers to present their statements on an ongoing basis in order to prevent a conflict of interest. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u33	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Leszek Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u34	Minister! Maybe not in the form of a question, because I understand that the government is functioning quite briefly, but I will remind you that despite all this prevention, but also prevention, all of these actions you were talking about, this is one side of the coin, while the other side of the coin is transactions already concluded, those which have been reported with great doubts, and some of which, I presume, may actually turn out to be transactions, as you used this phrase here, on the so-called. poles, which are illegal in some way. I understand that in some way there will also be ongoing work that will end with solutions to, to put it simply, deprive these people of this land. I recall the multiple obligations of Jarosław Kaczyński, which took place at meetings with farmers, who clearly and clearly stated that in the future all transactions concluded in violation of the law, those which have avoided the law, those which have bended the law, should simply be annulled. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u35	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u36	Shortly, Mr. Marshal. I would like to inform you, Mr Szczecin, that there are a number of cases which are currently addressed to law enforcement authorities, these are individual cases which are currently being investigated, as well as the Agricultural Property Agency of the Szczecin Terrain Branch, by order of the President, carries out an additional analysis of all transactions that raised doubts and were reported by farmers from the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship. It was a bad example, and we went further, investigating what had already happened not only in the West Pomeranian wards, but also in other field branches of the Agricultural Property Agency located throughout the country. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u37	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Lenz and Mr Arkadiusz Myrch on the negative opinion of the Regional Directorate for Environmental Protection in Bydgoszcz concerning the second-degree construction project with the water power plant and infrastructure accompanying the town of Sierzewo, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship. The question is addressed to the Minister of Environment and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment by Minister Mariusz Gajda. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Lenz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u38	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The development of plans for the construction of the new water barrier in Sierzewo was the result of many years of analysis of specialists and officials. The decision to build a new degree on the Vistula is linked to the existence of a direct threat due to the technical condition of the existing barrier in Włocławek. Unfortunately, given the decision of the Regional Environmental Protection Directorate in Bydgoszcz of 28 January 2016, in which approval for the construction was refused, the implementation of this project is at stake. According to the Regional Environmental Protection Directorate in Bydgoszcz, the task: Ensuring public safety in the water level area in Włocławek - I would like to draw attention to the definition: public safety - using water energy and improving the potential of aquatic ecosystems and dependent waters will permanently change the nature of the river, will have a negative impact on protected areas of Nature 2000. Here I would like to point out that the project prepared by ENERGY has clearly taken into account such a danger. The project presented in Włocławek a few months ago took into account environmental protection in the framework of this project and I do not know if the Ministry was familiar with this project. The doubts also concern the compatibility of investments with Polish and EU regulations. According to the Regional Environment Directorate. In addition, the explanatory memorandum of the decision points out that this task is not included in the master plan approved by the Council of Ministers. However, many specialists and many people involved in the construction of the new dam consider refusal to be unreasonable and not taking into account important development and social considerations for the region. Given the above and the crucial for the safety of the inhabitants of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship construction of a new water level, let me ask myself [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister: Is the resort going to take the initiative to include this investment in the master plan? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u39	Thank you. Please take the floor of Minister Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that below Włocławka must form a water level is without a doubt. Both analyses carried out more than 20 years ago, as well as recent analyses carried out by the Regional Water Management Board in Gdańsk indicate that for the permanent safety of water level in Włocławek it is necessary to build a degree below in several locations. In fact, the most optimal location is the Nieszawa region, without giving details, whether it's a kilometer one way or another. You could talk a lot about what happened to the Vistula below Włocławka. I myself dealt with these matters in my professional work, even in 2001 I was a representative of the government for the construction of the degree in Włocławek. Then, when the SLD-PSL government came, these cases were dropped. As for this decision, I cannot comment on it in detail here at the moment because it is legally traded. He's in legal business. I have my opinion, but she's in legal trade, which means she's entitled to appeal to the Minister of the Environment, I'm sorry, to the General Directorate for Environmental Protection. All I can say is that this decision is indeed controversial and requires a detailed analysis. As I said from the Seym Council, I cannot put pressure on the public when it comes to this decision, which, I will stress, was issued by the Regional Environment Director in Bydgoszcz. It wasn't issued by the Ministry of Environment. The Ministry of Environment has not dealt with this problem so far, while the Regional Environment Director has been involved. As far as I know, the investor will appeal. This appeal will be very carefully considered, and as I said earlier, building a second degree on the Vistula is necessary, for security reasons, for example. Totally, there's no doubt about it. There may be doubts about certain specific, technical solutions, but there is no doubt about the need to build such a degree. I think it would be good if this project was supported by the Polish Treasury company, because this will allow for a reduction in the spending of budget money and for a much more efficient and fast construction of this level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u41	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u42	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, I must admit that we are a little disappointed in this response, because we were hoping that somehow you would respond to the situation, all the more so because we knew what this discussion would be about. I think that commenting in any way on this negative decision of the regional director does not prevent us from explaining this issue here. The Ministry will, of course, also take a position on this issue, and this is such an important investment that, unless the public discussion before the decision is adopted in appeal, is in no way excluded. We hope that the Minister will continue to complete this in some way and address this negative decision. I would like to add this question to one more question, namely whether this negative decision by the regional director and the delay that will necessarily slip into the implementation of this investment can in some way adversely affect also for the implementation of the climate package adopted by Poland, where we committed ourselves to achieving 20% renewable energy, and as we know, this point on the Vistula is an important element of the whole programme. I would also ask for information in this regard. [[In writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u43	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u44	Mr President, I am very familiar with this subject. I could talk about it five hours in detail. I really know this subject very well, really with details, but as I said before, I can't put pressure on it right now. I have my analysis, I know why it's negative, but I can't, I'm sorry, put pressure on state authorities, public authorities. I can only say one thing. I can say one thing - that when I examined this decision, it follows that officials who were officials of the previous government, specifically the President of the National Water Management Board and the Regional Management Board of Water Management in Gdańsk, were blocking this investment. For this reason, it was not recognised and a negative decision was issued. It was simply not accepted by the previous management of the National Water Management Board and the regional water management board. Notice who made that decision at all. President Włocławka in agreement with ENERGY, not the director of the Regional Water Management Board. Few of this, in the draft update of water management plans and flood risk management plans, this investment is included as a task of the Regional Water Management Board in Gdańsk, as a building of a degree in the vicinity of Nieszawa. That's why I don't really understand why it happened. I really don't get it. I also share the Member's view that this investment should be carried out as soon as possible. Unfortunately, it happened the way it happened. I've made up my mind about it, but that's my opinion. I just can't influence administrative decisions from the top. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u45	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Polakzek on the expenditure of the former Ministry of Administration and Digitalisation, on the example of an agreement covering the period from 28 September to 15 November 2015 and aimed at promoting the idea of using the Internet in the everyday life of Poles, for the amount of PLN 2 million. The question is addressed to the Minister of Digitization. Minister Witold Kołodziejski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization. Please, the question is asked by Mr Jerzy Polaczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u46	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Ministry of Digitization published a list of contracts concluded with external entities a few weeks ago between 2011 and 2015 by the former Ministry of Administration and Digitization. We consider this to be a very valuable initiative that promotes transparency in the management of public funds. We were interested in the 2015 agreement, which Mr Marshal quoted here just now, where Mr Andrzej Halicki then paid almost PLN 2 million for the campaign, which was implemented from 28 September to 10 November last year, i.e. about 7 weeks, so on average the week of implementation of this project was estimated at almost 284 thousand. zł. The Minister paid the civil company, which performed this task, PLN 2 million for a social campaign, which is really difficult to say anything about. This seems to be necessary, and I believe that appropriate explanations should be provided here by the Ministry of Digitalization. Firstly, what were the elements of the strategy and concept of this campaign, how much did such creativity cost? Secondly, how many people were involved on the receiving side? What is the effectiveness of this campaign? What effects can we verify after it has been carried out or in a while? In my view, this unclear and outrageous agreement, which results in nearly PLN 2 million being paid, should also be examined by the Minister for Digitalisation in a different aspect than just an administrative or civil aspect and we look forward to your presentation of explanations here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u47	Thank you. Please take the floor of Minister Witold Kołodziejski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the issue of PLN 2 million for the campaign, which was intended to encourage Poles to use the Internet within a few weeks, actually raises a lot of doubts, which is why we have analysed this agreement. The information I will provide is the information taken from the report, while a completely different, separate issue will be the question of interpretation and the appropriateness of taking such measures. Indeed, 28 September 2015 The Ministry of Administration and Digitization has signed an agreement with the partners of a civil company called the Social Communication Factory to develop a social campaign strategy aimed at promoting the idea of using the Internet in everyday life and the production and implementation of its components. This was in line with the decision of the SIWZ and its annexes, the contract and the offer of the contractor. As part of the implementation of the contract, the contractor was obliged to develop a social campaign strategy, to produce and implement a social campaign, i.e. the second stage, in particular the production of spots, the issue of spots, the development and publication of press articles, the execution of direct actions, the implementation of non-standard actions, i.e. PR activities. The third element was the study of the effectiveness of the social campaign. The strategic group to which this campaign was headed was those excluded digitally, not using the Internet - this is the description of these people - i.e. single persons over 45 years of age with basic or basic vocational education with income below the national average for households from less than 20,000 inhabitants. residents. The required channels of communication were television, press, direct actions. The contractor of the contract was chosen in public procurement proceedings to develop a social campaign strategy aimed at promoting the idea of using the Internet in everyday life and the production and implementation of its components. It was conducted in a competitive dialogue mode, that is, let me remind you, a specific procedure in the award of a public contract. This is not a form of tender, but a two-stage form of dialogue. First, in the first stage, the offer is placed in the official journal and on the BIP website, the qualification applications are affected - 16 such applications have been received here from 16 contractors. The proposals have been evaluated, follow-up and clarification activities have been undertaken. As a result, the contractors were pre-qualified and for dialogue and five contractors were invited to submit a tender. I'll just point out that the committee has already evaluated the most advantageous offer. Such a competitive dialogue allows the use of criteria other than price criteria, so the committee, which included members of ministry officials, valued the creative concept of the campaign at 90%, while the gross bid price was only 10% valuation of this offer, which means that the selection procedure was largely discretionary in the sense that it was the committee that decided which of these five offers is more creative, i.e. simply better, regardless of other aspects, and that, as you know, especially in the artistic sphere or in the sphere of social campaigns is to a large extent... It is difficult here for objective indicators and objective measure. The key advertising and direct actions that were carried out - it was the contractor who presented the scenario, created and produced two 30-second TV spots and one 45-second version of the spot. They have been broadcast 1025 times on TVP1, TVP2, TVP ABC, TVP HD, TVP History, TVP Info, TVP Culture, TVP Entertainment, TVP Series and TVP Sport as part of the time-buyer's antenna. So this offer, this production was only broadcast on public broadcasters. As far as other activities are concerned, there has been a product placement in the breakfast program. The presence on TV included a live interview in the studio as part of two antenna inputs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the morning. Do you want me to finish?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u49	Yes. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Witold Kołodziejski: Okay, good. Ladies and gentlemen, much could be said for the details of the campaign. I'd just like to say a little bit about the cost of this campaign. Indeed, it is not easy to spend 2 million PLN in 7 weeks. There's a detailed estimate, I just... Minister, I'm sorry, but you will have the opportunity to add this further to your speech. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Witold Kołodziejski: Okay, just one sentence. The whole strategy cost $4,000. zł, the rest was the implementation of the campaign. Let me remind you that this has been the case in the last months of the year, that is, in the months of the election campaign. Thank you very much. Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Polaczek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u50	Minister, I just want you to repeat - because maybe I heard wrong - that 90% in the evaluation structure of this project was an assessment of creation and 10% price. Secondly, I wanted to ask you a supplementary question, whether there were elements in this project, which was carried out during the election campaign period, such as: Print leaflets and distribute door to door or billboard ads. If you were to try to respond in this spirit to some of the doubts which, I remind you, relate to expenditure from budget resources of PLN 2 million to an entity that has been doing this simply for a few weeks in a year, which we find extremely unclear, so as not to say outrageous... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u51	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Witold Kołodziejski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u52	Yes, it was. As I said, the entire order was conducted in a competitive dialogue mode. Here these parameters can be quite realistic. Weight of the evaluation of applications in 90% was attributed to the concept of creative campaign, and in about 10% - the offered gross price. As I said, the assessment of the creativity of the campaign is quite discretionary. The Commission consisted of nine people, staff of the Ministry. That's one thing. As part of this campaign, in addition to the production of spots, spot emissions were carried out various activities. Let me stress that for the 2 million we are talking about, the positions: creations and strategy, which is something that is extremely important in this type of activity, these are the smallest items, because this is 4420 PLN for each of them, or 8800 PLN for the development of the whole concept. We have consulted these amounts with advertising agencies and it is hard to imagine that there is indeed a campaign in such cost proportions. As far as spot production is concerned, it was 123,000. Later there were indeed also the production of leaflets, and press advertising. There were also distributions of leaflets, there were so-called. mobile training, i.e. the bus that drove in 10 places, visited 10 places. From the description of the implementation of this campaign, we know only that in individual cities, selected cities there was a position and it was possible to come and train free of charge, how to use the computer or how to use the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, one can discuss the individual components of this project, while one thing, very fundamental, is questionable here: Is it worth spending public money in such a way on this kind of campaign? Because the title itself, the idea of an incentive campaign to use the Internet also raises reservations, in 2015. On the other hand, for PLN 2 million the campaign should be a campaign that we will remember for several years. I doubt any of you will remember this campaign in such a social sense. There are few people, I don't know a person who somehow remembers this great media event. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is therefore a fundamental question that we want to clarify, namely the effectiveness of this type of action and the spending of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u53	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Sławomir Nitras and Marcin Kierwiński. The question on retail turnover tax is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance will answer Mr Leszek Skiba. Mr Sławomir Nitras is the first to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u54	Thank you, Marshal. I will start by quoting: Polish entrepreneurship should be protected, supported even by the fact that tax burdens will be borne by large networks of hypermarkets, which pay pennies in relation to their turnover. This is a quote from President Andrzej Duda's statement on 23 March 2015. The bill on retail tax, which was created by the government by Prime Minister Szydło, was intended to support Polish trade, which does not have such credit and capital opportunities as large international trade networks. Right after the election, you presented a bill that made the tax subject to commercial space. It was a project in which a big company, which had e.g. Several hundred 200-metre shops, did not pay tax, and the Polish entrepreneur, having one 300-metre shop, paid. Last week you presented another project, even more dangerous, which introduces a tax for Polish entrepreneurs who have a turnover of more than PLN 1.5 million per month. This is the level of turnover that covers virtually all bakeries, grocery stores, private petrol stations, agricultural and food manufacturers' shops, construction shops. Are you aware that the whole of Poland is watching with concern and does not know what tax it will pay from April and we are happy half of February? Is it even serious to put billions of tax revenues into the budget and in February, so that taxpayers wouldn't know anything about this tax? Hence my questions: What will the tax collection system be, and what obligations will it impose on entrepreneurs? What will be the amount of the tax and what will the tax exemptions be? Will you be exempt from the franchise tax? And let me remind you, Minister, that there are 25,000 in this form. Polish small entrepreneurs, this is 25 thousand. Families, 25,000. Polish employers. Will the payment of the tax be exempt from collaborators creating commercial networks for the sale of their products? Co-operatives who defend themselves against big networks. Are you aware that large companies can afford to spread the costs of this tax even for years and that small companies operating on minimum margins are often placed on the verge of bankruptcy? Minister, I ask you to answer these questions in writing, as well as the most important question: How does this project support Polish entrepreneurs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u55	Thank you very much. Please respond to Minister Paweł Salak... excuse me, Minister Leszek Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm answering the question. Well, the project, which was announced on the website of the Ministry of Finance, is a project around which there is a heated discussion, a lot of interest. This is certainly a reason to reflect on the content of this project. Today at the hour. The 14th meeting will take place at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, where Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister Henryk Kowalczyk will also be attended by Minister of Finance Paweł Szalamach. The project and solutions are still being discussed, i.e. the work is not completed. Since the work is not completed, it is difficult for me to answer specific questions because we would like this project to be in such a shape as to resolve all these doubts and also to dispel the doubts of the Member. Therefore, what I can do is declare that the shape of the bill that is announced is not the ultimate shape. We are aware that there is still discussion, controversy on the part of commercial networks, both Polish and foreign, around the problem of franchise. This discussion is taken into account. Today at the hour. 9 Mr Szalamach met with representatives of the Polish Chamber of Commerce, who paid attention to the problems involved. So we can say that the work is going on, and we are hoping for a hot and fruitful discussion today at hours. 14. That is why I am unable to declare today what the final form of this law will be, especially since this law, which is announced, is not the final version. Thank you very much. [[And how does the project support Polish entrepreneurs?]] How did you... The project will support Polish entrepreneurs in this sense, that the final, final shape of this law will in no way discriminate against Polish or foreign entrepreneurs. There is a fundamental legal framework that allows the law to enter into force and not be challenged by the European Commission. Firstly, it cannot be that the Act prefers in some extraordinary way commercial networks because of their origin, it cannot be discriminatory. I mean, there will certainly be no discrimination against Polish trade and it is not the aim of any work on this bill at all, that representatives of Polish trade consider this project dangerous, dangerous, damaging to Polish trade. That wasn't the purpose of working on this bill at all. Of course, we take into account the Hungarian experience, the consequence of which is among others. The fact that large progress in terms of rates will actually lead to the project being challenged even at an earlier stage than the entry into force. So it is not possible to adopt such extreme or very sharp progress in terms of rates, because the strong progress in terms of rates has caused the Hungarian project to be challenged by the European Commission. In fact, we take into account these circumstances, which causes, which means that a project with a large, sharp progression is not possible to implement in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u57	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Marcin Kierwiński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u58	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, It's a little ridiculous that the tax is supposed to apply from April 1st, and you say in mid-February that actually the shape of this tax is still unknown. Let me remind you that you have saved in the budget 2 billion revenues from this tax, so it would be better if such revenues were to be, so that it turns out pretty quickly what this project looks like. But we are working on what we see, so from what we see, this tax is supposed to hit Polish companies in general. This may not have been the intention, but these records are hitting Polish companies. So I would like to ask you, however, what records you want to enter in order to secure the interests of Polish companies. And then there's the second line. E-commerce is an industry where Polish entrepreneurs are really very dynamic. You also want to tax this industry. Are you going to pull out of this idea? This is an industry that has low entry barriers, so it's very good to have [[♪ The bell ♪]] Catch up with the West. Here these differences between Poland and the West are small, and you want to tax it. Will you withdraw from this evil, harmful idea? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u59	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u60	Thank you very much. Well, I cannot declare in any official way that the law will prefer any company as regards origin, because all public statements of government representatives will be taken into account in the decision-making process by the European Commission... [[But the taxpayers are waiting!]] ...as regards the compatibility of a project with European law. It is certainly the case that the work on the free amount will take into account the operation of many small shops, so that this element of the free amount and the work on setting the level of the free amount will aim to ensure that this small trade is excluded from taxation. In this project this amount is actually free and, in fact, it can be said that the determination of this amount free is an important objective of the draft law. I don't think... I mean, I don't think it's possible to question the idea that the amount free exists. As far as online commerce is concerned, the bill must somehow address the problem of retail trade, which operates on the Internet and in a traditional form. Therefore, it cannot be that there is a preference. I mean, the abolition of any form of online trade taxation will actually have a negative impact on traditional trade. In fact, we will have the same negative effects in terms of traditional trade, we could have very strong negative effects in terms of the fact that trade is going online and this has consequences for jobs, for the chain of shops. Therefore, setting up this law in such a way that taxation would include online trade in a meaningful way so that there would not be any strong the negative effects on Internet commerce, as well as traditional trade, is the aim of this law. As the work on this project is not completed... [[And when will they be completed?]] ...I cannot answer the question which specific provisions will be presented when it comes to online commerce. But I'd be happy to prepare... we'll answer in writing... [[Any chance the taxpayers will know from April?]] [[From the first.]] [[April Fool's Day.]] [[Let's assume if it gets warmer.]] Exactly. Thank you very much. [[Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi and Mrs Agnieszka Ścigaj, Kukiz Club15, on the change of the structure of the operation of police stations in Łaziska Górne and Orzesz in the Silesian Voivodeship. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Minister Jarosław Zieliński will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u62	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Minister, Well, we received disturbing information about planned changes in how to organize police stations in some towns of the Silesian Voivodeship. According to this information, the Police Command in Katowice approved the application of the relevant district commanders, which are subject to the facilities, at this point I mean Laziska Górne and Orzesze - the application which assumed the closure of police stations in the night, i.e. from 3 p.m. 22 to 10 p.m. 6:00 a.m. It follows from this information that this project has not been consulted in any way with either the local authorities or trade unions, officials or the local community at all. According to the report, these decisions were based on statistics, according to which relatively few reports of crimes were made during the night, during the night. Of course, the doubts and legitimate concerns of the residents are raised by such a decision, as well as by the decision to liquidate the duty stations in these precincts, in some way. This makes it difficult for citizens to access police stations. You might even be worried about the night hours, who's gonna be watching these precincts at night, these buildings. The Upper and Orzesze Łaziska are 40,000. residents, people in need can receive real help at the police stations every night. A smaller number of events recorded in the computer system in the middle of the night only indicates that the stakeholders are being sent back, they must come in the morning, and not that nothing happens at night, which would be generally good information if nothing were to happen. Lower system activity [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, it cannot be an excuse to turn away from the problems of the inhabitants. Therefore, Minister, please answer: Are you familiar with this problem? What is the minister's attitude towards such practices? Would you recommend that the Minister examine the relevant conclusions of the district commander and the decisions of the provincial commander? Are similar arrangements for the organisation of police work across the country? I'm just going to add that today I've been informed that it's supposed to be reversed or reversed. If that is the case, then the question is whether, in the future, when such changes are made, there is, however, a consultation with the local community, local authorities, police unions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u63	Thank you, sir. The questions are answered by Minister Jarosław Zieliński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, During the previous coalition for 8 years, schools, Polish Post offices, cultural institutions, libraries, bus and railway connections and police stations were liquidated in mass. They were eliminated at that time over 400, because when we handed over power in 2007, in December, there were 817 police stations in Poland. When we returned after eight years, we found 399 of them, so more than half of the police stations were eliminated. We as Law and Justice, being in opposition, strongly opposed this process. Now there are more than a thousand such meetings, and there will be several thousand of them in Poland, which will serve to develop threat maps and security maps across the country, in individual cities, municipalities, powiats, settlements, literally throughout the country, as long and wide. Now that these works are going on, and their result may be decisions on the playback of some previously by PO-PSL, by that coalition, the decommissioned police stations, or even the creation of them where they were not before, if this threat map indicates that there are greater threats and it is necessary to do so, the police stations or police stations, it is in some places in Poland, and such a place has been pointed out by the Member, there are decisions that are going under the current of this operation. I would like to thank all the Members, the senators, the local authorities and the people who have addressed us on this matter. Thanks to this, we have learned that this process of liquidation of office posts in police stations in two places mentioned by the Member, i.e. in Łaziska Górnych and Orzesz, is taking place at all. The decisions that were made immediately, as you noted, were made to withdraw. I recommended it to the chief of police, and he recommended it to the chief of the voivodship, and he recommended it to the district commander appropriate in both cases. I appeal to the chiefs from this pulpit, and to everyone: you have to think in every place where you are, where you came to work, [[Applause]] where we've come to make decisions, especially to watch, to listen to our leadership. If the management says we are against the liquidation of police stations, we are in favour of restoring them where they are needed, and someone is actually leading to a partial liquidation of them, closing these police stations for afternoon and night hours, that is, going against the current. Gentlemen, do not go against the current because it will not be tolerated, it will not be tolerated, I say it in advance, clear and clear. The decisions have been stopped, there will be shifts at these precincts. Mr President, I assure you all, ladies and gentlemen, that no liquidations will take place anywhere in Poland. In the rule of law and justice nothing will be destroyed, nothing, [[Applause]] Unless something is completely unnecessary, of course, this is different. [[It will be.]] Therefore, if there are no children in school, it is difficult to maintain a school for zero children, but if necessary nothing will be removed, on the contrary, we will play a lot of institutions, just as we are replaying railway or bus connections already at the moment, this process will take place further. The threat map is to recognize the threat and to adapt police forces and means to these threats, to make the dislocation that results from the real threat, not even from police statistics, although in part, but we can read police statistics critically. That's why there's consultation, which is why there's a lot of meetings, thousands of meetings. There's about two and a half thousand. Municipalities in Poland, meetings will be more than 2.5 thousand, because in larger municipalities and cities there will be several, or even several tens, dozens of them. It's already happening. I assure you, everyone... I would like to thank, in particular, the first person who informed me of this, Mrs Izabela Kloc, who was the first person on the subject, but then there were other Members, senators, local governmentmen and residents, for this signal, because he allowed me to react, in the service mode, appropriate dispositions were issued. You ask the Member if it will be like this elsewhere. And there, in Łaziska Górnych and Orzesz, this will not be the case, and in other places in Poland it will not be the same. [[Good.]] There are requests from local government officials to recreate police stations in many localities. Where there is a need and there will be cooperation, especially from local governments, they will be played back. We have even prepared a pool of jobs for this purpose, so that we do not always do it at the expense of district or urban commands, although of course they also have to give something from each other, put some effort into it. I have always opposed the concentration of police forces only in big cities or even in cities, and the discovery of communal and district Poland. That's what the previous coalition did. She was unveiling the entire area of the country. There were no police stations there, there wasn't close to a police officer, you couldn't report to him because he wasn't there. The response time was increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, these days are over. As long as we're in charge, it won't be. I say this clearly, clearly and whoever opposes it must be aware of the consequences. That's not gonna happen. We will try to ensure that these terrain structures function around the clock - of course, where possible - not 8 hours. This isn't the administration, this is the service. According to other rules, it's all done. We also want to make, we are already making - not that we just want - other decisions. We're trying to narrow down the neighborhood network. The district will have a bigger role to play. We want to change the image of the police in the eyes of the public. The police are supposed to help first, and then punish when someone's crossing the law. He must be helping the citizens. That's why we pay taxes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The police must be close to the citizens, their structures must be close. A policeman must be where he needs to be. There must be speed of response and a sense of service not only in the name, but in the performance of this daily service. To conclude, I want to make it clear that there will be no termination of duty. They will function. They've been restored. All over Poland the process of eliminating anything, at least from what is subject to us - I speak on behalf of our department of home affairs and administration - has been stopped.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u65	Thank you. Additional question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u66	Thank you. Minister! I'm very happy to hear what I'm hearing, and thank you for this information. At the same time, as part of the supplementary question, I would like to call for further decisions concerning all police structures, restructuring, changes, etc., which, of course, are sometimes justified, but always to consult - so that it is a principle - local authorities, residents, and also not to forget the trade unions of policemen who have experience and good will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u67	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u68	As Ministry, we have great and constant contacts with the unions of uniformed services. At the various levels of police management, of course. He makes a lot of arrangements. Everywhere we recommend that these contacts be partners, so that they are appropriate, that they be constant, above all, to talk about all of this. That's why there's this consultation on threat maps, just to figure out strategic solutions and decisions -- not even individual ones, but strategic ones -- where the police stations are supposed to be, where the stations are supposed to be, how they're supposed to work, how they're going to compact this network, or whether they're going to leave it as it is. Previously these stations were eliminated, as I said, over 400 and they were mechanical decisions. After all, the commanders - I know this, because we followed it and protested against it - received limits, how much they were supposed to eliminate in the various voivodships, and the voivodships imposed these limits on the powiats. Now we don't want to take mechanical playback, which means we don't want to act so that where the precinct was, and it's gone, it's going to be again, right? If there's a need, it will, but perhaps there's a need elsewhere, so it's supposed to be a substantive identification of the threats. That's what it's for. We want to be in very close contact with local governments. Of course, the police are your responsibility. So we will consult, but we will make decisions on our own responsibility. It is obvious and please accept this principle, because in uniform services there is hierarchical subjection and vertical responsibility for decisions. Of course, we want cooperation with local authorities and local communities. These consultations shall be attended by NGOs, civil organisations, citizens, the media. We want to do it wide. That's how it's going to happen right now, and it's going to be even wider. So that I fully agree with you when it comes to the philosophy of action and the methodology of conduct. We will do so, but we are ultimately responsible for the decisions we are going to make after hearing them all, but on our own responsibility. We will also decide because there are sometimes five different sentences in a given case and it is difficult to reconcile, it must be settled. We can't tolerate such paralysis. We can't stand to discuss it forever. Here about the Upper Laziska and the Peanut... [[Peanut.]] Peanut, I'm sorry. You always have to think about local names, ask about them. That's right. Of course, the district commander - and the voivodship accepted it, approved it - argued that there are few reports that these posts are not used much. We were told -- when we asked about it, but it was obviously not agreed before the decision, but when the reaction occurred, it was explained why it was going to happen -- that it blocked five police posts in each of these units, and the reports were on average within 24 hours, so it could be a fraction, not more than two. And that was an argument to withdraw these jobs. I understand this temptation, but I absolutely do not approve of it and do not accept it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is important to remember that it is also important - and I will end there - to be ready to respond. The train is always to go at the same time no matter how many people it takes. This is the value, isn't it, that you can always use it, which encourages passengers to use the railways or, for example. buses or other services. Same here. Poland's post office is the same. The current is always ready to turn it on, isn't it? The police must always be ready to react, whether there are events at a given time, whether there are more or less, but she cannot, because for a certain period there have been fewer events, to withdraw from the given area. This is a big mistake. The police on the phone - this concept has been promoted for 8 years - is a misconception. We don't share it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u69	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Dariusz Bąk, Mr Jerzy Gosiewski and Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. The question on the reasons why the Polish Government complained about the stabilisation reserve mechanism in the carbon market and at what stage is the complaint. He's headed to the Minister of Environment. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment will answer Mr Paweł Salek. Mr Dariusz Bąk will be the first question to be asked. [[Me.]] Mr Jerzy Gosievski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u70	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, As proposed in January 2004, the EU ETS market stabilisation reserve will operate by initiating the modification of the auction calendar in cases where the total number of allowances traded goes beyond the pre-defined scope. The initial start date of that reserve was amended from 2021 to 2019. In 2014, the governing authority in Poland accepted the stabilisation reserve, which will be a huge burden for Poland, will delay the economic development of our country. This year, the Government of Law and Justice complained to the Court of Justice of the European Union about the decision to set up a so-called mechanism on the EU emissions trading market. the stabilisation reserve. The purpose of the complaint is to delay the time when this mechanism will start operating. The optimal solution would be to completely abandon its use. Minister! What were the reasons and reasons why the government complained about the stabilisation reserve mechanism in the CO market, namely carbon dioxide, and at what stage is the complaint at present? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u71	Thank you. Please take the floor of Minister Paweł Salek. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Decision of the European Parliament of 6 October establishing the so-called "European Parliament'. The stabilisation reserve mechanism introduced a mechanism for controlling the allowance market into the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. This mechanism could and can function at the time of the large excess market allowances obtained from the transfer of emission allowances from the auction pool. This mechanism can also function in the event of a shortage of market power. The current government has decided to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This proposal states that we are calling for the annulment of the Council and Parliament's decision of 6 October, because, in our opinion, the government's reserve created by limiting the pool of allowances available on the market will lead to an increase in the price of allowances, so that companies in Poland will be forced to change the fuel used to less emissions, thus influencing the energy mix at both the level of companies and the country as a whole. The government, Poland does not recognise this way of creating a market and influencing the carbon market, CO, because it is related to far-reaching dependence on raw materials that are not available in our energy and fuel structure. In general, the government recognises that further reductions in emissions in the energy sector would be some discrimination against national energy structures and would be unreasonable in an efficient way. It would thus reduce Poland's competitiveness at the level of the national economy, and would not safeguard the sovereignty of the country in terms of shaping its own fuel mix. The complaint was lodged at the beginning of January 2016. The preparatory process concerning the lodging of the complaint has been in principle since the start of the appointment of the new government, i.e. since the turn of November and December 2015. All documents and justifications have been forwarded to the court and at this point we are waiting for the official registration of the complaint, as well as information on the exchange of correspondence between the parties, which will serve to establish or rather show the positions of both parties. As regards time-related matters, with what it will look like, we estimate that about 6 weeks after registration in the Official Journal of the European Union, the notice that such a complaint is being made will be published. We estimate that there will be countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, the Czech Republic and Hungary that will join us in the judicial process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u73	Thank you, Minister. With an additional question, Mr Dariusz Bąk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As we look at the whole situation related to the establishment of this supposed stability in the carbon market, it is clear that Western European countries are increasingly directly imposing their visions in many areas of socio-economic life in our country. This administrative interference in ETS emissions prices is in practice nothing more than the next hit on Polish coal energy. It should be made clear that, as a result of this decision, we will again pay more for electricity. Unfortunately, a number of examples of the helplessness of the PO-PSL government towards Western Europe include the lack of a firm response to this decision. I have a question for the Minister. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Government of Law and Justice responds immediately to what threatens the Polish economy, but is this an action before the Court of Justice the ultimate rescue action in this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u75	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, With regard to the question asked by the Member, I would like to say in this way: indeed, the European Union's climate policy is now very ambitious in terms of greenhouse gas reduction targets. Here we are talking first of all about carbon dioxide, because this carbon dioxide is basically converted into other greenhouse gases, always equivalent. The complaint in our assessment should be complex and it is good that it has been lodged, also because we hope that it will be dealt with positively by the European court. In this situation, in such a scenario Polish companies will have a larger pool of rights, a greater possibility to purchase, there will be a greater number of these rights on the market, and therefore it was necessary to lodge this complaint. At the same time, we are trying to be active in the field of climate policy pursued by the European Union, which is why we believe that the more effective issue of climate protection and reducing carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere is to use the natural process of carbon dioxide absorption by forests rather than to decide that we will use carbon capture and storage, i.e. carbon dioxide injection, because we believe that the absorption mechanism, which is permitted by global law, allows for a more cost-effective fight against climate change. Coming back for a while, if possible, to matters related to Poland's and the European Commission's relations before the Court of Justice of the European Union - the so-called experience. the national allocation plan for 2008 and the Commission decision under appeal in 2007 on this plan shows that our arguments were strong at the time, because Poland doubled the so-called process. KPRU II won. We hope that our strong arguments will also be reflected in the court case before the Court of Justice when it comes to the MSR complaint, and we will have to wait a while for this judgment. We will keep your fellow Members informed of the situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u77	Thank you, Minister. I'm declaring a two-minute technical recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 50 hrs 12 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We're looking at point nine of order. We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Mr Zbigniew Dolata and Mr Witold Czarnecki will be asking about irregularities in the privatisation process of the Konin and Adams Coal Mine Group, resulting in a difficult situation in the region. Question for the Minister of Treasury. Mr Marek Zagórski, Minister of State, is responsible for the Ministry of Treasury. Mr Zbigniew is the first question to be asked... [[Richard Bartosik.]] Mr Richard Bartosik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2012, the government of the Civic Platform sold 85% to the Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów-Adamów-Konin Power Plant shares of Konin and Adams mines. For the shares of both companies, the power plant paid over PLN 175 million. Privatisation is considered scandalous because the value of equipment in these mines, the scrap value of this equipment is much, much higher. In addition, the investor, i.e. ZE PAK, committed that by 31 December 2016 it will invest in mines over PLN 250 million. Employees obtained employment guarantees - in direct production positions when coal was extracted for 36 months and remained for 6 months. However, the situation in both sold mines and the power plant team is very difficult. Since February, group redundancies have been prepared in the Konin mine, and miners from the Adamów mine have been transferred to Konin, resulting in a reduction of almost 50% in their salary. The trade unionists with special letters addressed the owner of ZE PAK SA and the Minister of Treasure and Justice, and filed a notice at the prosecutor's office in which they accuse the board of directors, among others. non-fulfilment of the privatisation agreement. On 28 January 2016, the company's authorities informed of the closure of Koźmin's quarry in the Adamów mine, although it was not recovered to the end of the remaining coal. I ask the Minister of the Treasury to answer the question whether the privatisation agreements by ZE PAK are being implemented, as well as whether the privatisation of KWB Adamów and Konin will be thoroughly examined and thoroughly examined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u79	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! The question of privatisation of the mine has already been examined several times, it is analysed in the Ministry. First of all, it was the subject of scrutiny by the Supreme Audit Chamber, which raised a number of doubts about this matter. First of all, I'm going to remind you how this process went because I think it's pretty important. The whole process started on 14 July 2011, although it is important to be aware that the whole process started with a rather unfortunate way of privatising the entire power plant team in 1999. That's when the power plant was privatized separately, leaving the mines. An announcement was published on July 14th. This announcement was influenced by three offers. One from the PAK Power Plant, the other from the Społełe Plus company, and the third from Carlson Private Equity. After an analysis of the initial offers were accepted two companies - Społem Plus and PAK, which submitted binding offers. At the same time, the PAK Power Plant's binding offer was 120,793 thousand. PLN for the shares of both mines, and the offer of the company Społem Plus amounted to 263 531 thousand. At the same time, the offer of Spolem Plus was rejected because the investor did not provide reliable sources of financing for the transaction. Therefore, only the PAK Power Plant has been negotiated. With the power plant team, negotiations were held in April 2012, from March to April 2012, and in the course of these negotiations, it is worth noting that three offers were made. The first offer, preliminary, before the start, was almost 150 million. The binding offer was presented at an amount of almost 121 million. During the negotiations there was an improved offer binding for almost 185 million, and the final price negotiated amounted to PLN 175.5 million, i.e. this price discrepancy at the very beginning of this process was quite large. The negotiations, which ended on 19 April, did not cover labour issues. These are generally agreed between the trade union and the investor, in which case they have failed and no agreement has been reached with the social side. On 28 May a sales agreement was signed which, as I said, covered a transaction price of 175 499 thousand. - the purchase price of both mines, the investor offered and paid 67 320 thousand for the Adams. zł. The plant team committed to an investment of 250 million and declared workers' guarantees to Adamowa and Konin, directly employed in production, with the extraction of coal for 36 months, and to other workers for a period of 6 months. The price that was set was 6,8% higher than the lower threshold of the value recommended by the advisor, by 18.3% lower than the upper threshold of the value recommended by the privatisation advisor but by more than 70% lower than the upper threshold of the value derived from the valuation using the comparative method. Because it is important to remember that at least two offers are accepted for privatisation. In this case, the valuations proposed by the advisor were two, i.e. the discounted cash flow method and the multiplier method. And here there are very large discrepancies, because with the accepted offer, i.e. the discounted cash flow method, the price per share ranged between PLN 6,18 and PLN 8,08, while if a multiplier method were to be accepted, this price should be in the range of PLN 18,22 per share to PLN 22,48 per share of the company. The advisor recommended a lower price because, as he claimed, the time horizon of the mine's operations is short. It was expected that mining would take place there by 2017. However, NIK - and we agree with this view - notes that despite the assumption of the end of the extraction, it was assumed that investment expenditure would increase in the following years and that their total level over the forecast period would be 241 million only in the Adamów mine, while the total investment commitment of 250 million was related to two mines. That was supposed to lower the price, too. Therefore, the final price proposed was 67 million for the Adamów mine and estimated [[♪ The bell ♪]] If we accept the second method rejected by the counselor, it should be 177 million, only for the Adams. And the final price for both mines is 175 million. We believe that this privatisation procedure was indeed flawed, all the more so that the operation of the mine was profitable, the more that the operating resources at its disposal amounted to PLN 65 million and, what is important, the mine was not in debt. So we view this privatisation process as very bad. We are now examining and analysing the implementation of investment commitments and contractual obligations and we will have an answer on this matter within approximately 1.5 months. First of all, we are looking at the issue of investment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u81	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Dolata.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Minister said that the privatisation agreement was flawed. I'd say harder: it was outrageous. And I would like to ask you, in order to get an answer from the Minister, if the result of this analysis shows that the new owner is failing to comply with the privatisation agreement - there is, for example, the issue of collective redundancies, whether they are within the conditions that have been negotiated or not - if it turns out that the owner does not implement the privatisation agreement, then can this agreement simply be terminated. Because the reservations that are raised by the representatives of the crew by the trade unions seem to be very serious. So what consequences might the owner possibly have if these analyses showed that he was not fulfilling his obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u83	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u84	Each privatisation agreement must provide for contractual penalties. Unfortunately, I cannot at the moment tell you exactly what contractual penalties were provided for in this agreement. If necessary, I will give a precise written reply. This is the first step. That is, at a time when individual points of the contract are not implemented, it is about whether they are sanctioned or not within the contract. And this is the first course of action, the first mode of evaluation of this. I'm telling you again. In the case of obligations vis-à-vis employees, this obligation was a voluntary commitment, because the agreement was not concluded, and unfortunately, unfortunately, it cannot be sanctioned, i.e. this cannot be the reason for imposing contractual penalties on the investor. On the other hand, as I said, we will carefully analyse the implementation of all the commitments that result from this agreement, above all investment commitments, and the investment outlays were estimated at a very high value. In the event that this agreement is not implemented, we will consider taking all possible legal measures. I do not want to assess this at the moment and make declarations on the possibility of termination of the contract in its entirety, but certainly, if the investor did not implement the agreement, we will, as I said, apply all possible sanctions and measures available to protect the interests of the Treasury in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. And the last question will be asked by Members: Ms Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz, Mr Piotr Babinetz and Mr Bogdan Rzońc. This is a question about problems hindering the development of the oil and gas industry in Podkarpacie. The question is addressed to the Minister of Treasury. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Treasury, Minister Henryk Baranowski, will answer. I ask Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz to ask her questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! For many years, activities in the field of exploration, extraction and distribution of natural gas and oil in south-eastern Poland have been restricted. Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo has liquidated further facilities in the Podkarpackie voivodship or has consistently reduced their functioning, bringing in, among others. a large, several hundred-person plant in Jarosław with annual profits of PLN 4,5 million for the role of a small distribution point. At the same time, the assumptions adopted and provided by PGNiG in advance were not consistent with changes in the decision, among others. restoring the operation of one of the previously decommissioned small facilities, a small gas distribution point in Dynów. These actions raise questions about the transparency of decisions and the validity of the arguments put forward by the previous PGNiG authorities over the past years to improve the efficiency of these units. The so-called process. The restructuring resulted in a reduction and collapse of energy infrastructure in smaller towns, thereby reducing the level of service to local customers. Here I particularly want to refer to two units. It is a gas point in Lubaczów, which was liquidated in 2015, a point which served 7 thousand. recipients. Due to the fact that the district of Lubaczowski is one of the major powiats in the voivodship, it made it difficult to access and contact customers, because often these distances by eliminating the point were reduced to about 1.5 hours of commuting time. This, of course, reduces the level of security of services and contact with service recipients. And the second point I raised earlier. It is a large branch of the Gas Plant in Jarosław, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in which employment has been reduced from 600 people to 40 people. The branch had as many as four pressing stations, two transmission stations, and served 4.5 thousand. km2, moved to Tarnow, where the infrastructure is much poorer, and this is one of the most gassed areas in the country. My question in this connection is whether the Ministry would like to analyse the situation and adverse changes that occurred in previous governments, the Civic Platform and the PSL, and would like to consider the reversal of these infrastructure changes, with a view to restoring the real efficiency of energy sector facilities based on the raw material potential of the site, and ensuring the stabilisation, investment and development of the oil and gas industry in Podkarpacie? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u87	Thank you, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In response to the question concerning the development of the oil and gas industry in Podkarpacie, I kindly inform you that Podkarpacie - which is probably well known - has been an important area associated with the extraction of hydrocarbons in Poland for many, many years. The first mines were built in this area already in the 19th century. Since then, to this day, natural gas and oil mining activities in the area have been carried out. The operation of hydrocarbons in Podkarpacie runs the PGNiG Division in Sanok. The extraction of high methane and nitrogened natural gas and crude oil takes place in 36 mines: 18 gas, 13 gas and 5 oil mines. Currently, works are being carried out on 88 natural gas deposits and 40 oil deposits. On 85 natural gas deposits permanent exploitation is carried out, while other gas deposits are in preparation for development. On 36 oil deposits, continuous exploitation is carried out, while the remaining four deposits are in preparation for the start of extraction. The extraction takes place in this area with approximately 2 thousand. oil and gas wells with different depths of production horizons available. In the Carpathian area the annual extraction of raw materials is set at 1.5 billion m3. In 2015, six wells on deposits already operated in Sanoku were put into operation: Przemyśl 284 and Przemyśl 282K, Dziekków 23, Ksiżpol 19, Zalesie 2 and Zalesie 21, one well of Dąbrowa 1K Buda under test operation, and two new deposits were put into operation: the Białoboki Bia3obki bed deposit. The total increase in mining capacity amounted to about 7 thousand last year. m3 / h calculated on the methane gas. These data show the degree of involvement of entities with the involvement of the State Treasury in the development of the oil and gas industry in this section. In this context, it should be noted that in previous years, intensive seismic and drilling research has been and is being carried out in the area of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, which aims to discover new oil and gas deposits. In the area of Sanoka, Krosna and Jasła, as well as Rzeszów, seismic photos of 2D and 3D are taken, on the basis of which further drilling is designed. At the same time, seismic research is being carried out in the area of the city of Przemyśl. The result of the work is the discovery in Podkarpackie Voivodeship of new natural gas deposits in Siedleczki, Przeworska and Kramarzówka region. Two deep drilling sites near Sanok - Dukla 1, and Przemyśl - Kramarzówka 1, have discovered forward-looking levels with great opportunities for commercial oil and natural gas flows. Drilling and exploration will continue in these areas. Further boreholes are expected to be carried out in order to obtain new deposits, to identify the deposits already discovered and to maintain production on exploited deposits. One of the main operating facilities, on which there is still a large resource and production potential, is the natural gas deposit in the vicinity of Przemyśl. In the opinion of the PGNiG Capital Group, the area of Podkarpackie Voivodeship is still one of the most forward-looking areas for exploration of oil and natural gas in Poland. At the same time, it should be noted that in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship there are underground natural gas warehouses in the towns of Brzeźnica, Husów, Strachocina and Swarzów. They play an important role in ensuring energy security through the ability to maintain mandatory stocks of natural gas and commercial quantities and increase our country's energy independence during peak natural gas demand. Currently, an investment in expansion of the first of the above mentioned is carried out. warehouses, i.e. Underground Earth Gas Warehouse Brzeźnica. It should be noted at the same time that the main objective of the PGNiG Capital Group is to maintain a stable extraction of natural gas and oil from domestic deposits. The PGNiG Capital Group will continue its exploration and exploration of natural gas and oil deposits in Poland on its most forward-looking concessions. At the same time, I would like to inform the High House that PGNiG's bodies are undergoing dynamic changes. Before the newly appointed board, which will start functioning, I hope, from tomorrow, will be the permanent task of ensuring the company's proper functioning and development also in the area of Podkarpacie, and perhaps mainly in the area of Podkarpacie. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One of the first tasks of the new management board of the company will be to verify the restructuring activities that have taken place in recent years in order to determine their purpose and rationality from the point of view of the interest and strategy of the State and the interests of the company. All decisions will be assessed and corrective actions will be taken into account in the company's new strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u89	Thank you. The additional question will be asked by Mr Piotr Babinetz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Due to the strategic importance of the oil and gas industry for the energy security of Poland, it is necessary to strengthen this branch of the economy also in Podkarpacie. Needs, among others. investments and reconstruction of existing mines and wells, providing new concessions for the extraction of natural gas deposits in the area of the Przemysl Land and oil in the Jasielsko-Krosnieńsko-Sanoc region. This would strengthen PGNiG, especially the PGNiG Branch in Sanok, which you spoke about, and provide jobs for many people in a region at risk of high unemployment. In addition, in Podkarpacie support is required by PGNiG's subsidiary: Technologies based in Krosno and Exalo based in Pile, which, however, has its branches in Jasla and Krosno. The strategic pro-investment decisions of PGNiG will allow to increase the number of orders for PGNiG Technologies, i.e. the area of oil and gas construction, and Exalo, that is the area of drilling and services. These activities would strengthen these companies and provide jobs. Question: Will the Ministry and PGNiG lead [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the redevelopment of this industry in Podkarpacie, because Podkarpacie is the cradle of the oil and gas industry? Second question, referring to the statement by Mrs PGNiG: Will the Ministry and PGNiG lead to the restoration of the decommissioned gas plant in Lubaczów and the demoted gas plant in Jarosław? Please also reply in writing if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u91	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u92	We would be delighted to give this reply in writing. On the other hand, referring to the Member's question about PGNiG Technologies and Exaco... [[Exalo. Exalo, I'm sorry.]] The situation of these companies is known and, as it is said, in the area of concern of the current Management Board of PGNiG. It should be recalled that there has been some collapse in the mining market in recent years. This situation is diagnosed and appropriate corrective or financial improvement measures, especially PGNiG Technologies, will be undertaken, probably also jointly with Gaz-System. These conversations, I hope, are going on, at least those were management assurances. We will keep these companies up to date, if you will allow me. On the other hand, returning to the subject of restructuring, also the subject of liquidation of points or branches in Jarosław, this topic is known to the Management Board of PGNiG, who is working on the subject. Let the new board recognize the situation, assess it properly and take certain steps. All these activities will be reported to the High House. Is that an answer enough? [[Mr Anna Schmidt-Rodziewicz: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this session of the Sejm, information on the situation of health care will be considered, which was presented by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Spa, health care in Poland we have been observing for 8 years when the sector is privatized and this is contrary to the article. 68 constitutions, where a guarantee is enshrined - guaranteed by public authorities to every citizen, regardless of his or her material situation - access to public-funded healthcare services. Spa treatment is an integral part of the health system, it is a very important part of it. The removal of millions of Poles from sanatorium treatment is therefore a violation of constitutional records. Law and Justice particularly promotes and supports this field of medicine because no one can be discriminated against, and everyone has the right to benefit from it in order to improve their health. That's where I'd like to address the sanatorium questions to the ministry. In recent years thanks to PO-SLD-PSL we are seeing a new social division, very simple, on the poor and rich. This also applies to medical care, including sanatorium care. Public sanatoriums first fall and then sell for symbolic zloty to colleagues and turn into SPAs. Is a reform of this type of medicine envisaged, a return to normal rules of use, i.e. those that guarantee first and foremost recovery to the patient through prevention and prevention? In the West: 1 euro spent on a patient in a sanatorium is 3 euro profit for the economy. Why are the patients most often retired? Since staying in a patient-friendly sanatorium grants the NFZ and the stay is long, the working man has no choice as to the place, nor as to the term and gives up the benefits of improving his health because he is afraid of losing his job. Will that change? Shouldn't labour medicine offices have the right to decide whether or not to order workers to go to sanatoriums? Have all the sanatoriums been sold for priceless and turned into a spa? This subject needs to be analysed. Is there any form of central control over both private and self-government sanatoriums? Because sanatoria is a bitch, will the rules for financing sanatoria change? Will institutions be set up to control finance, the living conditions of curators, the scope of medical services provided? In the sanatoriums that remain, can you expect to improve the organization in the near future, to strengthen the proper satisfaction of the needs of the curator? Will children's health services in particular be given priority when it comes to controls? Here I want to give an example of the Rabka sanatorium, because the health and health deficiencies are so great here that I am raising this issue. Many times, but unsuccessfully, I have been interpelling in this matter to Silesian marshals since 2013. And here I would like to stress that with you, Edward Siarka, we had a similar position and similar documentation as regards the operation of this facility. Will the control system of these facilities be restored? Looking at the Rabka sanatorium and the administrative and ownership turmoil, I know that adults have abandoned small patients. Would it not be appropriate to carry out a financial audit of sanatoria over the past 10 years, as I demanded from the local authorities of the Śląskie voivodship? Do you know that the officials - I refer to the case of Rabka, who is too well known to me - have considered four boarding houses unnecessary for statutory activities? Doesn't the way in which public assets are taken over in the form of sanatoriums resemble the way in which other people's assets are taken over by means of deliberate debt and neglect? High Izbo! This is a very important subject, very socially sensitive and on behalf of the Law and Justice, which has been included in the Master Programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to express my concern and ask you to look at this area in a competent manner, and above all to make sure that this activity is tested and analysed, because unfortunately, in this area things are going wrong. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u95	Thank you, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Piotr Warczyński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Spa treatment is one of the many areas of health care that are included in health care baskets, and in addition to primary health care, specialised care or hospital, psychiatric, long-term care, palliative and hospice care or medical rescue is one of the areas that make up the whole of our healthcare system. The National Health Fund allocates about 1% to spa medicine the value of the fund's entire financial plan. About 400,000 benefited from this type of treatment last year. insured. It should be noted that people who benefit from health care are mainly people with chronic diseases such as cardiovascular, orthopaedic, rheumatological or neurological diseases. And this is the main area of activity of spa medicine, which in fact is a rehabilitation treatment implemented under special conditions that satisfy the spa. More than 200,000 have been contracted for this year. personal outpatient treatment days, except that it should be noted that in two more areas, there will be competition proceedings in two branches, because contracts end there. The National Health Fund's financial plans for the next year allocate 60, more than 68 million, exactly 68,633,000. zł. Last year there was 67 million in health care, in 2014, 62 million, so we see that we have relatively slow, but nevertheless an increase in funding for health care and that this biggest noticeable leap, for years anyway, i.e. A 4.3% jump this year. As regards waiting times, here we do not have much to boast about, because the longest waiting time occurs in the area of health care services for adults and depending on the voivodeship department is from 18 to 28 months, except that it is in the case of sanatorium treatment, while in the case of a health hospital this period is also not satisfactory, because it is from 6 to 12 months. However, it should be noted that practically with regard to child benefits, this waiting time is zero. Children are admitted to health resorts on an ongoing basis. In fact, it should be pointed out that despite this funding, despite the increase in funding for health care regardless of the number of benefits contracted, the implementation of these benefits is incomplete. Monitoring this phenomenon indicates that mostly they have an impact on it - an ugly word, but yet it is used - so-called. no-shows, which are repeated each year, are actually independent of this system and of course have a very large impact on the low level, on the insufficient level of implementation of these benefits. This is revealed by the fact that the interest in this medicine, which is understandable on the one hand, is the greatest in summer periods, especially during holiday periods, although spa medicine is a year-round treatment that operates throughout the year. This is confirmed by the resignation from the winter and late autumn tournaments, where sometimes there are dozens of percent of those benefits. It is also important for economic considerations, which simply stems from the principle that in health care, additional costs are incurred in health care. Poland has 46 statutory health resorts, i.e. those that have undergone the whole formal process of inclusion first into the area of health care, and then into the spa area and the possibility of providing services in the field of health care. They are located in 13 voivodships. Most, because as many as 12, is located in the Dolnośląskie voivodship, 8 - in the Małopolska voivodship and the rest in the other voivodships. We also have three areas with the status of spa protection areas. Now the next three areas, I hope, will receive these powers, because we are directing them to the Committee of the Council of Ministers in the near future. The health care activities are carried out by 61 spa hospitals, 208 sanatoria, and the total bed base is in the sanatoriums of 31 thousand. beds, and in spa hospitals - 11 thousand. The owners of sanatoriums and spa hospitals are currently mostly private individuals. 26 former state-owned spa companies were transformed into State Treasury companies and later partially handed over to heirs on the basis of judgments of courts and privatized. 17 spas belong to this group. They've also been comunalized. There are seven spas in this group. Two companies still function as companies of the State Treasury: in Krynica-Zdroj and Rabka-Zdroj. However, it must be borne in mind that health care activities in health resorts are also carried out by health establishments, trade unions, hospitals and sanatoria, e.g. Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration or KRUS. Spa hospitals, spa sanatoriums provide benefits to both adults and children, and it should be noted that in the case of children and young people, if the sanatorium provides these benefits, it is obliged to ensure, in accordance with the provisions of the Education Act, that the school obligation is fulfilled. That's a condition. purchase of a contract from the National Health Fund. These benefits shall be provided on the basis of the referral of the health insurance physician to health care and additionally obtain a certificate of non-contraindication to the use of the type of health insurance. It should be noted that staying in all spa hospitals, both for children and adults, is free of charge, while as for the spa sanatorium, the patient bears the cost of travel and partial payment for meals and accommodation. What are the actions planned? It is right for the Member to draw attention to the quite complicated procedure of referral to the spa. Without a doubt it is very burdensome, also for the patient, it seems to contain many unnecessary official thresholds, and I think this is a change that needs to be made. This change requires a revision of the Spa Act, and here we have to consider whether this area of revision of the Spa Act should not be much wider than in this respect alone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm saying this because it takes some work. As you know, certain priorities in the Ministry of Health are being implemented and therefore these work will certainly be undertaken, but after completion of those that are currently being carried out. This is one thing that should no doubt be changed. I would also like to remind you that such areas, or actually control tools, exist, and since you are signaling that they are ineffective, this should simply be recalled. The voivodeships are competent for this control, because I remind you that they are calling chief health doctors who directly control these spas, most often being doctors from a given region or even from a given spa, should be best aware of these issues. We will allow ourselves to remind the voivods of this in order to increase the supervision of health resorts, and of course the main controller should be the National Health Fund, which should control the implementation of all benefits, but also what is included in the benefit law, take care of the quality of benefits, including the quality of health benefits. Not prolonging, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Are there anyone else willing? I'd like you to sign up here at the office. I therefore close the list of speakers. I'm setting time for questioning -- two minutes. I'm opening a discussion. The first question will be asked by Mrs Anna Paluch. There is no Member. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Mark Hok.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I was hoping that those questions you had put would actually open a discussion on health care. I hope, Minister, that this number of sixty million for a spa destination was a mistake. 600 million a year, several times the Minister was polite to lower it a bit. If that were the case, it would be a tragedy and we could bury it. I may have this advantage that I am a doctor and worked in a spa, in the largest Spa of Kołobrzeg, I know perfectly well the problem of okobrzeg spas and generally spas in Poland. I was hoping that these questions would provoke the Ministry and the Ministry to show what are the directions of changes in health care, because it really requires a lot of changes. Personally, I think that the direction of change should be to use this truly excellent hardware base, medically, human, to rehabilitate patients as soon as possible. If we can talk about some directions where we should be going, I think it should be early post-hospital rehabilitation - neurological, orthopedic, cardiological, and even oncology rehabilitation. If today the patient is waiting to be sent to the sanatorium for health care for at least 18 months - because these are the records in the health fund - then the changes resulting from the disease, let's say, neurological are already irreversible. If such a patient were to be treated directly after hospital orthopaedic treatment, neurologically, to a rehabilitation ward of a good spa, he could recover within a few months without taking benefits, from a pension, from medical care. And I think that's the direction we should be talking about. We are also well aware - and I think that you also - that some treat spa treatment, especially in attractive towns, as an additional supplement to holiday treatment, and this also causes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought this line was getting longer. There are people who - you know too - for many, many years have been enjoying an additional holiday in great sanatorial conditions, and that is what we should pay attention to, but above all to these systemic changes, because I believe that the profile of health care has not changed for 40 and 50 years.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u100	Minister, I would ask that we discuss the future of health resorts in this direction, because all that the Minister has said is of course known to all of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u101	Thank you, sir. And please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yes, it is a very important subject, a very important area, but before I go to the questions and formulate them, I would like to invite you to a spa which, after changing its owner in 2013, operates, invests, develops, increases the base, executes plans, assumptions, extends its offer. It is Busko-Zdrój - a spa which local government, which as local government We took over in 2013. Information only: 25 600 adult patients last year, 1869 children, of which 17.5 thousand. it has benefited from the financing of the NFZ. Children are in the orthopedic and rehabilitation ward. The local government invested PLN 30 million, the base increased by 250 beds, the availability improved. I'm gonna go to the question, and I'm gonna draw it up. Minister, in view of the fact that further investments are planned for around 30 million, will the Steering Committee at the Minister of Health be able to give an opinion this year so that specific tasks can be financed from the regional operational programme? And line two. Through the association, the spa submitted a request to the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification to raise the rate for 1 day of the child's stay from 80 PLN to 100 PLN. Would it be real and possible? Maybe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it possible to include these services or procedures in the spa? This could also help finance these activities. All I'm gonna say is that there's been a medical cluster and medical tourism...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u103	Mr President, the time has just passed, so that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u104	...and it will also develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u105	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Krystyna Wróblewska. You don't have an MP? In that case, I would ask Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Current information usually deals with issues that either cause problems that we want to solve quickly enough with new ideas or something that happens ad hoc. I'll be honest with you, I don't know why we're talking about this today. The subject is actually called alternately. After all, the Minister has made it clear that this is not a priority for the government and that the only issue that will be dealt with in the near future is the change of referral to the sanatorium. So this kind of conversation here in the plenary room seems a little over the top. On the other hand, with regard to the issues raised in these questions, I would like to address the question of whether pensioners should use them properly and in large numbers when using sanatoriums. Ladies and gentlemen, please bear in mind that we are in such a demographic phenomenon that these people, getting older and more and more, thanks to God, living, will become more and more. I actually spas and sanatoriums must be targeted at the elderly, because those who work and who benefit, when it comes to returning to work and to work, will be able to enjoy the various types of rehabilitation tournaments that are organized by the ZUS. And these are completely different benefits. However, we will undoubtedly have a very large debate on how to manage, exploit the possibilities of the spa, and improve the efficiency of these spas, so that they become really places, rehabilitation facilities and really recover, especially after chronic diseases. That is why I think, Minister, that such a debate [[♪ The bell ♪]] Waiting for us, but not in this way and not so constructed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u107	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzyk. [[Kasprzak.]] Kasprzak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u108	All right, Marshal. Thank you very much, Marshal. Including this discussion: here actually in recent years, in recent years, perhaps not even the last, but in several years the sanatoria has undergone many transformations, many changes. If we remember their earlier role, the rules of providing sanatorium services, it looked completely different. Here the Minister mentioned the creation of companies of the Treasury, and later the State Treasury wanted to dispose of it in some way, perhaps in this good faith, to give to someone the provision of these services. One of the elements was to transfer it to local governments, i.e. communalization. From what the Minister has said, I think 17 units have gone into this form. Indeed, in Podkarpacie we have two such spas: Rymanów-Zdrój and Horyniec-Zdrój, which were taken over by the marshal because we wanted to maintain this condition, the direction of healing which has been recognized there for many years. And today you can see that many marshals, at our place, in Podkarpacie also, finance and support the modernization, the equipment of these spas. I have a specific question. Did the Ministry notice changes in the provision of services, quality, this standard of provision of these services in a situation when self-government sanatoriums were created, when local governments, regional governments actively joined in? Because there was so much interest in the county in me that the county could take over, but it was supposed to be impossible. Thus, it is the standard of provision of services and interest and whether it actually functions in the case of supervision, so to speak, the regional marshals of spas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u109	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Murdzk. There's no envoy, either. Then the question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sanatoria, especially children's facilities, is an extremely important issue. I believe that it is not enough to set up the control system mentioned by the Members of the applicant here. Specific programmes, financial and substantive support, as well as relaxation of health resort rules should follow the controls, e.g. noise or air pollution standards. No European state has as strict health regulations as Poland - therefore, whether the Minister of Health plans to change the health bill, and if so, to what extent. I just wanted to ask you one more question. The town of Sól in the municipality of Rajcza, the zywiecki district, has been wanting to join a group of spas in Poland for many years. The medicinal brine deposits there are our national interests, which are still unused. The municipality of Rajcza is a small municipality, a rural municipality and cannot afford to carry out research, drilling, projects, the whole procedure related to obtaining the status of a spa or the search for investors. Is it possible to create a legal framework to guarantee state support for such investments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u111	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u112	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Polish spas are a wealth of natural goods, raw materials and medicinal resources, which have been subjected to significant privatisation over the past years. Spa treatment is an important and specific provision that supports and accelerates the treatment process and the recovery of the sick and at the same time social and professional activity. Contrary to appearances, the cost of this type of treatment is not high, because the financial expenditure on the provision of spa treatment has not exceeded 1% for several years. the National Health Fund's financial plans and are systematically reduced. But the result of such actions must be nothing more than the degradation of this type of medicine, as well as existing natural resources, which, in my view, should cause concern, given the expected increase in the population of older people in the coming years. I would therefore like to ask: What is the future of this significant area of health care, which is spa medicine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u113	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Elżbieta Gelert.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In fact, it's a good thing that at least this discussion about spas started. I would have a question for the Minister here, if we are already discussing spas: What is the ministry's policy towards spas? Are we going to develop spas, or are we going to develop hospital rehabilitation or sanatorium rehabilitation? Because I think that's more what we're after than the development of spas. But I'm sure the ministry has its own view here, and it certainly has a lot of time ahead of it, but we'd like to know where it's going. My next question is: Are there plans to increase finance in the National Fund for Spa Treatment? At the moment, 1% is being said, so it's certainly not too much, but it also raises this first question, in which direction the ministry's policy towards health care goes. I would also like to ask you a question because the Minister spoke about monitoring services: Is the effectiveness of spa treatment actually monitored? Next question: What new areas were the Minister talking about, what new spa areas, which towns? You said there are three towns at the moment that are likely to become a spa. If you could be more specific, for example. Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship and several localities from this voivodship are also seeking recognition of these areas as spa areas. I would just like to point out here that yes, in the West, maybe these spas are not as developed as you just said, but mainly rehabilitation hospitals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] or sanatorium rehabilitation hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u115	Thank you, Member. I would like to ask Catherine Chechara a question. There is no Member. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I know most of the Polish spas, because as the president of the city in which the spa is located, I worked in the Association of Spa Municipalities, where we took up many important topics for spas. And I would like to say that I absolutely disagree with the fact that there is a degradation of resources. On the contrary, spas, but also spas communities, as we forget here, create, take a lot of action to make these conditions the best possible, so that resources can be used to a greater extent. After all, spa communities manage the areas in which spas are located, and these areas require special treatment. Measures such as noise reduction, air quality improvement, where, despite the very high level of commitment, there are still problems in this area in some spas, but also actions to secure parking spaces, to prepare a cultural offer for the curates, are all actions by municipalities to support the health resorts in carrying out their activities. It is required by a spa operation and it is a condition that the city or area has the status of a spa. So that we can't completely forget about it. However, there is such a thing as restricting activity in the spa area, which problems are still addressed by local government. And I have a question for the Minister: Are you preparing or seeing the Minister's need to prepare legislation on amending the law? [[♪ The bell ♪]] about spa communities, spa treatments and spas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u117	Thank you, Member. I ask the floor of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Silesian Rehabilitation and Spa Centre in Rabka-Zdrój is one of the most famous children's sanatoriums in Poland. It is a facility that has existed for more than 80 years. Children who are treated in this sanatorium every year are dying. Why? Because the cost of maintaining 1 sanatorium place for a child is higher than the cost of a place for an adult mainly because the child being treated must have guaranteed access to education. That's the law, not the privilege of art. 71c, paragraph 71c. 2 of the Law of 7 September 1991 on the Education System and of the Decree of the Minister for National Education of 8 March 2013 on the organisation of education and the conditions and forms for the implementation of special care activities in kindergartens and special schools organised in medicinal entities and social assistance units. There are fewer and fewer places children suffering from chronic diseases can be treated. The consequences, ladies and gentlemen, may be catastrophic in the future. The host body limits the number of places in the children's sanatorium because the National Health Fund is signing fewer and fewer contracts with the institution. In turn, the National Health Fund explains that this is the result of a decreasing number of referrals issued by family doctors. While further institutions are relinquishing responsibility for the situation, the most important subject of the whole case, namely a child who has already been stabbed by fate in some way, disappears. Unfortunately, for many years the welfare of the youngest patients has been lost in confrontation with a civilized machine. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So my question is: Will the decreasing number of small patients be diagnosed? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Thank you. The question has already been asked.]] Thank you. Małgorzata Golińska, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u120	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We wanted today's discussion to show the situation of Polish health resorts, but above all those health resorts and hospitals, which deal with medicine especially of children. It has already been said in this Chamber that there are many problems in this sphere. Above all, in recent years we have seen a very worrying phenomenon of the liquidation of all or many institutions that deal with the treatment of children. The question is to the Minister: How do we stop this process? Because, on the example of my spa, the spa in Rabka, I can say that if there were 700 young people on tournaments in Rabka once again in the 1990s, today on average there are 150. There are months like January - for example this year - that it is only 30 young people, so the process of directing young people to treatment, the process of accounting for the costs of staying these children in sanatoriums, as well as in spa hospitals requires us to consider why this is happening, that we have so many so-called. the no-shows that the Minister was talking about here. Of course, the issue is complicated, from directing to travelling costs for these children, etc. Anyway, as far as this subject is concerned, we would be looking forward to finding a solution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will allow you to answer how to stop this process of eliminating the medicine of children. In this example, which I gave, you can see that this is a very big problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u121	Thank you. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u122	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Personally, I am very pleased with this debate today. I am a Member from Podkarpacie, a region famous for many spa towns: Rymanów, Iwonicz, Horyniec, Polańczyk-Zdrój or many smaller spas, so this subject is very close to me and it is important. But in my speech, I would like to draw attention to the health and health care of children and young people. In the last 2 years, in 2 terms as a Member, I have been the initiator of a general debate on the problem of a decreasing number of children using this form of treatment. In Rymanów, Rabka, Ciechocinek and Kołobrzeg, national conferences on the subject were held. Together with a group of Members, among others. here sitting Mark Hok and with the very large cooperation of Minister Mark Michalak, the spokesperson for the rights of the child, we have been interested in the problem of family doctors, pediatricians, balneologists and departments of the National Health Fund. We have undertaken more or less effective interventions in many resorts and institutions. I would also like to make it clear that, due to the decreasing number of young residents, schools and educational establishments operating in sanatoriums and spas have huge problems. In fact, this problem was caused by the first schools to operate at spa sites. Fortunately, thanks to these actions and the favor of the health department, we have managed to slow this process down slightly. I am aware of the complexity of this problem, because it is about the lack of referrals, the preferences of parents about the duration and place of the tournament, further, the big costs for parents, mentioned so-called. no-shows than demographics or insufficient information flow. On the other hand, however, we cannot just stand by and look passively at the situation of worrying data on new diseases and civilizational diseases affecting young people. Given the short speaking time today, I'll be addressing you in the next few days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister for the extensive interpellation in this matter, already today appealing and hoping for the favour and kindness of the Ministry in this case. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u123	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Pieta, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask if the Ministry is planning to provide assistance to those local governments who have the competence to run health resorts. I am asking here about a specific case, about a spa in Goczalkowice-Zdrój. I recall that last year and earlier attempts were made to privatize, sell this spa. I am convinced that this would be to the detriment of the people who benefit from the services of the spa. I know that it was then being prepared to turn this institution into a company of commercial law. It could lead directly to sales. I know that the workers were very concerned, the whole environment. I would like to know if the Ministry is planning to take an interest in the situation of health resorts run by regional governments. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u125	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u126	Thank you, Marshal. I have a question for the Minister, since a question has been asked by Members of the Law and Justice about health resorts. There is a big debate in the environment on the basket of benefits. Therefore: Minister said that with the money that is in the National Health Fund, 1% is intended for sanatorium treatment. By building this basket... First of all, I want to ask you at what stage is the basket issue, how in this basket will the benefits of spa services be, how much and to what extent you are trying to supervise the issue of post-hospital health care, including rehabilitation periodic benefits. That's one thing. The second issue is the issue of the level of contracts for health resorts and in this respect the contract for health care for children and adults. Third case. We talk about the fact that three weeks of health care is for people who are active at work, sometimes there is a long benefit. I understand the medical indication, 3 weeks is the optimal period. But this period of benefits lasts for a long time. Has the health department been investigating whether there's a chance... Or what will the spa treatment be like within 2 weeks and within 3 weeks? This is a thing that is extremely important for the current labour market, for the professional activity of young people who need, among others. use this form of treatment. During which period it is expected to provide information on the basket [[♪ The bell ♪]] and how will the spa benefits be implemented in this basket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u127	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question as to whether there is any form of central control over sanatoriums, both private and self-government care. I'll give you an example from my voivodship. The only sanatorium for children that dealt with the treatment of respiratory diseases was extinguished by the decision of the local government of Opole Voivodship. His business was terminated, and for the time being, this facility was intended for sale. I must point out here that the amount that is set is very low, and it can be said outrageous. Does the Ministry intend to carry out checks on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u129	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Edward Siarka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u130	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, from this brief discussion that we have proposed today, we have come up with a picture that will, I think, really start with a broader discussion, Minister, and a reflection that is undoubtedly needed, from issues relating to the Spa Act to the issue of spatial planning, which in many places discourages localities that would be ready to carry out spa activities, to seeking the status of a spa. All these restrictions are a big problem for health resorts too today. That's one thing. The second issue is financial resources. It is clear that this issue requires reflection that we have years of negligence here, because if 1% we transfer to a spa activity, it is indeed a small amount. If you divide it between spa facilities, there are actually small amounts already in these contracts. At the same time, the process is that most health hospitals face financial problems, and generally health resorts run away from contracting benefits, rather trying to obtain full-paid customers, creating, say, conditions that would be acceptable to them. It is very disturbing, however, to leave the treatment of children. How do we stop this process? From this discussion it is clear that something must be done so that there is no such situation that further facilities for children are being closed down. In order to encourage the treatment of children, there must also be a regulated issue of schools at sanatoriums. This is the biggest problem today, because spas or hospitals treat the school as a burden on the company. We still have problems with babysitting, what a nurse should do, what a teacher should do, what their responsibilities are. It seems to be regulated, but there are problems on the cost side all the time. I think we've started a discussion on this. I'm gonna have to ask my friend to do a little summation here. I hope that we will continue on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u131	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the discussion in the Sejm on the subject of sanatoria. The subject is not a substitute, it is not a coincidence, because on February 5th, an article on institutions in the Silesian Voivodeship, spa centers was published in the Health Market. Well, the voivodship board is preparing to privatize the units which, in the previous term of the Silesian Sejm, I defended together with the Law and Justice, so as not to privatize them, because, as I said at the outset, this is contrary to the constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must now make every effort to ensure that those who are still in the hands of local governments remain in them to improve their actions and that what was wrong is explained. You might even be tempted to verify by CBA, because I raised a lot of issues in seymical interpellations, so that you can get acquainted with all the material, and about irregularities that are in Silesian institutions, my interpellations can be read. I think this is the right direction. I am very pleased that we can work together here with the Minister. I hope that these youngest patients, who should be given special care by the state in these difficult health situations, will be supported, health resorts will develop, and that people who are of working age will also be able to use treatments in some way. And our dear seniors should support these institutions, make sure they can live decently at that age in the fall of life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u133	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Piotr Warczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to thank you very much, because it was indeed a discussion, a debate. Questions are relatively few, so I would like to start with some general terms. As far as spa medicine is concerned, Poland is probably the only country, certainly in Europe, I do not know how in the world, which finances this type of medicine at all. Everything we say about health resorts in other countries being funded... No, they're not funded. There, mostly in cities that used to be spas, and they got this status... Now in other countries, there are no procedures that make some areas of health care, then spas, and then spa treatment. So we have a unique system. I move slowly to answer questions, among others. Mr Hok, about what the future of health care should be like. I agree that it should be focused primarily on rehabilitation. In addition, the term spa rehabilitation already operates in the law, in the spa law and it is implemented, except that we must maintain a certain balance. Of course, spa rehabilitation should be focused on quick rehabilitation, e.g. cardiological or orthopedic, because this is the most effective for the patient's health and the most effective, which is at the same time cost-effective, for the system. The patient returns to work faster, starts paying taxes, the state on this, on this investment gains, so no doubt this direction is right. But we must not forget those areas that are also related to rehabilitation, but to the rehabilitation of older people who require it periodically, every once in a while. Of course, all of this needs to be balanced, balanced, common sense, so that it develops in the right direction. It's an extremely important area, which is actually at the moment... I don't have any prescription or medicine here. I'm talking about the area of health care for children. In fact, there was a time when he died. At the moment, it's kind of stopped, but still these failings in spa medicine go up to a few percent. Last year it improved because the performance of the contracts was 92% , thus 8% it hasn't been realized. The entities had to return that money. Last year, on the other hand, has already been a little optimistic, because the implementation is 99.3%. So, as you can see, this downward trend is decreasing. What are the reasons for this? This is certainly not clear, and one sentence as an answer is not enough. I'm sure we're in a demographic slum, and we've got a drop in fertility. Certainly, and this also needs to be increased, health indicators in Poland also increase among children and young people despite appearances, so the indications to direct to spa treatment is relatively less. Of course, we have such new problems among children and young people as obesity. However, they are not very within the limits of health care, but I think it would be possible to open such a discussion and to rephrase the range of services that will offer health resorts in the future. Already answering some of the questions, I confirm, yes, it is indeed planned to amend the entire spa law, among others. in terms of how to verify and direct to spa treatment. That too, for example. when it comes to children, it is extremely important because this mode seems a little too much, as I have already signaled, expanded. Perhaps you would have to think of a normal driving mode, such as in other areas of medicine, such as. directing you to a hospital or to take outpatient care, although you must be very, very careful with all this, so that you do not spoil something and do not cause e.g. that the queues for health care will increase significantly. I also think that such an action, which will quite significantly organize this area, as well as all other areas of medicine in our country, is appropriate assessment, tarnification of benefits in spas, also valuation of these benefits, to which, as you know perfectly well, at the moment is dedicated to the Agency for Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. It is no longer the National Health Fund, and even more so the Minister of Health, but the objective agency that makes such tariffs. About as urgent as paediatric medicine, long-term care or palliative-hospital medicine has already done so. The agency has a plan of tariffs every year, and it can't do everything at the same time. It's probably gonna take about two or three years. However, spa medicine is also on this list, so it will be time for these benefits to be evaluated in this respect too. In conclusion - because there was a voice here too, that we have a drop in funding for spa medicine - we can say that perhaps this medicine is underfunded, but in that case, with a certain amount of money, we need to ask where to get and move this money to increase the spa pool so that it is a significant increase. However, the reality is that we still have an increase in funding for health care. Like I said, it's probably too small, but this growth is. And last year, and this year it's about 4.3%. Compared to 0.12% Last year, this seems to be a significant increase and should be seen by health professionals in the field of health care. Here... [[Voice from the hall: New spas.]] New spas, of course, yes. Indeed. I've got it listed here, I just need to find it. These are three areas of spa protection. It is Milomalyn, Lidzbark Warmiński and Black Dunajec. These are the current areas. Someone else asked, one of the gentlemen, whether a certain area could become a spa area and then a spa area. Of course, yes, only a request must be made, requirements must be met, certain procedures must be carried out. All applications shall be accepted and objectively evaluated. It is not enough that spa workers simply drive and help to prepare such areas so that they can become a spa so that they can apply for the status of a spa protection area and then a spa area. I don't know if you'd like to ask any more questions. If not, thank you very much for today's discussion. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We hear many disturbing signals about uncontrolled privatisation of sanatoriums, whose owners are local governments of voivodships. But in addition to the privatisation of the property, which is controversial, there is a privatisation of services and the transfer of them to the private operator on the basis of local government assets, which is leased to it. The amounts for which it is leased are very low and cause a lot of concern, as they differ significantly from those currently in force in the area concerned. An example is the method of leasing, among others. the property of the sanatorium in Małopolska. The Audit Committee of the Małopolska Voivodeship Sejmik examined the lease agreement of the above mentioned. the entity and took many doubts about the terms of the lease recorded in the contract. She requested the Management Board of Małopolska Voivodship to take action to implement the rate of this lease. In reply, she received information that the agreement did not provide for the renegotiation of the price. Is it possible to take action to prevent such practices, possibly to change the rules for the use of private operators in local government assets?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u137	Dear Minister, In the municipality of Dębica in Podkarpacie there was the Zakład Zdrojowo-Kamielowy, which was destroyed during World War I. In 1932, the Summershin plant was reactivated because it was highly effective in the treatment of various diseases, among others. rheumatic diseases, nervous system diseases, metabolism, skin and other diseases. As a result of the war, the Summer Bathrooms were destroyed and the shots of the source were flooded. Currently there is a legitimate need to rebuild the spa that existed before the war, but the cost of construction of a natural medicine plant in Satoszyn together with the hotel and gastronomy facilities, SPA and swimming pool is estimated at about PLN 50 million. Thus, local authorities are looking for opportunities to support investment among private investors, but they are also seeking the possibility of using external funds. Unfortunately, the Department of Structural Policy Coordination at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development of the previous government has provided me with information that the possibility of receiving financial support exists only for spas already in operation, not those that should be built practically from scratch or reactivated, as in the case of Latoszyn. Minister! Will the new government support the reactivation of spa sites once prosperous, destroyed by past wars, and what financial support will possible investors be able to benefit from?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u138	We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft law on State aid to raise children (prints No 216 and 238). I ask Mrs Beata Mazurek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on State aid to raise children contained in print No 238. The first reading of the project took place on 9 February 2016 at the 11th meeting of the Sejm. The Sejm pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft to the committee for consideration. On 9 February, the Social Policy and Family Committee examined the Government's draft law on State aid to raise children, print No 216, and adopted a report on it. The proposed law introduces new benefits, educational benefits into the legal system. This benefit will be granted to citizens of the Republic of Poland and to other persons who, under Community rules and international agreements, have been granted similar rights to those held by citizens in respect of social benefits. At the same time, the law conditiones, makes the right to provide educational services subject to residence in the territory of the Republic of Poland for the period during which the benefit is to be granted. Education for every entitled child will be entitled to 500 PLN per month. The benefit for the second and every subsequent child will be granted regardless of the income the family earns, while the benefit for the first child will be granted if the income of the family does not exceed 800 PLN per person in the family, and if the disabled child is in the family, the amount of 1200 PLN. The witness will continue until the child is 18 years old. The implementation of the educational benefit will be part of the commune. In the course of the examination of the project, the Commission adopted inter alia. an amendment assuming that the child is also a member of the family of both parents where, in accordance with the judgment of the court, the child remains in the custody of the two parents divorced, separated or separated. Another amendment sets out how to calculate the benefit for an incomplete month in the event of the child being cared for alternately between the two parents. Another amendment allows applications for payment of the benefit by electronic means through the electronic system provided by the Social Insurance Institution and by national banks providing electronic services. Another amendment assumes that the benefit will be shared when the child is born or is 18 years old during a given month. Another assumes that the Council of Ministers will be able to increase the amount of benefits and the criteria for entitlement to them. 15 minority proposals have been submitted concerning, inter alia, clarification of the title of the law, i.e. on State aid for raising certain children, granting a child's parental benefit of PLN 500 per month per child in the family irrespective of the income of the family, enabling parents to receive benefits for a younger child when they are over 18 years of age, introducing a zloty rule for gold in the case of persons slightly above the income thresholds entitlement to benefits for one child - if the income threshold was exceeded, the benefit would not be deducted but reduced by the amount by which the criterion was exceeded - non-compliance with the income criteria for single parents, the introduction of the upper income criterion - would not benefit if the income per person in the family exceeds PLN 2500 - the statement that the education proceedings are carried out by the Social Insurance Institution. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the most important amendments that were tabled to the government project during the committee's work. I encourage and ask the High House to adopt the attached report in print No 238. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u140	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u141	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the draft law on State aid to raise children, called Family 500+. High Izbo! The bill under review is the implementation of our electoral programme, the Law and Justice programme, the programme of good change. Thanks to the solutions contained in the proposed act, Polish families will receive universal, systemic support for the first time in history. The family of 500+ is a monthly payment of 500 PLN net for all children, from the second child to the next 18 years of age, and in the case of families whose income does not exceed 800 PLN net per person, or when a disabled child is raised in the family - then the income criterion will be 1200 PLN net - the educational benefit will be... Excuse me, the income criterion of PLN 1200 for a disabled child, then the educational benefit will also be granted for the first child. It should be pointed out that parents who are married but are not married, single parents, adoptive parents, or natural parents will receive a witness. The law will cover more than 2,700 thousand in 2016. families. Poland's demographic situation is indisputably difficult. A key moment was missed where childhood had to be actively supported. Today, women from the second demographic boom are entering such an age that this possibility of having children is becoming less and less. This means that the last largest group is no longer properly capable of having children. This is the last moment to accept the proposed solutions. The debate about demography took place yesterday. We know what the demographic situation of our country is, we know what the Law and Justice are proposing. Yesterday, until the hour. 22 was held by the Social Policy Committee. I think that we have already agreed on all the most important arguments, and today I recommend to the High House that solutions which in its electoral programme had Law and Justice, solutions which at this moment were best for Polish families, for the development of our country... Please accept this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I discuss the project that we are currently debating at second reading, I would ask the marshal to observe these agendas that we receive at the beginning of the Sejm. It is really complicated when we plan our presence here in the Seym, and suddenly it turns out that something is accelerating, something is delaying; we are to work until hours. 17, we work until the hour. Three in the morning. I ask that we respect each other's time, the time of 460 people working here, and I am not talking about service, because even the acceleration of today's agenda surprises us too. But back to the project. Ladies and gentlemen, with great criticism, I listen to all the stories about how for the first time the government of Law and Justice treats Polish families systematically. During the first reading, during the committee's deliberations, I repeatedly reminded you how much for family policy, including, of course, demographic policy, because this demographic indicator has increased, not much, but has increased, from 2,23, sorry - 2,3 this is our dream - from 1.23 to 1.27 - but this is the result of the long-term, non-active, planned actions of the predecessors. I advise every government to respectfully approach the achievements of those who also worked for the good of the Republic - and worked for 8 years. The fact that law and justice don't respect that is one thing, and whether or not they should, is another. In her first reading, the Minister recalled the words of Władysław Bartoszewski: It is worth being decent, although it does not pay off. It pays to be dirty, but it's not worth it. I think you're at the second stage. For now, you think it's worth it, but trust me, it's not worth it. It is worth appreciating the efforts of all for whom the Republic is something important, important, who, patriotically speaking, ruled according to their best models, ideas and tried to carry out various things as part of their financial opportunities. And they made a lot of money. They found 511 daycares, ended up at 2700. They found less than 40% of their children's pre-schooling, left about 90%. We support every mom coming back from the longest in Europe, because a year's parental leave. Fathers have a 2-year parental leave. We support every mother who gives birth to a child, $1,000. for 12 months. This year, children from primary school, secondary school and fourth primary school classes had free textbooks. In 2017, all children covered by the education obligation will have these manuals. You kept all these things in the 2016 budget, so you considered them good, in the sense of document and money. You must not exceed the threshold of praise for these actions of your predecessors. It seems that in the 500+ programme you have proposed, the great disadvantage is that not all children are covered by it in spite of the announcements from the election campaign. Contrary to the announcements. We have tried to improve this, the minority's proposals on this issue are complex: every child, the US, who handles the case much cheaper than local governments, without unnecessary bureaucracy, without determining whether or not someone meets the criteria for the first, second, third child, whether or not someone meets the criteria for income or not. These are absolutely unnecessary things if every child is embraced by this. Of course, all these requests have been rejected, and I will remind you that due to the savings associated with the administration of the programme itself, 340 million PLN can be saved, which means 56 thousand PLN. children with a yearly monthly allowance of PLN 500 per child. Is it not worth considering all these decisions? In fact, in the elections of October 25, warned about budgetary difficulties, our voters decided that they wanted to vote for this programme. They voted. Let's live up to what you promised them. We're helping. Knowing this - although we are still deluded - that you will not accept these solutions, we make a whole range of amendments that will extend the catalogue of children who will be covered by this service. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Single parents, first of all. Mr. Marshal, half a minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u144	No. There's no half a minute. Finish it, Member. [[There isn't?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u145	I can't hear your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u146	There's no half a minute. Go ahead. [[Voice from the room: Question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u147	I will, of course, make the appropriate amendments to this, but we want to cover the provision of single parents, disabled children, children from family-type institutions and exempt those who have been granted benefits on the basis of an incorrect official assessment from the interest they will have to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Every Polish child deserves this kind of benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, we did it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u148	Thank you, Member. Mr Richard Petru, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There's populism in this room. Everyone offers more and more, individual parties bid, who will give, who will promise Poles more, without saying what to finance it. Let's remember that when we say we give 23 billion, we have to take it away from someone. Now there are negotiations in the NAP, I understand, with traders, how to pay them a tax so that it hurts as little as possible. Let us also note - it is to the Minister and to the Minister - that the benefits have not increased in Europe. A completely new approach is needed, which will be comprehensive, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of existing programmes. Let me remind you: we've got benet, we've got family benefits, and now we've got 500 plus. They're all social programs, they don't have an investment element at all. Therefore, a very profound review of the programmes and a whole new approach are necessary. Why are children not born in Poland? Because parents don't feel safe. And it's not just about economic security, it's about the prospect that they can handle it. Therefore, we would like to present a whole new programme, which consists of safety for the family, support for the first apartment, to provide care for the child and to make sure that a woman on the labour market has a chance to find a job after she decides to be born and raise a child. The basic thing is housing support. Ladies and gentlemen, housing support is needed because Poles, especially young couples, often have nowhere to go. Instead of spending $23 billion on a child, instead of spending money on child relief, whether or not someone makes a lot of money, we offer a contribution of our own which would be for those who are born children, and then this own contribution would be simply a State-deprived. Thanks to this, young Poles, young families would have a chance to get their first apartment or possibly to rent. Depending on the number of children - the more children, the greater the amount of aid. Secondly, it is very important to reduce the pay gap between men and women. Today, women in the labour market are treated worse. Of course, this requires work and this will not happen immediately, but it is important to enforce the same salaries in the same positions for men and women, to increase the part of parental leave to be taken only by the father and to promote the possibility of joint parental leave - the first month after the birth of the child. The second element is nursery and kindergarten. Ladies and gentlemen, in many towns there are no nursery and kindergartens, they are too short open, there are districts in Warsaw and there are districts in big cities where children cannot be saved, and then it causes that a woman is unable to reconcile raising children with maintaining a job or looking for solutions that could allow her to maintain material status at the pre-baby level. We therefore appeal and propose solutions that would increase spending on nursery and kindergarten. These amounts are in the order of PLN 2.3 billion. They can be financed together with the idea of supporting apartments with a pro-family tax credit, which is in force at the moment. Let me remind you: we spend over PLN 6 billion a year on this. Another important thing you don't talk about and you don't raise it at all is the question of prosecuting those who don't pay alimony. This is very important because this is a risk factor for women who have babies. We therefore propose to abolish or clarify the provisions of the family code on persistent evasion of maintenance obligations and prosecution of maintenance debtors. It cannot be that alimony is considered irrelevant - it should be enforced as well as taxes. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I hear you screaming, but I can't hear you. Unless you scream for it here - then it'll be recorded and we'll know what you said. [[What do you mean? Speak Polish, please.]] Therefore, it is very important that the Polish family is safe, so that it has the prospect of living, the perspective of working, and not to focus only on the issue of benefits. You know very well that this is not a family-friendly program. You know very well that this is an election program. The point is, you have to fulfill your election promise this year, and you're not thinking about what's gonna happen in the years to come. See, today, you're talking to traders now, how to get them to pay their taxes. You pay the tax, people lose their jobs, and the question is, what are those people who lose their jobs out of 500 zlotys per child? They're gonna lose a lot more than they're gonna get from this program. This is our show. That is why we will vote in the final vote against the 500+ programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u150	Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u151	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Behind us in the Seym the first reading of the long-awaited program 500+. Before the election, PiS boasted a ready bill guaranteeing all parents 500 PLN per child. After the election, it turned out that the project was gone, but we had to prepare it. When he was born, it turned out that the families would get the money, but not for the first child. What's left of the pre-election promises, everyone will judge themselves. However, PSL does not delete the government project. We assume it's better than nothing. We also want a cross-party agreement on family policy built by the people in the previous term of office to be maintained. [[By the government.]] [[Mrs. Krystyna, by the folks only.]] PiS supported our projects - extension to the year of parental leave, 1000 PLN per child, so-called. The law on the Charter of the Large Family, the program of work for young people. It is all the more surprising today when PiS politicians claim that family policy has not yet been in place. What, then, did they vote for during the previous term of the Sejm? It is a pity that today they are afraid to admit who has laid the foundations for the country's new family policy. Without good changes prepared by PSL there would be no 500+ program. The PSL Club believes that an effective family policy should create better living conditions for Polish families. Therefore, PSL proposed amendments to the government project. I regret to say that yesterday our amendments were rejected in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We suggested there was no income threshold. We proposed to put in place a cash mechanism for the gold, the same mechanism that you supported in your previous term of office. We suggested that a single mother, a single father, be exempt from these low income thresholds. Unfortunately, you've got the majority, you've rejected everything, all of our proposals have been rejected. But now, ladies and gentlemen, you have a chance to change your missteps. Support the amendment: a zloty for a zloty, except that this mechanism would apply from 1 January 2017. Of course, we are in favour of the 500+ project, because the programme complements our previous actions, which we have taken, in terms of family policy, in the previous term. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that frightens me is the pace of this bill. I would like such laws to be spread over time so that we can discuss these laws in normal hours, not that they are being processed at a rapid pace. Thank you very much. Therefore, in the hands of the Marshal, I will pass on the amendments to the club of the Polish People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u152	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today I'm wearing a costume tailored to the requirements of the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiz15 again presents the concept of negative income tax, which is a revolutionary and substantive counterproposal for the 500+ programme. Instead of demoralizing people in the long term with benefits, we offer to stop taking money from them, which is hard to earn themselves. Zero administrative costs, progressive relief for children from the first child, we propose with preliminary calculations of 250 for each first child, 600 for the second and 700 for the third and the next. We have calculated the cost of our programme at 25 billion a year, that is not much more than what the Government of Law and Justice will pay, starting in 2017. We want the relief to be deducted first from the PIT tax, then - from the NFZ, then - from the ZUS and the Labour Fund contributions. And if there's no taxes, 75%. the missing amount will be paid to the family in the form of a cash benefit. But 75% , substitution rate 75% so that it continues to be profitable not to take benefits, but to seek employment, because having children and working activity, economic activity is the foundation of healthy family development and the foundation of family development in general. [[It's true.]] If we bet on benefits, on long-term demoralization, on fleeing into the grey zone, on preventing people from getting out of poverty, we will not improve the disastrous demographic situation in Poland, and that is what this is all about. What's the PiS gonna do if he launches his 500+ program and that baby you're assuming is going to grow, so that's the 280,000 you're going to be born. children additionally within 10 years, and childhood will rise to astronomical level 1.45? What are you gonna do if you lose your social security system completely in 10 years? You know what you're gonna do? Close all social programs, all pro-family programs, introduce draconian savings, and still Poland will fall. [[Oh, my God.]] Our solution has its own advantages. [[Ten years we're gonna be in charge.]] [[Or maybe longer.]] We reduce tax wedges, i.e. total taxation of work, we allow a radical reduction of unemployment among the poorest and least earners, we reduce the grey economy, because today many people are working in black because they cannot start their own business, or this activity is not profitable because of excessive taxation and labour contributions. We pull a lot of people out of social services, we give them the so-called. a fishing rod, not the so-called. the fish, unlike the PiS solutions, which perpetuate people's remaining poor, because it will make people wonder whether to take a job or to fit into the threshold when it comes to welfare. There's no need to hire an army of bureaucrats to account for who's entitled to that benefit, who's not. In our case, there's no need to hire anyone else. We raise the minimum wage if we eliminate the tax wedge by PLN 850, without having to increase the costs for employers. What you can't do, you and you, for over 10 years, we'll do with one move, raise the minimum wage to over 2,000. net zloty. [[Applause]] All single-person business activities will be able to be started practically without paying the ZUS, practically without paying in the first phase of the tax. What does that mean? This means the same effect of the liberation of the entrepreneurship of society as it was during the beginning of the Wilczek Act. That's exactly what we're talking about, but you're not. [[Applause]] We will finally improve the payability of alimony, because people who have income, who will have a job, will pay alimony, will not have to evade them. Your solution, even though it will help families, many families, not all families, will result in a long-term economic collapse and will lead to a demographic collapse. You will not improve the catastrophic demographic situation by increasing your childhood by 280 thousand. children within 10 years. The changes must be radical, they must profoundly change the economic structure, and not just cover what is at the moment a layer of financial benefit, because this is not the way. The system needs to be changed in depth, not covered, as I said, with a financial layer. And for this solution, where we have $850,000. effort on the child, new child, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And 350,000. potential income, we just can't afford it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u154	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to refer in a few words to the comments made by the clubs. As far as Mrs Kochan and the Civic Platform Club are concerned, of course, yesterday we heard, perhaps, in 40 or 50 questions, still the same story about the fact that we should pay these benefits to the first child without an income criterion. Let me remind you that it is not true that a single mother is discriminated against, it is not true that we are not paying money for the first child. It is exactly the same in families and single mothers: the benefit for the first child is paid after the income criterion of 800 PLN net per person, if the family is disabled - 1200 PLN net per person. [[White is black and black is white, Minister? Right...]] And let's remember what I was talking about here yesterday, too, from that platform. [[But appreciate our intelligence, please.]] The introduction of this solution, which you are demanding, would cost in 2017, i.e. when this programme will be in operation all year round, PLN 19.5 billion, i.e. twice the programme. And I don't really want to accuse you of bad will here, but if you're still making this kind of amendment, it seems like you're just trying to turn it over. [[We want it to be real.]] Because you know very well that it would be very difficult to finance such expenditure in 2017. [[Game in the O.R.]] If you weren't screaming, if you'd let me tell you, that would be good. [[You must tell the truth, sir.]] On the other hand, as regards these two amendments, which Mrs Kochan and I were also working with yesterday, I can declare that, indeed, both this amendment related to the extension of this benefit in family-type establishments and the one related to the exemption from the percentage of those who do not receive benefits because of their own fault and who are to return them later, we will report these changes. With regard to Modern and Richard Petru's comments, of course, this is the first point: we are not talking about the fact that 500 PLN per child is the end of our demographic programme. Neither do we reverse the changes that are happening at the moment, i.e. announced programme - PLN 151 million, already 7% children in kindergarten care. I will remind you that in 2017 all municipalities must accept three-year-olds or 3-year-olds, they are obliged to accept them for kindergarten. We're not going to reverse these projects here. We also try to solve housing issues. I am surprised, however, that as a modern state, you are proposing at least two anti-freedom solutions. One thing: as I understand it, you want to eliminate the tax relief on children. That's reason. It's strange, because relief from children makes people more active and the state kind of appreciates the difficulty of raising a child because it doesn't overtax these children. Therefore, in our proposal on the occasion of 500+ there is no question of eliminating child relief at all. Poland was until 2007, when relief for children was introduced, in such a rather curious situation that it was the only OECD country that did not see the difficulty of raising children in the tax system. I would like to remind you that it was only the Law and Justice Government that, in 2006, decided that child relief had been introduced. So that it's for me... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I raised twice in the previous term.]] And raised, and progressed in the previous term, agreed. This is from the third child up 1700 and the fourth 2700 PLN. That's why I'm amazed at this anti-freedom rhetoric. [[There's no money.]] The same anti-freedom rhetoric is forcing your parents here, that you know better whether your mom wants to take parental leave or your dad's. I don't get it at all. [[Applause]] If there is a solution at the moment in which parental leave lasts for a year, parents can decide for themselves whether or not their mother will benefit from their decision here. I will remind you that these are often economic decisions, because if we follow your anti-freedom solution, that is to say: we, the officials, know better, the mother is to benefit from 8 months, and Father 4, it is paid at a lower rate during the period of payment of this benefit, because men usually earn a little more. Hence, there may be a situation where parents will not benefit at all. That's why I don't fully understand this anti-freedom rhetoric. As far as the non-payment of alimony is concerned, I would like to explain here that if they receive benefits from the maintenance fund, they are already being prosecuted, Mr. Richard, of the public office. If they're getting benefits from the maintenance fund, they're already wanted by the state. Of course, here, going to the reservations of the club PSL, I would like to always be so that such a program, which is supposed to transfer 23 billion PLN to families in 2017, call nothing. That's what Mr. Krystian Jarubas used: it's better than nothing. I wish I always had such a problem that it was nothing. [[Applause]] because this is really a program that is actually quite impressive. It is really nice that Mr Jarubas says that it will improve the living conditions of Polish families, because it will indeed be. This program is simply in an unusual way... I will remind you of what Minister Rafalska said yesterday. According to our calculations, the risk of relative poverty among children between 0 and 17 years of age decreases from 23 to 11%. Never after 1989 did anyone have such a program that would radically reduce the poverty of the youngest... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: What about the principle: a zloty for a zloty?]] The program, which would radically reduce the poverty of the youngest, was not there. As far as your proposals are concerned, which is both this one: zloty for zloty and this one: single people exempt from income criteria, in the case of zloty for zloty - as I said yesterday, you know about it - these are additional costs in this project, over PLN 2 billion. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But since the new year.]] In addition, of course, the administrative issue, the issue of handling it by municipalities, i.e. additional costs. Let us also remember that this income threshold of 800 PLN is set at a fairly high level, hence this guillotine, this cutting from the labour market in this way here is not going to work as well as other benefits that are at a lower level. Mr. Rafał Wójcikowski says the program will consolidate poverty. If someone says that a program that will break children out of poverty will perpetuate poverty, it doesn't sound very credible. I'll remind you what Minister Rafalska said yesterday. In fact, this program has three main tasks. The first task is growth. Childhood, second task - investment in human capital. It's just an investment in people, especially young people, so they're better educated so they can go to the dentist to go to the colonies. It's also a reduction in poverty. Besides this fourth target... We must remember that we are competing for people with the countries of the European Union. All you have to do is go to Germany to receive EUR 188 for the first child and more for the second, third and subsequent children respectively. The economic crash. Mr President, I would like to remind you that the public finance sector in Poland is divided by ca. 42% our GDP, i.e. in 2017 it will be over PLN 840 billion. If we look at this program that it would bring economic failure, let us note that even if this programme costs 23 billion, it is probably worth it, and for the first time after 1989, finally finding this money for the young generation. For a young generation to appreciate. This is money primarily for young families who raise children. After 1989, there was never such a program that young people would say so clearly and simply: we appreciate the fact that you are here, we appreciate it... [[I wonder if it'll work.]] ...that you are at the Vistula and that you want to build your future here. We have to do something about it, because as we can see, young people... [[Work, work, not benefits.]] They vote with their legs and leave. According to the GUS data, these in-depth analyses show that 11% of the people from the 1976-1984 year-olds left. We must draw attention to the fact that at this point we are also competing for these young people. We're competing. It's not quotes anymore, it's just physically competing... [[We want jobs, not benefits.]] ...with the countries of the European Union, and there is nothing more valuable than people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u156	Thank you. Mr. Richard Petru in correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u157	Thank you very much. Minister! I would like to explain that, unlike the Law and Justice, we are presenting a programme that is rational and has funding. That's why I showed you that you can finance a program of financial support for apartments and construction of nursery and kindergartens with tax relief. You are proposing a programme which is unfunded, and in total the social policy of the state for children will be PLN 30 billion. We still have not received a reply from the State as to whether this law is compatible with the Public Finance Act. Let me remind you, this law only has funding for a year, and it should be funding for 10 years. I would expect the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Minister of Finance to show what this programme will be financed in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, you promise Poles. I don't know if you're planning an election, maybe like Jarosław Kaczyński did before, next year, because you have nothing to finance it with. Then you'll say it's the opposition's fault that it's unrealized. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] Minister, there's a request to show the sources... [[Demagogue.]] ...profits for future years for this program, because in my opinion it is, and we all know it, unfunded. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We don't know anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u158	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u159	Minister! We know very well that this money will go to young people first of all, but our proposal will go to young people all the more because they don't have a job because they can't start a business because taxes are smothering them. We know that very well, but, Minister, the question is different. The question is, what are you going to do in 10 years' time when your policy will only lead to an increase in children to a level of 1.45, the replacement of generations will be completely shaken and we will become a generation of people, a community of old people? What are you gonna do? Because you don't solve it. Because this is a fundamental problem that needs to be solved, not that families are poor. It's poor. As economic growth increases, they will be better off, but the demographic problem needs to be resolved immediately, and this project, which you are presenting, does not solve the issue of demography. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u160	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Please don't exceed the time. Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has a voice. [[There isn't.]] There isn't. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We Members are asked a number of questions about the Polish environment from outside Europe. They ask if and under what rules they will be covered by the 500+ programme, and if not, why. Is that another discrimination? Well, Poles living, for example. The United States has nothing to dream about the 500+ programme, the obstacle is the lack of record of educational benefits in the agreement between Poland and the United States. Only the countries of the European Union have signed appropriate agreements with Poland on close coordination of benefits. I would therefore like to ask: Will there be a change in the Polish-American social security agreement? Will such an amendment be carried out? I would also like to ask: Will there be a guide, some leaflet, any form of information campaign, how to apply for money [[♪ The bell ♪]] for children, intended for Poles living outside our country, who will be entitled to this benefit? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u162	Thank you. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The absent Prime Minister! Abandoned Messengers, Members, Knights of Good Change! [[Voices from the room: We're here.]] Using the waking up of my... [[Why are you insulting us?]] Is a knight an insult? A compliment. [[We're here. We're listening to you.]] Using doubts... [[Where's Neumann?]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, I would ask that I use my time without interruptions. [[Voice from the courtroom: Since the president is provoking, we answer. We've got to get ready early.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u164	Good. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u165	Using the emotional doubts, which means every child, I wanted to ask what a good change really means, which your voters voted for, and whether they know it. I'm asking because I have reason to believe it's not a good thing and not a change, it's a total revolution, and it's not real, but it's semantic. And that's your fraud because that's not what your constituents were expecting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The revolution that in place of the mine's liquidation silences them, the layoffs... [[Because of you.]] ...the group calls the Polish mining group, and every child in this semantics is the second child, and the second is not the second, if the first one grows up to 18 years old, that is, each one is every one, and mine is mine according to you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u166	Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Despite the long discussion in which I participated, and many arguments explaining the principle of not receiving a witness by every child, I cannot agree with it, because all the time you talked about a civilization project, and in this form it is even difficult to determine whether it is a social project. You were supposed to show a complete change, a good change in the state's approach to having children, but such programs must be based on the iron principle that everyone receives such support on identical principles. Too bad you didn't take the example of your Hungarian friends. Why did you forget the middle class and skip it part on this show? Did you punish them for being active and wanting to pursue themselves professionally? Will you finally understand how important the middle class is for the good, for the functioning of the state, so we must support its development and not ignore it with all our strength. Prime Minister Orbán understood that, and President Kaczyński did not. It's a pity Orbán didn't convince you of such a solution. [[Applause]] [[Green Sheep.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u168	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The good news from yesterday's committee meeting is what the Minister said - totalitarianism andpaternism are completely foreign phenomena to you. The situation from yesterday with the social services center. Multi-annual beneficiary of benefits: for February period allowance due to unemployment, special allowance for the purchase of medicines, housing allowance, cash benefit for the purchase of food from the government program, from the family benefit system as a single mother family allowance, financing the cost of nutrition in kindergarten, of course we remember kindergarten for gold, a total of PLN 1120. He's asking for extra benefits, special benefit. He's got a proposal in accordance with the article. 11 - contract for socially useful works for PLN 600. You're starting to laugh, I'm sure it's your voter, and he says he's gonna get 500 zlotys from April. It says this to a social worker with a 20-year internship who receives 2200. 20-year internship. Minister, Minister, what do you suggest a social worker do in this situation? How can he encourage such a person to work? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: But they ruled for eight years.]] [[And they didn't give, they didn't give.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u170	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform. [[I'm waiting for an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u171	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The debate at first reading itself and the work of the committee to a large extent. Hence, I will raise the issue of financial resources for local governments to carry out tasks quite comprehensively defined in the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Is the Minister sure that these funds will reach the local governments? Because there is no statutory guarantee in this bill. And the second point I was talking about. It seems that here we must ask for control of the Sejm and the Senate. That is how expensive, such a comprehensive programme will be evaluated, evaluated, this information will be presented to the High House only in 2018, according to the act of 30 September. Very, very late. Isn't it really too much to judge this program after 3 years when, in fact, by raising demographic issues, demographic efficiency... [[It was said yesterday.]] ...of this program, we should have this connected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] much sooner? And that is what I call for us to rethink this issue in the committees, because it is too late, and the Sejm cannot properly carry out its control function here. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u172	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I maintain my opinion that direct cash benefits for children are needed, as well as my opinion that this programme is shot down, because since 2017 there is no funding for it and this will be the financing of development. [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Why are you reporting for the first child?]] However, yesterday during the work of the committee just, Minister, a very interesting proposal was made concerning the first child, namely instead of admitting, as you suggest, one in four to the first child on the basis of an income criterion, for which many different certificates are needed - it is necessary to report when income changes, and this leads to a paradox that, for example. A rich man who has two children will participate in the program, and a woman or a man with one child on a minimum wage may no longer participate, when he jumps on 801 - whether or not to consider the proposal that was made there to give all the first children, but 125 PLN. So this is exactly within the same financial framework, you're covering 1.5 million more families, no one's excluded, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the problem of the gold for the gold and all this anti-motivation fuss in the doorstep is falling and the huge bureaucracy of income, taxes, collection of all of this is falling.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u174	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u175	125 PLN for all the first children and you have a large simplification, dissemination and within the same financial framework. [[Voice from the Chamber: This amendment is to be tabled, sir.]] It was reported yesterday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u176	Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[My idea, sir.]] [[And I like it very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! Law and Justice in its flagship proposal offers parents 500 PLN for the second and subsequent child. However, this idea is affected by a number of disadvantages, which in many cases will lead to unequal treatment especially for families who often have greater problems in their daily functioning, such as. The families are incomplete. In recent days, from the mouth of the ruling party's representative, we have all heard a rather peculiar idea of what a single mother should do in order to benefit from the support of the 500+ programme. At this point, the question arises as to whether perhaps one of the first decisions of the Minister of Health to withdraw in vitro funding was premature and too hasty. The former Minister of Health, Prof. Marian Zembala, knowingly secured the funding for the programme, thanks to which almost 4,000 people have been born in recent years. children. Minister, when the children really were born, I would like to remind you, during this program. [[There was a negative increase.]] [[Voice from the room: Now not?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps it was not only necessary to maintain further funding for this useful [[♪ The bell ♪]] The program, but also extend the program by allowing single women who have problems with getting pregnant. My question: How does the Government of Law and Justice really plan to help single mothers raise one child...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u178	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u179	...which, in today's government proposal, are extremely clearly harmed by their unequal treatment, resulting in...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u180	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u181	...avoiding the possibility of using the flagship... [[One more line.]] [[Voice from the room: Faster, faster.]] ...the idea of law and justice... [[Ewa Kołodziej speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Eva, we're with you.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u182	Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The 500+ bill under procedure arouses a lot of emotions. Yesterday's discussion in the social policy committee was very turbulent and very emotional. Once again, I would like to call on you to help include all children. If it's not a social act, as you say, then the witness should get all the children. It would certainly be more simplistic and less costly then the whole procedure for granting benefits, and yesterday's discussion on the record of parents wasting this money showed that it would be right, however, to set this ceiling rather than the lower ceiling. Once again, I call for the first children and children of single mothers to be no worse than the other children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u184	Thank you. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u185	Thank you very much. I regret that Mr Jarubas is not in the courtroom right now, because the program... [[Voice from the room:]] Oh, there's the Member. I'd advise you to remember that the pro-family program is a common government of platform and PSL... You couldn't have done it, just like you don't have a marshal today, so you've been derailed without the Civic Platform. Here you go, to PiS. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Modern, Mr. Richard Petru praises the Platform's program and develops it. I would advise you to remain in this rhetoric. I have questions for the Minister. 800 PLN net per child and valorization. I mean, they're gonna increase their wages. Did you assume that there would be more people falling out of this program? It's demotivating in the case of raises for parents. Let me remind you, we have won together, Mrs Kochan, mothers in terms of self-employment, mother of the first quarter. You've been working on a program, a maintenance fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is PLN 7.3 billion to be recovered, the tax gap. Minister, how bitter the words made in your mouth yesterday that children are malnourished...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u186	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u187	...and you didn't support the 100 million-dollar amendment to feed the children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u188	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: We gave 16 billion.]] [[Eight years...]] [[I'd love to tell you about it.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Ms Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Before I go to the question, Mr. Marshal, there's an amendment to Law and Justice. I wanted to make amends. I have a question, Minister. We hear a lot of interesting information here, especially since the coalition of the previous ruling team. I have a question. Is it true, Minister, that this very important programme of the Family 500+ is important, but it is one of the elements of the system's solution and family policies of the Government of Law and Justice. Because the Minister also announced other programs. Please answer me. [[Like what?]] But in my spare time, I will say after a classic: if hypocrisy could fly, this part of the room would float. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Something similar.]] [[Voice from the room: A classic from the Czech film.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u190	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u191	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question arises from local governments very often, whether the money that was intended to be used to carry out the tasks of the local government will be sufficient. The question is whether the previous social programmes aimed at the poorer had such a serious financial shield, or whether the money had been closely linked to previous activities, including the previous governing team. On the other hand, the voices that appear on the part of the Civic Platform in particular, when you try to talk about some fraud that we supposedly did during the election campaign, there are basically only two answers to the question why you say that. Or you're intellectually limited because you can't listen with understanding... [[Don't insult us.]] [[Don't insult us, sir.]] ...and this skill already appears in children at an early stage of education... [[You're ill-mannered.]] ...or you're just deliberately lying and falsifying reality... [[I think you're talking about yourself.]] ...to fool the Poles. Tertium non datur. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u192	Thank you. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The debate on the 500+ project has shown that you are not moved by the fate of single mothers raising children, you are not touched by the fate of families who have two, three children and where these two, three already study or learn, are not covered by the programme, are born and treated as the first, and are not covered by the programme. The debate has shown many shortcomings in this programme and you have not once taken into account the opposition's opinion, the opposition's amendment. [[Because they didn't deserve it.]] [[But it's common money.]] You think if you won the election, you're free to do anything. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You've mistaken democratic rule for free Americans. I have a question for the Minister: Will you finally understand that it is worth respecting the opposition's opinion and when it is right to consider it? Thank you very much. [[Bravo, Mirka!]] [[Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska: May I, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u194	Please take the floor of the Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: The album is already jammed.]] [[39 billion zlotys.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We had an eight-year lesson on how to practice the opposition. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[That's not true.]] [[Voice from the court: Minister, but at level please speak.]] We've experienced it. You have no idea yet. [[Voice from the hall: A little on the level, Minister.]] You're short, but we wish you were as long as we were. [[Minister, don't wave a finger at us.]] [[And don't scare me.]] I'm not scaring you, I'm not scaring you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not scaring you. I'm really listening, and I'm wondering when there's gonna be a new question, because it's your album that's jammed on the basis of every kid. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: I asked such a question.]] Every child or single mother. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say openly and clearly: there are no discriminatory elements for single mothers in this programme in this law. Full families, incomplete families, partnerships - all are treated absolutely in the same way. I don't know where you're getting that kind of information... [[Out of your own imaginative imagination.]] ...why it is so, who is served by this rhetoric, who has practiced you... [[We're asking questions, Minister.]] [[We need to read the bill.]] ...who trained you for such monothematic speeches, in which, ladies and gentlemen, every time you talk about the Law and Justice talking about every child. We want to achieve the effect of improving fertility, we want to come out of the demographic crisis. [[And what are the defined partnerships?]] One child in the family is, ladies and gentlemen, little. We want more children than one in our families. [[So do we.]] 53% Polish families are families with only children. [[Children's families, not everyone's.]] The decision to give birth to the first child is not related to the material situation. I've talked about this before. [[That's a lie.]] [[We're talking about research.]] However, if you say that every child is hurting you, for 8 years, please state, as part of family benefits - family benefits - where there is an allowance for a large family, and as a large family we consider a family with three, with four children, from three up, but within the framework of those family benefits that you paid for 8 years, the multi-child family did not receive an allowance for the first child, for the second child... [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] ...just got it to the third and fourth. So where's yours: every kid? [[Applause]] Where have you been for eight years? [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Where have you been? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Other solutions.]] Where have you been? [[Voice from the room: Tax relief.]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] [[Voice from the room: What was it? That's what happened.]] [[The voice from the hall: Minister, but it was a relief.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] As if: on the one hand, a part of your fellow Members comes out and cares about the budget. It's been awful for them for years... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That is correct, everything should be prepared in the financial plan for the next 25 years, because some people have become attached to the economy that is still planned with the Polish People's Republic. But, ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, you are making absolutely contradictory amendments, because if we say: for every child, the project costs much more. Then you have to decide something. [[Yeah, you had to decide that in the election campaign.]] Or we're wasting our resources... [[Voice from the room: 20 billion.]] ...or, ladies and gentlemen, we want to finance a task of this magnitude again, costing 40 billion. You are talking about a social assistance centre, Madame. We worked on the committee for many years. [[It's me.]] You're saying a social worker doesn't make much money. So what? It's the law and justice? [[But the question was different, Minister.]] We're talking about benefits. You know very well that a social worker who will know that the material situation of his dependant has improved, can actually carry out a contract with this family, may lay down certain conditions, because the contract must specify the reciprocity of actions. There must be reciprocity, right? It's not just that a person comes, is a claim, puts up terms and gets. A number of benefits are optional. [[Of course.]] All these benefits are not mandatory. [[Of course. And you're ruining it.]] These optional benefits are granted depending on how the situation of the beneficiary is assessed. Saying that we will perpetuate poverty is already absurd, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Different states of consciousness.]] This is already absurd, because I was talking about how the material situation of Polish families will improve in what range. With one child it will be 1.4 million families, with two children - 1.9 One million, three, three, three, maybe three, maybe a thousand, and so on. They're families. 3.7 million Polish children will receive education. Madame, to feed children, yes, indeed for how many years there have been 550 million PLN. [[Plus 150 local governments.]] But, Commissioner, if your mother gets 500 zlotys of education today, I assure you that she will be able to buy lunches, pack a better breakfast in the bag. [[Just like they're not gonna take benefits, for sure.]] Definitely, yeah. [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] Yes, ma'am, I do. I was at meetings where there was a common belief that only people who had money knew how to spend that money, and all the rest who didn't make enough money, just didn't know how to make it or waste it. [[You're insulting people now. There is a lack of intelligence in this statement.]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, yeah, I've heard that. Ladies and gentlemen, people with little money... [[Voice from the room: Why aren't you responding, Marshal?]] ...they'll really watch every dollar a hundred times before they spend it. So that a little more respect and non-impersonation of admitting an educational witness, with people wasting money. [[No, don't say that.]] [[But this isn't about people...]] They won't waste. Trust them. [[Applause]] See what our prognosis forecasts look like... [[Henry Krzywonos-Strycharska: They will have nothing, because you will not give them.]] [[Voice from the hall: Culture a little bit, listen...]] ...poverty and improvement of the situation related to the fertility of families, sir. Because all studies in Poland show, however, that the declared number of children that Poles would like to have is much larger than the one where they end up. [[And they remain in the sphere of declaration, amen.]] They remain in the sphere of declarations, they have these 2+1s. [[Amen.]] Unless they're in the UK, Ireland, Scotland. There the fertility of Poles is impressive and this fertility rate is up to 2.5. [[A voice from the hall: One child gets money there.]] So when we talk to people who are in exile, and we ask how it happens, then they, then these young Poles who live abroad say: because there is a beloved country that helps us... [[Voice from the room: For every child.]] ...which allows children to be raised. They work, too. And, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, don't worry so much that everyone will quit their jobs right away. They won't. [[Yes, they will.]] People think they're better off living in their families. Do not look at everything from the point of view of Warsaw, because there is still a village in Poland, there are a number of small towns, there is so-called. District Poland and there people are really waiting for this benefit. [[Applause]] [[Minister, Mother of God...]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u196	Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, as corrected. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] [[Did someone call her by name?]] [[Voice from the hall: Mrs. Krystyna, not Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u197	I'd like to ask you at first to start with a question... [[Is that correct or ask?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...and for the Minister to correct what she meant... [[Voice from the room: There is a queue for questions.]] ...saying, "Who's been practicing you guys?" Because this is a non-elegant statement, not in place, not in relation to Members of the Republic of Poland. The minister says you're modeling on other countries. Hungary - the first child yes, Britain - the first child yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u198	Member, this is polemicism.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u199	So, Minister... [[Madame, there is an abuse of the correction procedure.]] [[But that's not a corrigendum...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u200	Did you want to correct it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u201	We ask you to apologize to us in this courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u202	Good. Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Voice from the hall: Who are we to apologize for, what? For giving money?]] [[I didn't discuss it with you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, Members of the opposition...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u204	Excuse me, sir, one second. [[You're the one who's gonna be trained in this.]] I'm asking you to control your emotions, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u205	...often raises the argument that instead of giving 500 PLN to parents on a child it would be better to spend this money e.g. for the extension of the holiday or for the construction of kindergartens or crèches. We have already started such programs in Poland. At least the state keeps calling them back, even though most of them were implemented by local authorities, it is clear how much the State has committed to these programmes. And now I wanted to ask. Minister, does the Ministry have any data that would show how the real implementation of these programmes has affected the possible increase in fertility? Because I think we just don't have satisfactory results here. On the other hand, I can say from the local market that a number of local private kindergartens and nursery facilities have been created. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The problem is, there are no children. Why aren't there any kids? Because parents can't afford to send them to that nursery or kindergarten. I believe that when these measures are launched, there will be additional crèches and additional kindergartens and there will be children in them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u206	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to remind my colleagues at PSL that it was Minister Kosiniak-Kamysz who rejected the proposal in the Tripartite Commission to prepare a state demographic strategy. [[Oh, he's not admitting it.]] Minister, if I understand correctly, the bill is prodemographic. These are not benefits for poor families, they are not benefits for children, but aid for families, which will allow our nation to continue. [[Then why the income criterion?]] Families with two children guarantee a simple generation substitution, and only those with more children contribute to reducing the demographic gap. It's these families that need to be supported. Childless marriages and families with one child do not contribute to reducing the demographic gap, so this law does not apply to them. If the income of these families is low, [[♪ The bell ♪]] they can continue to benefit from system solutions in the field of social assistance. Minister, please answer if I have properly understood the purpose of this bill. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: Yeah, I'm sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u208	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Mucha, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to quote the argument which appears rather rarely in this debate. Well, Minister, you're talking about Britain, you're talking about Poles who have children abroad. This is very, very strongly linked to the birth of the first child. In Poland it is over 29 years, if we are talking about media. If we're talking about increasing childhood, then we need to give the Polish people, our women, a chance to have them at 31, 33 or 35 years of age and still have the baby. Therefore, support for the first child is so important. Therefore, support in these countries, which have been repeated many times, is so important, because if the first child is born early enough, then the next children will be born. And one more thing. You just... [[The first child is in 53% of the families, we repeat, and you do not accept it.]] ...in her speech, she said the opposition was mistreated. I learned that your questions were not answered during the committee meeting. But is it true that these answers were not given [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it because you've come at the last minute of these committee meetings almost always? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u210	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice have the floor. [[If she didn't, she wouldn't have made it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I listened to the debate yesterday, today and, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this conclusion. The difference between PiS, Law and Justice, and PO is that you treat it as a cost. And it was said that this is an investment, an investment aimed at improving [[Applause]] living conditions of the family, Polish family, with Polish money. And this money will go back to the budget in different ways. And that's the primary task. You, on the other hand, keep reminding each other of what you've done. [[But where are the questions, sir? Question.]] Your accomplishment is that after you took power, you introduced VAT on children's clothes and took a whole range of other actions that allowed the Polish family to live up to it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But I wouldn't talk about it, 'cause you guys pick it up all the time...]] [[23%.]] You have no right to talk about it in such a tone today. Whoever invented it, Minister... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean, constantly?]] [[We've lowered it. But you are lying, my fellow Member.]] ... so that the Polish family gets... [[But you are lying, my fellow Member.]] ...that kind of money, 500+, you deserve a special reward... [[Who promised 3 times 15? Dwarfs?]] ...and the memory of generations of Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u212	Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As the father of four daughters, I would like to say on behalf of all those who... [[The voice from the hall: Uh, the whole woman.]] ...they are very lucky to have large families: we are very happy that this program will finally be able to function, that it will be able to support Polish families. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention one very important issue that we often ignore here in this Chamber. It will be a programme that will for the first time support families so strongly, so intensively in rural environments. Dear Civic Platform, dear politicians of the Polish People's Party, hit your chest. [[Voice from the room: Speak for yourself.]] For eight years, when it comes to rural families, young farmers, you have done nothing to help them to help them operate in rural centres. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that above all in this area, in this respect, we must [[♪ The bell ♪]] talk about the fact that this is the aid that farmers need. Minister, and two questions. Is it true that the 500+ programme is the first programme after 1989 to support Polish families living in the countryside? And how much money from the whole program will go to rural families, to the Polish countryside? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u214	Thank you, sir. [[Mr. Marshal very gracious in terms of passing time, very much.]] Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u215	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The opposition is stuck in lamentations and demagogy and scares Poles that they will get 500 PLN each. Keep up the good work, keep up the good work. [[Applause]] Don't scare the Poles... [[Why don't you listen with understanding?]] ...that they'll get 500 zlotys each because it just won't pay off. You don't even understand what you're talking about. You don't understand. [[Member of Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: 1 April, prima aprilis.]] Minister, this programme is excellent, well-accepted sociologically, socially. Young mothers and fathers are happy, families are happy, children who count on the money. [[Voice from the Chamber: But not all, Mr President, not all.]] And you say the show's bad. [[Applause]] You fear this truth and plagiarize reality. [[Sit down, sit down.]] You're plagiarizing reality... [[Sit down.]] ...to his next 500+ program, [[Touchdown, applause]] And plagiarism doesn't pay off anybody. Minister, I have a question. [[That's what you'd say, too.]] Does this program discriminate against anyone, anyone? Because, in my opinion, he doesn't discriminate against anyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[First child, remember.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u216	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u217	Mr. Marshal! Dear Socialists Believers and Unbelievers... [[First child, sir.]] We're interested in work. Socialists believe and non-believers, we are interested in the work and cost of this work, i.e. the proper demographic system. We'd like to support him. Kukiz has once again the best program, in fact, because we do not want to give 500 PLN, but probably 600 PLN and 700 PLN. Give people jobs, so let's cut the cost of work. Where's the greatest childhood? In Yemen, [[Applause]] in Bangladesh, France, but because of which you have not foreseen in this project, and perhaps for these reasons we will also increase our childhood, i.e. because of emigrants. [[Joy in the Chamber]] How did PSL support family policy? Yeah, you know, in the agencies. I think Mr. Piechociński said that this week. I think he called it a blood harvest, which means his men were slaughtered. How did the Platform do it? I could talk a lot here. You've been doing this for eight years, for a really long time. [[Voice from the room: Very good, sir.]] How does PiS do that? Socialistly, ladies and gentlemen... [[The Poles judged it.]] ...but it's a good thing they noticed the direction. And the question is, how much is this program going to be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did it cost us? [[The Poles assessed it and summarized it.]] How many officials and what costs? Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sorry I missed your time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u218	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Kopcińska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! During the process of this important project for Poles many times, the Civic Platform spoke: fraud and promises. I will just remind you that in 2007 it was nobody else, only Donald Tusk promised, he swore to Poles that anyone who in his government offered to raise taxes would be thrown out personally by him. [[I wouldn't touch taxes because you raise them all the time.]] He announced a green island and a fight against bureaucracy, while excise duty, VAT rate, [[Applause]] pension contribution - you can exchange many - bureaucracy. Is it true, Minister, that about 43,000. He's grown... [[Don't talk about taxes, 'cause you guys raised them all the time.]] I did not interrupt the Member. [[Somehow Tusk didn't throw himself out.]] ...number of official posts? Ladies and gentlemen, isn't it a backwards memory and just a dove's heart? Dear Minister, will the programme dedicated to Polish families have a positive impact on the Polish economy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have calculations, will GDP increase or not? [[How many kids are coming?]] Is this the only form of support for Polish families?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u220	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u221	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[How much longer will the number of children increase?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u222	Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u223	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ programme, which introduces Law and Justice, meets the standards of the European Union. So far, there's been no support for the families. I'm saying this as the mother of four children. [[But don't lift a finger at us.]] So far, the six-person family had to split the gold into six, had no possibility of tax deduction. [[But it's social, not demography.]] Single parents and fathers have the option of tax deduction. Why was the family discriminated against? Family is the highest value. This family must be supported primarily by financial support to increase childhood, because the state hasn't done anything for eight years. [[Applause]] [[You don't nod at us...]] Enough, you've introduced 23% VAT. for all children's articles, children were taken away from poor families, and you were pursuing a deliberate policy that [[♪ The bell ♪]] To discriminate against families. Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice conducts a policy against the current...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u224	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u225	...that's noble fish, and you took the politics with you, which means you took all the garbage, making a mess in Poland. Thank you. [[That's what she said.]] [[Ask for Hofman.]] [[I know her.]] [[Member, be careful.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u226	Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u227	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PO, do you remember the protests of single mothers raising children, disabled children? Remember? [[We remember.]] Remember, right? And the VAT on babies' clothes and children's clothes, remember? [[Then reduce that tax, you have the opportunity, and most of it. You've got two taxes to raise.]] Hypocrites, you should burn yourselves out of shame. There is no Mr Petru who gives us a panacea to increase the funding for family policies: to collect child support. How does Mr. Ryszard Petru want to collect alimony when he parades on demonstrations with a leading ally in Poland? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] How does Mr. Petru want to do that if he believes the one who doesn't pay the alimony court sentence? [[Talk, insult, gossip. This is what a Member of the Republic offers.]] Mr. Petru, you should hide underground with the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] Minister! Given the far-reaching illiteracy in the social policy of the Civic Platform, please give the Members the basic parameters of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: To the ethics committee!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u228	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, During the election campaign, Prime Minister Beata Szydło said: 500 PLN per child. Yesterday we were convinced it was about every other one and every one of them. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister, Members of the Law and Justice, of the governing party: Did everyone in the PiS understand the same way that everyone is not everyone, just everyone else and everyone else? Second question: What about 3 million children excluded from this programme? Has the Government of Law and Justice considered, e.g. as part of the consolation prize, assigning them these 3 million apartments built by the PiS in the years 2005-2007? [[Applause]] It's been a while, but nothing's changed. Promises are exactly what they're worth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]] [[Bad, thin and no punch line.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u230	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 800 PLN net is the income threshold which entitles you to receive aid 500+. 1200 is, of course, for a child with a disabled child. And now let's assume that the employer wants to get promoted, give him a raise. Will any employee be interested? Isn't it better to get help 500+? [[Voice from the room: It's obvious.]] Will it not be more profitable to earn 3375 gross and take a benefit than to earn 4125 gross? Is that what this was all about? And the second thread. The Social Dialogue Act came in last year. What happened? Why is the dialogue dead? Where was the social side on the committee last night? Did she get an invitation early enough? [[Applause]] [[Look who's talking. What have you been doing for eight years? How did you treat social opinion?]] Mrs... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I can't speak. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's just getting nasty.]] Did she get an invitation early enough to attend a committee meeting? And where are the opinions...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u232	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u233	...social side to this project? [[Time's up, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u234	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u235	The opinions have always been submitted... [[Vice-Marshal Stanisław Tyszka turns off the microphone by Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka]] [[Thank you, Member.]] [[Thank you so much. The Poles thanked October 25th.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u236	Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u237	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister: Will you change the date of entry into force of this bill or possibly introduce a vacatio legis because... You may not know it yet, but I think there's a serious concern that your source of funding is falling apart. Not more than an hour ago... [[You'd like it if you didn't wait for yours.]] ...Vice Prime Minister Morawiecki and Minister of Finance Shalacha had a press conference on retail tax. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax has one objective set out in the explanatory memorandum to the bill: to finance the budget expenditure resulting from the implementation of the 500+ family support programme. And what did the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance say at this conference? New data were to be presented. Among other things, the Deputy Prime Minister said: "There is no excessive haste. We need to work on this project. The most normal way in the world is to define the commercial networks differently. Ready project, ma'am, to be the source of funding from April 1st. He still says this: We want the vast majority of society to be satisfied. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The vast majority of Polish family trading companies are to be satisfied with the tax. [[Voice from the room: Great networks, great networks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u238	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u239	Not much, the European Commission has questioned this project... [[Vice-Marshal Stanisław Tyszka turns off the microphone by Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u240	Thank you, Member. [[You can already read with such a political internship with understanding.]] [[And you, divided into roles, read.]] Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u241	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The Government of Law and Justice has such manners that it is notoriously divided between Poles. You're doing it, ladies and gentlemen, with surgical precision 24 hours a day. [[Bad passwords like a broken record. Your colleague has come to the Pack...]] Yes? [[Voice from the hall: The Pack has been for eight years.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I personally worked for families with disabled children... [[Your pack's been here eight years.]] ...I worked for families, for pathological families, and I know what needs are. I will not agree that 500 PLN will change everything and the children will be born more and more. On the other hand, you tell and convince Poles that the Civic Platform is against supporting the Polish family. That's not true. Absolutely not, because for eight years, there's a lot left. Done. [[Applause]] [[Oh, a lot!]] I wish families by your government so much They got a good one. I think you should hit your chests, see what the truth is, because you don't even believe what you're saying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is done against the Platform. [[Madam, wipe your eyes and open them.]] My question is still this: Why do you do everything to divide Poles, and start with the division of children? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u242	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Program 500+, program of the PiS government is not a program for every child. We already know that. You rejected the amendment of the Civic Platform in committee, which developed this programme to involve every child. But this program is also not a program for every other child, because we learn that even a child who is 2, 3 years old and is the second child in the family, will not get help if his older brother or sister is 18 years old and 1 day old. The amendments submitted by the Civic Platform were rejected. But pay attention to one more amendment that we will make today. This amendment concerns the mitre you are giving your parents regarding the submission of applications under this programme. Well, every year parents will have to apply, even if the child is one year old every year. 18 applications will need to be submitted over the next years. Why? What are these conclusions for? We have prepared an amendment that makes it possible to submit [[♪ The bell ♪]] Once a proposal, once a decision is received, and the child can receive funding throughout his entire child's life.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u244	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u245	Support this amendment, which reduces bureaucracy and reduces the mitra of parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u246	I would like the floor of Minister Elizabeth Rafalska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Although some of the questions I would like to answer on an ongoing basis, in order to perhaps anticipate the repetition of these questions. Well, the foundations of this program are simple. In the case of the first child, if we are to receive a benefit, we must meet the income criterion 800 PLN and high criteria... [[Voice from the room: But we know.]] ...mostly higher - 1200 PLN - if he is applying for the benefit of the first child family with a disabled child. From the second child each child receives a benefit of PLN 500 until the age of 18. If he is 18 years old, he is no longer entitled to receive education. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: That's not true.]] On the other hand, if it is counted on income, if it is a learner or student or a high school student, if it is counted on income to another type of benefit, it shall be counted as remaining on the common holding. [[Minister, that's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of this allowance period being such a short period... Well, the first allowance period, ladies and gentlemen, is an exceptionally long, exceptionally favourable period for the local government as well. If the benefit is granted on 1 April 2016, the decision will apply until 30 September 2017. [[And how will he become the first child in the meantime?]] This is a very long time to make decisions. I will refer here immediately, ladies and gentlemen, because there are many contradictions, to the situation of funding and the performance of this task by local authorities. So the situation in which we make a decision that is valid for such a long time does not require it is not as absorbing as making decisions every year. Of course, situations related to the birth of children will also be resolved on an ongoing basis, right, with changes in the income situation, with the age of 18 or with all others. Now you can hear worried voices about the situation of local governments. I also answered about it yesterday. Self-governments have, they'll have a monthly vacathio legis. We're assuming it's March. If this bill is adopted in the next week, let's say by March 15th... [[You know that...]] ...they still have until the end of February, all of March, and the program starts in April, which allows local governments to organize payouts or organize applications, make decisions. In order for the local authorities to deal with this, please, efficiently, there is exceptionally a provision in the Act, which in the first year of validity allows the local government to issue decisions not within a month, as usual, only: April, May, June. Therefore, if we still count that March is a period of vacathio legis, large local governments, which will serve a lot of applications, will have this extended time - plus another 2 weeks of February - then, please, this is not a time for local governments, which - you can say - prevents them from organizing their payments. I live in Gorzów, where I have a parliamentary office. I was already at the Gorzowski Family Help Centre in December, where I talked about how they were preparing for the program. Even then I heard that they were thinking about logistics, how they were supposed to be prepared. We also get letters, information from local governments that say that families in their localities are simply waiting for this witness that they are really prepared. And if large local governments, Warsaw, Cracow, Gdańsk have concerns, then, please, to some extent, it will depend on the efficient organisation of this - organizing the collection of applications, issuing decisions. And now you're probably talking about costs. Yes? It is I who will tell you that the parental benefit, which by the decision of the previous parliament was passed as a task for the local governments, was valued at - in words - 30 zloty. That's what local governments get for making decisions. [[Gold.]] 30 zloty, Member. [[Gold.]] This 30 zloty is, ladies and gentlemen, 0.5%. commissions. We propose a 2% commission, next year a 1% commission. [[It's too much money.]] I'm asking you to talk honestly about what the proposal is for the local government. This is really a task commissioned, which will be financed at such a level that not the government, not the family minister or any other will decide who will do it, how many officials will be. [[The taxpayer will pay.]] It's not ours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The task will be done by local governments. In order for these local governments to be able to start preparing for this start of the programme earlier, a week after the President signed the bill, before the payouts start, the local authorities will already be able to receive funds to handle this task. [[Take 700 zł to the taxpayer to give 500 zł.]] So they can run, buy equipment if they need to. In small towns, I heard, told me one, the other mayor, that he would manage, that he would benefit from employees, family benefits, depending on what the organization would be like. In any event, there is also a provision in the Act that the operation of this task must not interfere with the work of social assistance centres. So this task will be carried out by the governor, the mayor, the president. [[But how do you do that, Minister?]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to write in today, how exactly this is to be implemented, then in a moment we would be accusing ourselves of violating the autonomy of the local government that we decide who, how, how we create bureaucracy and so on... [[But local governments don't have enough money.]] See that the local government has a really flexible instrument. Sometimes we meet, there are such voices: not enough money for local governments to answer in a moment: it costs too much for this program. [[They found themselves self-defense counsel after eight years of racking up trouble.]] You have to be able to decide the arguments. Excessive administration - local authorities will decide whether they will find a way to handle this task under these measures. We have conducted consultations in all voivodships, we plan, High Izbo, trainings that will be conducted by employees of the IT department, the Department of Family Policy through the services of voivodeships, all representatives of local governments, we will cooperate, train, prepare for the start of this program. I believe that if local governments want good cooperation with the government side, this program can be well implemented, that the small government will certainly make decisions quickly, and the big government, as it will, will have these 3 months to make a decision... [[Do we have a position of self-government?]] ...and at the same time every applicant - in order not to be so, please, that everyone must submit these applications within a week or two or a month - such an average Kowalski will be able to submit an application, for example. within 3 months, i.e. by the end of June, and will receive this compensation for June, May and April. We really tried to prepare legal solutions that will help local governments, which will show that we cared about good cooperation with the local government, while bureaucracy and that we said that it could be 5 and 6 thousand, please - we also need to look at how many municipalities we have in Poland. As I hear that some local government of 150 jobs... [[It's gonna take a lot more...]] We've got almost $2.5,000. Municipalities, so if we are talking about the fact that it would be 2.8 or some job on average for the municipality, we are not talking about some gigantic expansion of local government administration, and at the same time we have a benefit that is supported by local governments - it is a family benefit - which supports some comparable number of employees that we have talked about, but how this logisticsally the local government will use, it can just make it much easier to run this program. I took the liberty of taking this information because it may not oblige Members to further questions, but, of course, we are ready to answer. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode.]] [[Voice from the room: But there was no name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u248	Good. Here you go, sir, in a correction mode. [[There was no name of the Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u249	Minister, I would like to ask for clarification, because what you said is very important. We have two children in the family, the first child is 17 years old, the second child is 1 year old. How long is the PiS project gonna get help from the other kid who's having the year? How long will his help be paid? And the second point about this bureaucracy. Well, the costs that this program will generate... [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum, this is a question.]] [[It's a polemic, not a corrigendum.]] ...depends on how complicated the decision-making procedure is. If the procedure were simpler, you could hire half as many people. Thank you very much. [[The Member has not used the time for the question and is now using the time for the correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u250	Mr Daniel Milewski has the floor... Oh, I'm sorry, unless the Minister wants...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u251	If there are two children, the second child is 17 years old, then he will receive the benefit until he is 18 years old. The first child will receive the benefit if the income criterion 800 and 1200 PLN are met. [[So he's not gonna get it if the income criterion isn't met?]] On the other hand, with regard to this bureaucracy, we absolutely believe that it is easy to collect and supplement these proposals. [[But why every year?]] To a greater extent, we could not really reduce the number of statements made, but there is only a proposal. Other data shall be collected through the system from the civil status office. [[Why every year, Minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u252	Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u253	Minister, the 500+ programme is opposed to the so-called. It's a moustache. Please provide information on the number of persons to be covered in 2016 by the Ministry. [[Called PSL moustache. No one else uses that name.]] The 500+ programme will cover 2.5 million families, and will the lawn mower benefit at least 200,000. Women? I also ask for information on the conditions to be met in order to be able to apply for this benefit and on the procedure for granting it. How complicated is this compared to 500+? I would like to point out that I am meeting with a number of people who, following numerous speeches by politicians and media communications, have had high hopes of improving their financial situation and who, for various reasons, cannot benefit from it. Will the 500+ programme also be so problematic? I don't think so. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No one except PSL uses that name.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u254	Thank you. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 13 August 2015, Ms Ewa Kopacz, criticizing the 500+ programme, said, among other things, that in the state budget there is no money for such ideas and such laws. Today we see the Civic Platform waking up. You have noticed that this programme, like our other proposals, has a very large, huge interest, huge social support. We kept our word. What we said during the election campaign today is what we are doing. There is a bill draft, there is money saved in the state budget for 2016. Listening to this at first reading, now during second reading, as well as what happened in the media last night, I wonder how you can twist as much as you can lie, dear opposition. From the very beginning we talked about the income threshold, the income threshold for the first child, and the state [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're stubbornly saying that lie. Dear opposition, today I would like to repeat after you Minister: Polish families...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u256	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u257	...will not forget this hypocrisy and hypocrisy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u258	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u259	Oh, you don't have a minister anymore, that's too bad. [[Voice from the room: There's the minister.]] Minister, since you don't notice us in the debate and you're just exchanging views, because I think you're comfortable with the Civic Platform, I'd like to repeat my question. The question is this: If, God give you health, you will be able to implement this program, and for 10 years you will pursue it, and the demographic goals you have set for yourself in this programme will be fulfilled by the letter, and we will have those 410 thousand. The birthdays you set up on the show every year, what you're gonna do in 10 years, when it turns out we're an ageing society and we're gonna start dying out, we don't have kids, because we don't have 410,000. This is a drop of needs, ZUS is bankrupt, budget is inefficient, society is economically inefficient? Do you have a real program to improve demography? And tell us his assumptions. Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u260	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Platform. Okay, Mrs Joanna has the floor... Are you? [[There's Mrs. Fabisiak.]] Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister isn't here, and it's a shame... [[Voice from the room: You're the minister.]] ...because you started preparing this bill from the end. When there's a project, then there's a consultation, and it's a duty. It's a statutory duty, not just a duty, it would seem moral. But that's why it looks like that. The government invited yesterday, half an hour before, didn't consult the project. Just now the Minister said, "There will be plenty of time." That's not true. This isn't the only bill. The minister spoke as if it were the only project, but at the moment the local governments had already fallen six years old, you are talking about middle school and everything. If you talked to local governments, you'd know exactly that people are just terrified of everything that's going on. Plus, there's a new project with a very complicated administration. A friend of mine was just talking about it. It's gonna take a lot of employees to just sit there. No wonder you're prolonging this time, but this [[♪ The bell ♪]] is not a solution to the problem. And the question I'd like to ask the absentee...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u262	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u263	...or the current Minister... [[Abandoned or present?]] The Minister, to the question of one simple question, has not yet been answered by anyone - to the question of why this group has been divided and this system has been divided, because it is a system having... [[Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka turns off the microphone by Joannie Fabisiak]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u264	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u265	Will you allow the marshal to finish?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u266	No, my fellow Member. Watch your time, I told you. [[Joanna Fabisiak speaks with the microphone off]] No, all Members have the same time. Please leave the speaker, Madame. [[How about a minute and a half? Can you talk any longer? Why did we get any shorter?]] Member, please leave the stand. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this question, because in the Family Benefits Act, the definition of a disabled child is that he is a child until he is 16 years old, and I have a question about what is the definition of a disabled child until the end of the Act, because, in fact, he is 16 years old, but the question is... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Same definition. My question is: Do you intend in any way, because it is discriminatory for children with disabilities and families with such a child... [[Game in the O.R.]] Yeah, but the state... a good change should be about eliminating the bad solutions, the legal bases that exist. Therefore, the question is: Can this be eliminated in any way? The first child, 1200 zł - this is the income threshold - until 16 years, in the case of a full-time child it is 18 years old. So that I hope that we can eliminate it. And I have a huge request for a written reply. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u268	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 500+ programme is expected by Poles, it will support Polish families. The Civic and Modern Platform disturbs and criticises this very well-prepared bill. Yesterday, in the Social Policy Committee, the opposition used only parliamentary obstruction and tabled amendments to disorganize the bill and compromise the programme. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] Or, for example, an amendment of the opposition on the transfer of services to several dozen ZUS branches to help families? The Platform and the Modern said that there is no money for this benefit for families, and here the Platform declares the plagiarism of the bill, which will cost many billions more. Minister, how much will this plagiarism of the Platform, which has led anti-family politics so far, cost? And to the Platform: you should apologize to Minister Elizabeth Rafalska for your behaviour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u270	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u271	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You Members of the Polish People's Party criticize the law, although you know that it is unfair, and we, Members of the Polish People's Party, support your law because we believe that although this may not solve the demographic problem, it will certainly help Polish families. It's just a shame that we regret that you didn't support our gold amendment, because more Poles would benefit from this solution. I would therefore like to ask the Minister and ask for a clear answer to this question: What will be taken into account and how will the farmer's income be calculated? Now let me have one more sentence because I have time. Dear Minister, To this day I was convinced that I lived in Poland and worked in parliament where we wanted to build a better Poland, a fairer one. Today I learned, not today, that it is not about better and fairer [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland - it's all about practicing the opposition. I've found out what these exercises are all about. This will still be mentioned in this Parliament some times. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u272	Thank you, sir. [[What were you doing?]] Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u273	Mr. Marshal! Minister! [[But he did his best, what do you want?]] Family-type institutions - 230 facilities, 1700 children. [[You try all the time, sir. You try all the time.]] Please state: Will these children finally get the money or won't they get it? [[He said very nicely.]] That's another line. I have three children, and neither your 500 zlotys nor the relief of the Platform have caused me to have three children. [[I'm defending you. And since I'm not doing so well...]] That's one thing. Second of all, I have a question for you. I'll take the $1,000, of course. zł and I will give this money to the children who really need it. Is this gonna be a waste of money? Will this money be taken from me as I will pass it on to other children? [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: God, what a stupid question. How can you ask such questions?]] Normal. Will I be left with... I'm asking about the waste. [[A free country, anyone can. We live in a free country for now.]] And one more question. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: There are no stupid questions, there are only stupid answers.]] That's what my professor at college said - there's no stupid questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u274	Please allow me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u275	And I have a very specific question. What's gonna happen to the money, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When the bailiff takes care of the children's accounts, parents, and the money comes into those accounts? What about the money?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u276	Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern. [[It's not like that money's under bailiff's jurisdiction. He didn't read the bill.]] I'm sorry, Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u277	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Mr Tułaev made a joke because hypocrisy is when you give 500 zlotys to citizens on the one hand, but on the other hand you draw 500 zlotys with new taxes, which we will undoubtedly cook in this Chamber. And we already have two new taxes. [[Voice from the room: From thick pockets.]] One from hypermarkets or commerce... [[Who are you defending? Bankers?]] ...the other connected with... [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Lakmus paper. We know who you're defending.]] ...banks. Unfortunately, citizens will pay for this. However, I have a question about the law itself. Well, if we deal with such a situation that there are two parents, they both have full rights to raise, and one of these parents does not participate in raising children, is somewhere on the other side of Poland, but will apply for these 500 PLN and get them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And then the second parent who actually raises children will come forward, how will this matter be explained?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u278	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u279	Is there any mode for this explanation? How long are these kids gonna wait for this 500 zloty? Who's gonna be responsible for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u280	Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u281	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question, or actually I would like to ask you to clarify the terms used in the bill. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 refers to the purpose of the benefit, whereas Article. 9 is used the word "waste." Both concepts have not been clarified in the dictionary of the law in any way. I was trying to get information... [[Very good.]] ...I tried to get information on this yesterday during the committee's deliberations. The General Data Protection Officer and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child also made reservations about the lack of identification of these concepts. These are criteria or concepts that are so important that they really allow rules to be laid down as to whether this money is wasted or not, whether it should be taken away, reduced, etc. They will not be taken formally, only the state will then pay the benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, it is important that this is clarified, because who will then be responsible? Are the officials who... [[But the answer was on the committee yesterday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u282	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u283	Are the officials who will make these decisions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u284	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The first thing is an appeal to Mr Jan Mosiński to limit his personal trips to Mr Richard Petru, who has repeatedly said that not paying child support is absolutely reprehensible and unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[And where is Mr. Petru? He's gone.]] As for the bill, it was an election, you had the right to buy votes. You bought it, you won it. You bought those votes on credit. [[What kind of buying?]] If you'd gotten that credit in the SKOKs, I wouldn't be so worried about it, 'cause they'd probably cut it off. But you have borrowed a loan that will be paid by the Polish society for generations, because you have no money to finance this commitment. [[There's money in the budget.]] You don't have the money and you've identified the source of funding in two places, including. in taxes that rob Polish entrepreneurs. [[But who are you defending? Who are you defending?]] You haven't made any safeguards in the event of an economic crisis. There's nowhere to say what you're gonna do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] if the budget can only afford the 200+ programme. [[Time!]] You couldn't take 14 miners, you couldn't take that money away from people.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u286	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u287	And one last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u288	No, no. Thank you, sir, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u289	We didn't get an answer. Is this bill... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] ...is in accordance with the Act... [[Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Thank you, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u290	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u291	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, could you focus, please, because I'd like to direct... [[She's got divisive attention.]] Tell me this: What about single mothers? Or let me put it another way. A woman is married and at some point in her life her husband leaves her to another woman and has another, second child with the other woman. Question: "Will the other child receive this 500 PLN?" [[How he's gonna perform.]] Because the point is, first of all... [[Voice from the room: We've already explained this several times.]] [[Bravo.]] [[...read the bill.]] Read the bill. Please indicate a specific point from which it is clear... [[Read, read!]] If so, please answer in writing. [[I'm just gonna do my homework.]] Is the woman who's injured... And her kid's hurt because he lost his father. My wife lost her husband, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And at this point, the husband, going to another woman, gains 500 zlotys for the second child... [[I feel discriminated against. Why is this an example of men?]] ...and has a new model of a woman. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Besides divorced women, you should take care of the widows.]] [[This is discrimination against men.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u292	Thank you, Member. You have the floor of Artur Soboń, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u293	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I like it very much, Minister, that we keep bureaucracy to a minimum in this programme. I really like that ridiculous solutions like gold for gold, so ridiculously expensive, in this program will not work. I also like the proposal, which is very simple: the next steps will be carried out by officials of social assistance centres. My question to the Minister, to the Minister, is: Are the IT systems that these officials have available for this purpose prepared for it? Does Emp@tia work properly? Is it that this system was interested in the prosecution and the Central Anti-corruption Office and that all the information systems that the Civic Platform has left us are systems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which... Perhaps it will not be possible to use them in practice. [[Emp@tia works everywhere.]] [[Mr President, empathy has not come to the O.R. today.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u294	Thank you. The floor is voiced by Magdalena Błeńska, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u295	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Dear Minister, I'll turn my back on behalf of the young. I'm one of those yearbooks you were talking about, the yearbooks from which more than 11% left. Young people, and I say that I feel a little agitated about our yearbooks being defined, a whole generation of young people as a generation of losers who have to live on a pot of state. [[Why? Says who?]] The mere assumption that we need state aid puts us in this situation. It means we can't take care of ourselves. With all due respect, this is a very inappropriate diagnosis. So now I'm going to tell you why young people are leaving Poland. Young people go to work, young people want to work legally. [[Applause]] They're going to countries where there's no ZUS killer, [[Applause]] Because that's what the ZUS is called in a generation of young people. The ZUS that kills the crawling, young companies... [[And how much money doesn't matter?]] ... ZUS, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which does not give any cost-effectiveness of running a company, hiring employees or working in Poland. Young people leave for a decent job. So I ask the question: Why doesn't the PiS take advantage of our ready solution...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u296	Thank you, Member. [[Mr. Marshal, a little more, a little more.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u297	...about making it possible not only that support for families is still a picture of the tax wedge from work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u298	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u299	500 PLN per child - this was supposed to be the case, but the campaign ended and today you are proposing to Poles and Poles a program that divides them into those who are due, those who are not due... [[But how much can you explain?]] ...and on those who are due, but should not be used. Why did you deceive Poles and Poles? Why do you divide children for better and worse? Now the 500+ project is not for every child, not even for the second, when the first one turns 18. In a word: not for everyone; in a word: not for everyone. [[You haven't read it.]] Minister, three families. Five - person family: income 900 PLN per person in the family, three sons - two students, the third son is 9 years old. She's not getting any 500+. Neighbors live next door: two children, income - 2.5 thousands. per person. They'll get 500+. [[But where is it?]] And family three. A single mom and her daughter live upstairs. Income - 801 PLN per person. This family will not receive the benefit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you want to accept the Civic Platform's amendments? We want to help you get out of your fraud. We want to help you get out of your fraud that you're doing right now... [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u300	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u301	...which will harm 3 million children... [[Time's up.]] [[Don't yell.]] ...which will hurt 1800 thousand. Polish families. [[Platform to the house!]] [[Voice from the room: 8 years!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u302	Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has a voice. [[Eight years and 39 billion only in the last year.]] [[A trillion zloty debt...]] [[Somehow you found our savings for the next year.]] [[We're gonna live through this.]] All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u303	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I did not like how you questioned the Prime Minister's statement yesterday, which reminded me of the promise: 500 PLN per child. [[Applause]] I must say that in the evening I received materials from you, the ones you also had here, a leaflet on which it actually says very clearly that it is for every other child and at the income threshold also for the first one. I also have President Andrzej Duda's deal with the people. How will this bill be applied to the particular family, the family I know? 19 is the oldest, the second person in February will be 18 years old, the third person is 16 years old, so in 1.5 years he will become a teenager, and the fourth person is 12 years old. Such a family, which - you can say - is a model family, for only 2 years will be able to obtain 500 PLN. [[If you'd brought it in eight years ago, they'd have had it for ten years.]] This mechanism will not be applied at all. Please take this into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u304	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will not answer all the questions, because some have already been answered by the Minister during his speech. Eva Drozd's question: Why aren't we supporting the middle class? I think it's some kind of qui pro quo. The scheme, which is addressed up from the second child without an income criterion, is supporting the middle class rather than non-supporting the middle class. Mr Wilczyński is asking about reporting from this bill. Well, it's not like we're just going to do this report once every three years, because it's both an article. 3, as well as Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 and 2 talk about producing this reporting more often. Further questions related to single parents and the first child. Well, I'll repeat what the Minister says. The program is so designed that it doesn't discriminate against anyone. The rules for paying the first child benefit are exactly the same for all families. Mr Piontkowski asks whether the service money is sufficient. I think the Minister's explanation is enough here. Mr. Edward Sulphur asks about kindergarten and nursery. Of course, when the family receives an additional 500 PLN, we must realize that suddenly there will not be enough kindergartens and crèches to be able to take care of all the children, so the given family will be able to pay for these services on the market thanks to the fact that they will receive these 500 PLN additionally. I will remind you that in Poland about 20% of children go to private kindergartens, tuition in daycare is also about 1,000. Or 1.2,000. zł. So it helps families activate and helps families make decisions, not make them harder. Ms. Ewa Tomaszewska asks if she understood the purpose of the bill correctly. Of course, yes, the goal - as we say, we repeat - is demographic, the aim is to strengthen human capital and reduce poverty. Joanna Mucha, referring to international experience, says that benefits are paid everywhere from the first child. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in France, which is shown as a model for family policy, the benefit is paid from the second child up to 135 euros, only when the family has two children. So it's not like it's paid everywhere from the first child. The late birth of a child is a matter of civilization, it is a matter of Women's aspirations. It's not like you can do a lot of demographic politics around here. But, as we say, we can encourage those women who have the first child to have the second child. It's really a problem here when it comes to economics, economic incentives, it's about families having a second child. How much money will go to the country? That is what Mr Skurkiewicz asks. Of the 23 billion PLN planned for 2017, the amount that will reach the village is over 11 billion PLN, i.e. almost half of the money that will be paid from this programme will be paid to the village. Does the program discriminate against anyone? You're asking Mr Rozonec. Of course he doesn't discriminate against anyone. 10 times, 100 times you can say he doesn't discriminate against anyone, [[Applause]] But I don't think it still has any special effect. Mr Jaskoła of Kukiz.15 asks about labour costs and issues related to administrative costs. As far as administrative costs are concerned, I understand that the Minister explained that this is 2%. This is such a reasonable compromise between budget possibilities and the expectations of local governments. I'll also go back to what the Minister said yesterday, presenting the program. We are not going to raise labour costs to finance this program, but we are going to tax corporations or financial institutions in the first place more fairly, so that they will share the profit after these 27 years, since they operate in Poland. And as for this fairly unverified argument that in France childhood is caused by the fact that children are mainly born there by Muslims, I refer to the report published in October 2013 by the Energy Foundation for Europe, which says that the French fertility rate, which is 2 for which we would have dreamed, is only 5% for ethnic minorities. In fact, it is not that Muslims influence this fertility rate. How will GDP increase after we introduce 500+? - ask Mrs. Kopcińska. Estimates here are clear, because several banks have published such estimates, among others. PKO BP - 0.5 percentage points. So as we have respect, a row of 3.5 for 2016, this is a very important acceleration of economic growth - 0.5 percentage points. The next question, Mrs Mrzygłocka, concerns social dialogue and consultation. We have consulted this draft law very widely, not only in such a way as is provided for by law, i.e. inter-ministerial consultations, then public consultations and taking only the comments of the partners of the social dialogue councils. We drove around all the voivodships, listened to what the local governments were saying to us, listened to what the people who paid us were saying. Believe me, many of the things that were later included in the final bill were the results of this consultation. We were in all 16 voivodships and, as the Minister assured, soon we will be going to all voivodships to train local governments from this project. Mr Wójcikowski says that the programme is... what happens if we are 10 years from now... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr President, I answer the question. What happens if, in 10 years' time, there is a dramatic demographic crisis? But that's what the 500+ program is for, to prevent it, to prevent this demographic crisis. This is the basic purpose of this program. [[In your assumptions, you show that...]] As regards both child growth and investment in human capital, this is why the programme is and this programme responds to the expectations of Poles. If you have the expectations of Poles who say that they want to have more than two children and have one of the lowest childhood indicators in the world, and then you ask why, they say that it is mainly material issues - this program fits perfectly into these expectations and reduces these fears. Poles before growing a family. So this is the reversal of the reasoning. That's what the program is for, so that this disaster doesn't happen. [[We'll see in two years.]] More lines. Mrs Wróblewska - we will answer in writing on issues related to... However, this does not discriminate in any way and this system works in this way when it comes to a disabled child. How is the farmer's income calculated? - asks Mr Sosnowski. In the same way as in the Family Benefits Act, i.e. the conversion hectare calculated by the Central Statistical Office. Will family-type facilities - Mr Lubczyk asks - be included? Yeah, they'll be included. This is an effect, among others. yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. The bailiff - let me remind you that the bill states that the benefit of 500+ is exempt from execution. Mrs Augustynowska goes back to enumerating how it is actually that the family is going to spend money on a child and then, on the other hand, how it is to define a list of waste or waste of money. As I explained yesterday on the committee, first of all, it's not our goal to tell our families what to spend their money on. We believe they know how to spend it. And it's impossible to define such a closed directory, that e.g. If the family remodels the house or buys better windows to keep it warm, then whether it is, isn't it... We believe in common sense. The same is true of the other side of the coin - we also believe in the common sense of these social services, which are already dealing with families or helping families, that they will know when this waste occurs. You can't actually describe it in any legal act to make it a closed list. To conclude by answering Mr Sobonia's question, the IT system will only need to be updated. It's not gonna be any new IT system. This is the system that municipalities use to pay family benefits. And Mrs Błońska, I apologize if I have turned it. [[It's Blunsky.]] Blenska, I'm sorry. Young people are leaving. Yeah, but they're not just leaving because they want a better paid job, but because these countries of the European Union are competing with benefits. It must be realized that when they go there, they get these benefits, in Germany - 188 euros, in the UK - 20 pounds a week or in Ireland - 135 euros a month. This is also calculated by those Poles who are leaving, and we also need to be aware of this competition. [[But you can do it at the same time.]] As far as Mr Mark Owl's question is concerned - of course, when this program comes in, it is a point that is x. However, I note that all those who will decide on the next offspring have something that they have never had in their lives so far - they are guaranteed that for 18 years from the birth of the child they will receive 500 PLN per month, and it is not so that they will receive it from social assistance, on request, only this money will be dedicated to them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice in the room: Three questions, three questions asked... I can't let it go.]] [[There's no mode.]] [[Voice from the room: The Lord was not mentioned.]] [[Voice from the room: It was not mentioned.]] [[Voice from the courtroom:...on a formal matter, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voice from the hall: I asked a question three times and you didn't answer any of them.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u306	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Many Polish families believe that the 500+ family programme divides children in our country for better and worse, is socially unfair and discriminatory, and it is difficult to disagree with that. According to the program's assumptions, the first child is the key to enabling the family to apply for the benefit and receive 500 PLN. This programme has not yet entered into force, and it already divides children into one family. Children in Polish families already say about themselves: better, worse. What negative psychological effects will this bring to Polish children? How will assistance be implemented for children who are placed in children's homes? Your project ignores in general those children who are in institutional foster care today. Why do you want to hurt those children who are already severely hurt by life again by depriving them of 500 PLN? There are about 30,000 children in children's homes. - to those who are entitled to this benefit as well. I hope you make an amendment, and it's just an oversight. When families are or will they be in financial difficulties - often there is also a bailout - will the benefit they will receive be protected and not subject to such occupations? How will this money be marked so as not to be subject to bailiffs? What total costs will be incurred due to the introduction and running of the programme in the following years, taking into account the increase in the fertility rate assumed by the PiS? Is the possibility to submit online applications envisaged? Will the 500+ family programme be targeted only at Polish citizens? If not, how will the programme cover foreigners and refugees? I would like to ask you to state on the basis of which calculations and analyses, your government has adopted a certain increase in fertility in Poland. This program discriminates against families with one child. Why does the government discriminate against families who, for some reason, often health, age or other random causes, cannot enlarge the family? Why do you not want, as it is all over the world, to take special care of single parents and for those who cross the income threshold, to introduce the rules of the dollar for the gold, which will certainly be a positive incentive to work and to take it? What would be the cost to the budget if you introduced the principle of gold for single parents raising children whose income per person does not exceed 1,300 PLN? What solutions do you provide for single parents with one child whose income slightly exceeds the income criterion proposed by your government? The Minister's statement is a lie, saying that the family will receive a witness for 18 years. In response to my interpellation, I read that she would receive the benefit for 18 years only if her income threshold was below the proposed criterion. If the income is higher, for 18 years they will receive the benefit of those families who have children with multiple pregnancies - twins, triplets. If one child is 10 years old, the other - 3 years old, the family will only receive the benefit for 8 years. So please do not use the wording that misleads the public that the family will receive the benefit for 18 years, because it is not true. I ask you kindly to reply in writing. [[Voice from the room: Hands out of your pocket.]] In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. [[Game in the O.R.]] If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] We proceed to the examination of item 12. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland (print No 166). I ask Mr Tomasz Romekowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u308	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The proposed bill amending the constitution is, in our opinion, the only way out of the constitutional crisis we have right now. This proposal includes five elements. The first element is the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by qualified majority. Two-thirds of the votes. This is the majority needed to amend the Constitution, and at the same time the majority that makes all political environments have to agree to the election of the members of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is so important that we deprive these patches of belonging to the parties, political backgrounds of judges and indeed the Constitutional Tribunal becomes a supra-political, trans-party body, it will actually have the important role played by the constitutional judiciary in every democratic state. Another element is the transfer of the cognition from the Constitutional Tribunal to the Supreme Court to examine the compatibility of the Constitutional Tribunal Act with the Constitution and ratified international agreements. We do not want, ladies and gentlemen, the situation we had last December when the Constitutional Tribunal became a judge in its own case. It is in this exceptional case that the Supreme Court should decide whether the Constitutional Tribunal Act is compatible with the Constitution and ratified international agreements. Another element, very important from the point of view of this crisis caused by the election of three judges by the Sejm of the previous term of office, as well as by the Sejm of the current term of office, of those three judges whose President Rzepliński does not wish to allow for a ruling, which the President has sworn, namely we propose to increase the personal composition of the Constitutional Tribunal from 15 to 18 judges. Another element is the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal by the President from among the three candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the last element that brings together the whole of this change, the change that ends this constitutional crisis and at the same time protects the Polish state from the possibility of repeating such a situation in the future, is the end of the term of office of all judges of the Constitutional Tribunal within 60 days of the entry into force of the proposed constitutional novel. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the reasons? First of all, the situation we have right now can only be compared to the Gordian node, but in this situation we can call it the double Gordian node. The situation cannot be resolved on the basis of an amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act or any other legal action at the statutory level. The only solution to this situation is a constitutional novel. Of course, this problem can be resolved on political grounds, and the High House does not depend on the will of President Rzepliński, we are not able to force the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to include three judges in the formation of the court, nor are we able to force President Andrzej Duda to take the oath of three judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office, and that is a simple explanation: because, according to the Constitution, the Constitutional Tribunal has 15 members, and at the moment 15 judges of the tribunal have taken the oath, and if President Andrzej Duda had taken the oath of three judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term, he would have broken the constitution, and the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal would then have 18, and in no way this constitutional crisis would have been resolved. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a delicate, minor amendment to the basic law. In many speeches, ladies and gentlemen, there are voices that the constitution is a sacred thing. I disagree with that argument. The Constitution is the legal foundation of the Polish state, but the Holy Scripture is a sacred writing and it is not subject to change. [[Applause]] Let us remember that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 1997 has already been amended twice and nothing really prevents this constitutional crisis from being resolved precisely by amending the Constitutional Tribunal rules. As for the comments that appear on this proposal, I would like to propose, if we go to second reading, if it is addressed to the Legislative Committee, I presume, this draft law amending the Constitution, introducing a mechanism to safeguard the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, because this is the most common argument against this proposal, namely that the High House will not collect 2/3 of the votes needed to select judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Our proposal is as follows: if the Sejm does not select by qualified majority within the prescribed time limit 2/3 of the votes will then be elected from among the candidates submitted by the Sejm by the National Judicial Council, as is the case in the case of the general court. This is a fuse to ensure the stability and security of the formation of the ruling Constitutional Tribunal. We do not want to repeat the situation that is taking place in many Western European countries, where sometimes 28 times a vote is taken on the election of a member of the constitutional court. Another element is the issue of composition. There are voices that 18 is an even number, and it would be worth it to have an odd membership. Of course, such a proposal is as much to consider, the members of the Constitutional Tribunal can also be 19, and 21. In our view, this number should be considerably higher than 15, due to the number of cases affecting the Constitutional Court and the number of judges needed to rule on these cases. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to ensure the safety of those judges who are now judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and at the time of the entry into force of this novel, namely the end of the term of office of all judges, to ensure that they are retiring. This is an important thing, which must also be ensured at the second reading stage, so that the resting state is automatically assigned to those judges whose term of office will be interrupted. We don't want to harm the judges in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, moving to conclusions: we are primarily committed to ending this constitutional crisis as soon as possible. And our solution is actually the only substantive solution to this crisis. [[Applause]] There's no other way out than a constitutional novel. There's no other means, and that's what we need to be clear about. If any of you know another legal measure to resolve the constitutional crisis, I will be very pleased to get acquainted with it, but I have not yet heard, although I have been very interested in this subject, unfortunately I have not heard from the Members of the High House how this constitutional crisis could be resolved. An important element in the discussion on the resolution of the constitutional crisis was the previous meeting with representatives of the Venice Commission, where we heard from the president of the Venice Commission that the possible solution to the constitutional crisis was the amendment of the Constitution. And that's a very important argument. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want a calm, substantive discussion about our proposal to get out of the constitutional crisis. In order to resolve this crisis, the agreement of the High House is needed, the agreement of all political groups is needed, so we encourage you to sit down together and think about how to amend the Constitution in order to end this constitutional crisis. We do not care about digging up whose fault it is, who did it first, who broke the standards, who did the first harm to the Polish state, spreading this constitutional crisis. We want this crisis to end. And if you care about that, we ask you very much to take a calm, factual, substantive approach to this problem, to this issue. We want to solve this crisis together. Let us show the public that Parliament, if it has the will to solve an important social problem, is able to mobilise itself. The end of the constitutional crisis is, in our view, a priority for the High House at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u309	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Resumement request.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft parliamentary law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, print No 166. The current constitution has been in force since 1997, it is worth recalling that it has been nearly 20 years. It was actually adopted on a broad consensus basis, of course, but by a parliament that was then dominated by left-wing environments. I think that after 20 years of the Constitution, there is indeed a time to look at constitutional regulations, how they work. It is certainly necessary to have a broad discussion about a possible revision of the Constitution, and at the beginning of the term of office, Marshal Morawiecki spoke about it. We, too, as an environment of law and justice, have talked many times about the need for changes to the constitution. On the other hand, this proposal of the Kukiz15 movement concerns the specific situation and the specific rules contained in the Constitution and refers to the Constitutional Tribunal. Indeed, it is worth recalling the reasons for this initiative. It is worth recalling, because such wordings fall as if we had a constitutional crisis. These are big words, there is no such thing in Poland. There is, of course, a crisis around the Constitutional Court and it is clear that this crisis was triggered by the parliamentary majority of the previous Parliament last June by... [[By the president.]] ...the adoption of the Constitutional Court Act, through the adoption of regulations that allowed the election of not two judges in reserve, but five judges in reserve. [[Nonsense, sir, nonsense.]] This disposition of the bill was carried out by the parliament of the previous term of office, these five judges in reserve were selected and the High Chamber, the Sejm VIII of the term of office, had to correct and correct this error by amending the Act on the Constitutional Court. [[Unconstitutional, unconstitutional.]] [[Unconstitutional.]] Therefore, the current crisis around the Tribunal is the responsibility of the Civic Platform, of course, and secondly, unfortunately, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and some judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who, I remind you, have taken part in the work on the non-constitutional Constitutional Tribunal Act. [[He doesn't believe what he's saying.]] It is not surprising, therefore, that the Constitutional Tribunal, like independence, defends these records. Indeed, it is necessary to agree with the applicants that this situation should not have more space. There should not be such a situation in the future that the tribunal is a judge in its own case, and this was indeed the case in the case of a complaint which was lodged on the constitutionality of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. Thus, these were the reasons behind the initiative of the Kukiz15 movement, the initiative, I would like to stress, supported by Members of the Law and Justice, because it is not that the Law and Justice do not see the problem. This problem is, the problem could and will probably have to be resolved without amending the Constitution, because I do not believe that around the proposal put forward by the Members of the Kukiz Movement15 and Members of Law and Justice, the majority that will be able to adopt this amendment will be able to be built in Parliament. Of course, the solution is very simple, namely that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Constitutional Tribunal will submit to the Constitutional Court Act. Today we hear the announcement of a constitutional violation by President Rzepliński, because the president said that he would not consider... [[Mr President, why don't you say something about the proposal, about the proposal?]] Mr Kropiwnicki, we will come to this, the speeches are ten minutes away. [[Four more minutes.]] So Mr. President Rzepliński... [[Time flies.]] ...had announced the violation of the Constitution and I can say one thing at this point: If the Constitutional Tribunal simply does not settle cases on the basis of new provisions, the amended Constitutional Court Act, then such proceedings of the Constitutional Court will be affected by the defect of annulment. Now I move on to the substance, to the proposals that are included in print 166. Yeah, I think the proposals are going in the right direction. They launch a discussion on how this crisis will be resolved around the Constitutional Court. Until now, the High Chamber has tried to resolve this crisis by amending the Constitutional Court Act, which is simply without amending the basic law. Perhaps, if it is so, that the measures which the High House has taken so far are insufficient, then perhaps the constitution needs to be changed. As the applicant has presented the draft, these proposals go in two directions. One proposal, with which it is difficult to disagree, namely, in the future, we should prevent the Constitutional Tribunal from being a judge in its own case. The proposal that actions against the constitutionality of the Constitutional Tribunal Act should be dealt with by the Supreme Court, I think this is a step in the right direction, all the more so because in many countries, even European, the Supreme Court acts as the Constitutional Court. It's about the choice of judges. This proposal in some way, even though it has been formulated differently than the Law and Justice offer... Law and Justice, let me remind you, has proposed a compromise and has therefore proposed to the High House to discuss whether it could not be so that eight judges of the Constitutional Tribunal would be elected by the opposition, seven by the governing coalition. In order to implement this proposal, it would also be necessary to amend the Constitution, so I hope that this proposal will also be discussed in the committee during the legislative work, but what Kukiz proposes15, i.e. the election of 18 judges by a majority of 2/3 of the votes of the High House, is also a proposal which will force Parliament to compromise, to reach consensus, but in practice it will probably be a political choice, because in the end it will reflect in the elected composition of the Constitutional Tribunal in fact the agreement of forces in the Sejm. Nevertheless, it is worth talking about, and therefore, of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will request that the proposal be submitted for further legislative work. At the same time, I would like to express my hope that the crisis around the Constitutional Tribunal will be resolved without the need to change the Constitution. The key to resolving this crisis lies in the Constitutional Court itself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u311	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Wojciech Wilk from the Civic Platform Club will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset of my statement, referring to the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution, I would like to quote the opinion, which is very accurate, that the amendment of the basic law, which is the highest source of law in the Republic of Poland, should be carried out only if it is not possible to solve the legal problem without amending it. This is the opinion of the National Judicial Council, and the negative opinion of the National Judicial Council, which concerns this particular project. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the constitution cannot be changed under the influence of the moment. Its amendment cannot be the answer to the failure of the ruling majority to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. It cannot be changed in the atmosphere of a political trade fair around one of the most important institutions in our country - the Constitutional Tribunal, because this change concerns the tribunal. It would mean that, first, the Constitutional Tribunal can be blocked, many false things can be said about his work, many false opinions about him, and then hope that a change to the Constitution will be such a wonderful panacea to heal the situation. The Constitution is an anchor, and the safeguards contained therein are about to prevent such situations, so that the institutions whose powers are defined therein do not juggle or change their composition, do not shorten their term of office depending on who is currently in power. Applicants in Article. 2 The proposed law provides that the term of office of the Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected before the date of entry into force of this Act shall expire on the 60th day following its entry into force. New judges will be appointed to their seats. I have a question, ladies and gentlemen: What if these new judges do not want to match the legal solutions to the programme plans of the ruling majority? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is a quote from the explanatory memorandum to the Law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act by Law and Justice. You wrote there that the changes concerning the Constitutional Tribunal are intended to match the legal solutions with the programme objectives. Whether we change the constitution again, we will end the term of the judges without any substantive reason, which is contrary to the Article. 2nd Constitution, which speaks of a democratic legal state? If we don't like the ruling of the tribunal, as in this project, we will break the article. 180 constitutions that guarantee the integrity of judges? We're going to violate the article. 7 and 10 paragraphs. 1 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland? I particularly recommend art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which says that the system of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. Let me stress: division and balance. These are not the only objections to this project. In our view, the proposal that the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should be made by the Sejm by a majority of 2/3 in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members should also be negatively assessed. If a compromise is not reached, which we are all aware of, it will be very difficult, because it is not for this reason that the Law and Justice have taken action to destabilise the Constitutional Tribunal to seek a compromise... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He, he, he. That's good.]] ...if, in the event of the expiry of the term of office of all the judges - I spoke about this for a moment, the article speaks about it. 2 proposed amendments - The Constitutional Tribunal can simply in practice disappear from our legal order. It is good that applicants have noticed this problem and today they have proposed a solution. I hope that we will discuss this in substance. The question is also: What are the reasons for increasing the number of judges to 18? I do not take as sufficient explanations, here a quote from the explanatory statement: to conclude the discussion concerning the three judges of the tribunal elected in the previous term of office. This means that the elected judges will be sworn in by the President on 8 October 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, they should have been sworn in a long time ago and there is no need to change the constitution for this, but it is simply necessary to respect this constitution. [[Applause]] Secondly, according to the amendment proposed by the applicants, their term of office would have expired on the 60th day following the date of entry into force of the proposed amendment and the re-election to the Constitutional Tribunal is, after all, inadmissible. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only part of the comment. This project isn't perfect. After today's statement by the applicant, we have received an answer to one of our questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u313	Thank you very much. Now Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I am very pleased with all these declarations that speak of the will to agree, the will to cooperate, but that we must remember one thing. The current dispute and crisis is primarily a political crisis, not a constitutional crisis. The Constitution is a social agreement concluded by politicians approved by the nation, and as politicians we should abide by it. At a time when politicians do not want to follow it, they are looking for legal loopholes, various tricks to avoid the rules in force, even the most beautiful recipes or written declarations, because politicians will still want to circumvent the rules they commit to. And that is the worst part, with this we have the biggest problem that the President, the current parliamentary majority, does not want to comply with the existing rules. They don't say that it might be worthwhile to change some rules so that they can adjust them to discuss, talk about how to avoid regulations, how to use such tricks to make them feel better. The Constitution, on the other hand, is an agreement that we should all respect. If we want to change it, we should first of all agree that we want to respect the Constitution. If we follow it, then we can talk about changes, because a partial change in the current situation will not bring anything, because we will not solve any problem if there is no political will of the president, of the government, of the parliamentary majority to apply the applicable law or to write a new law, because we can even agree, we will write a new constitution with you, we will make many concessions, compromises, and then the parliamentary majority will do whatever it wants, because you have already given examples that no law is relevant to you. [[Applause]] Today's attempt to hold the President of the Constitutional Tribunal responsible for the crisis is ridiculous because the crisis was caused primarily by PiS politicians, and this must be made clear to itself, not to judges or lawyers, or even to the parliamentary majority of the previous term, because first of all it is necessary to want to apply the existing rules. And now look what you're proposing: the choice of judges by a two-thirds majority. This is possible, of course it can happen, but it can also be so that there will be no Constitutional Court at all. For what will happen if most do not choose? As my previous speaker and Member of the applicant have said, we need to find a way out. Maybe it is the National Judicial Council that chooses whether or not the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court Judges' Assembly elects judges if they are not elected by the Sejm within three months. This is some space to talk about, but first of all, we have to want to keep the constitution. The mere termination of the term of office has no justification, because why should the judges lose their term of office? Or should we shorten their term of office because they don't really like politicians? There's no reason to put out a term. What you are talking about in this project may apply to the next judges - and this is some area for discussion - but there can be no agreement that judges don't like it, because the PiS blames the President of Rzepliński for the constitutional crisis, which is absurd, but such arguments are made, even Mr Ast has just repeated here, and therefore we are kicking all the judges out of work, we will call for new ones. Well, that can't be right. The judges are not to please politicians like one or another, the judges are to apply the constitution because they have vowed to the constitution and are faithful to it, and they must abide by it. Look, it's really the whole art. 2 in this project, i.e. the one who talks about losing the term of the Judges, should not be included in this law at all, because it is the law on amending the Constitution, and in the article. 2 we're talking about something completely different, we're talking about putting out the judges' term of office. This is either in the transitional provisions or in another law, one could include such a provision, but not in the law that talks about amending the constitution. So we're thinking, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the most important thing is the will of politicians to respect the Constitution, not to invent miraculous rules to heal the situation. No recipe will cure the situation miraculously...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u315	Thank you, sir, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u316	I'll finish, Marshal. I'm finishing my sentence, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u317	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u318	I'll just finish my sentence, Marshal. No miracle recipe will cure the situation if politicians do not want to respect the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is drama.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u319	Mr. Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are young Members, and it is not really pleasant to try to reconcile at all costs the troubled parties, which cannot find even a little good will in the matter of the so-called. A constitutional pat. Today we have even abroad involved directly in this, the Venice Commission. Poland is spoken of as a country that loses democracy, a country that has problems inside. It's clear they're here. I am pleased to say that today, in such a concerted attitude, the Member of the Civic Platform has a field or space to talk at all. I would like to point out some important moments in this problem. Well, 18 judges didn't come from outer space. Count it. Maybe we can compromise on the committee. Perhaps it is that we must sit down, talk and perhaps all together, Members of the Republic, representatives, come to consensus and once and for all we will settle the matter. The obvious disadvantage is that a simple majority of judges are elected to represent society. They'll always be political. 2/3 gives the opportunity, even a little bit, to hope that these judges will not be elected by one political party, that there will be a need for consensus on their election as representatives. This so-called, ugly speaking, deadline, or this limit timeline, is to discipline the Sejm too, it is so that, if the Sejm did not decide who would be the judge, the council came into this place, entered into this, I don't know, someone, the Supreme Court came into this competence. It's not about naming, it's about the idea, which is why we strongly encourage it. I hope that the Modern will support us in this. It's not about the rigid record, it's about getting things done, it's about getting Poland out of this pat. I'm not going back to the roots anymore, because we all know how it was, and now these discussions, that it's your fault that it's your fault, it doesn't make any sense. There's a situation today that we have a problem, and that problem we have to deal with. One side denied its ridge, the other one denied its ridge, and now we have to find a solution to make it logical, fair and for the benefit of the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła from the Kukiz club15 has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I always start with the socialists of believers and non-believers, but in order to encourage you, I will answer: caring for the welfare and interests of your own country in which you are sitting. [[Voice from the room: We're sitting.]] We're sitting here. That's a good point. I'm standing, sir. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You'll be sitting down in a minute.]] Allow me to continue. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them later. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the Kukiz movement going to this Parliament with? [[Voice from the room: Unknown.]] [[With JOW.]] With a constitutional change, with the JOWs, with a clear division of the authorities, the three divisions of the authorities, which you are so eager to invoke with errors and which you are so eager to show. As I hear what some Members are saying about a three-part government on the basis of a constitution that does not fully divide it, I will be grayer, no doubt. Such content is in high school, ladies and gentlemen, in high school, that the Polish constitution, which we are currently proceding, is a constitution in which there is no full threefold division of authorities. Who told you that? Journalists? [[Constitutionalists.]] Maybe they're already sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiza movement was on the move. One of the parliamentarians presented a very interesting opinion that the constitution must not be changed so often. I will ask the question: How many times has the Polish constitution been changed? How much was the novel that came into force? [[Twice, two or three.]] Two, that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, is this often? No. Now let's reach for the content. What are we really defending? Because we want to change the constitution. In this constitution... This is where my friend showed on his T-shirt the point of this dispute: entice, penny, red table. [[Applause]] Since 1989, we've been hostages to some sort of deal. Is there a lie in this constitution? Yes. I'm gonna quote her or I'm gonna quote that fake recital. Listen to me, read carefully. For the sake of the existence and future of our Homeland, having regained in 1989 the opportunity to make sovereign and democratic decisions about its fate, us, the Nation, etc. Isn't that right, false? [[Voice from the room: True.]] We regained sovereignty in 1989, or the round-top elites came together and were made... [[But do you question the sovereignty of Poland?]] You know perfectly well that you are now discussing a definition that cannot be classic to modern times. [[But, sir, are you questioning?]] Let's try to finish: Have we regained sovereignty? No. Democratic formation? No, there was a deal. [[Voice from the room: What about the doctor?]] Honestly, it was below the belt, and the fact that we're greeting each other somewhere here in the clowns... Professor Zembala - he's not here - you could ask. Really saying what the doctor says is just embarrassing. Ladies and gentlemen, are these changes beneficial? They're extremely beneficial because they're pouring in between us... You can say that I need a doctor if we all vote for this amendment together. Why? Because she solves a dispute. I see that you're getting all politically excited here, then you're tweeting, some of you are running CODE, Mr. Petru is talking about alimony, and then with a guy who didn't pay his alimony, he's playing a sport called CODE, he's running for democracy. [[That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking here about a certain aspect, we are talking here about you ending the dispute. And this is a constitutional dispute. If anyone can read, they know it's a constitutional dispute. And now that this dispute has stopped and the Venice Commission has said that this is a good solution... [[The Venice Commission didn't say, she'll say in a month.]] ... turns out, ladies and gentlemen, we've found another topic to tweet - 500+. Therefore, I ask you very strongly and request that all clubs consider whether this is not a way out of the situation, but only a temporary one, and that we start working on a new constitution with a threefold division of power, [[Applause]] I don't want anyone to have any more doubts about what constitution it's all about, and I don't think it's crazy that we have it in this one. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk of the Kukiz Club is now speaking15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u324	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think that from this debate, this conversation, the exchange of opinions, it is worth remembering one statement - a good compromise. We as a Kukiz club15 do not hide that we need a change of constitution at all. We need a new constitution, because the one that is, is the worst constitution in our history, which, for example. There is no such thing as a threefold division of power. And that is what we can see from the example of judicial authority. The Constitutional Tribunal is an element of judicial authority. This power should be characterised primarily by two principles: firstly, it should be consistently separated from other authorities, and the legislative authority, and the executive authority, which is not in Poland, and secondly, consistently separated from politics. And that's the way things are. Of course, in principle, we would like the Constitutional Tribunal to function in this new constitution, for example. The Supreme Court, if only in such a way that the judges would be those who have the longest internship in the Supreme Court. This is one example, one of the mechanisms by which judges of the Constitutional Tribunal can be selected in an absolutely apolitical manner and separated from current policy. There are, therefore, target solutions that we should aim for, there is a need to change the constitution, but there is also a current political situation. And the current political situation unfortunately leads to the conclusion that the tribunal in this form did not function properly. It didn't work properly for two main reasons. First of all, because he became a political monolith and there's nothing to argue about, that's what happened. Secondly, because he has taken a very bad practice, because we have heard even from the President of this tribunal that the tribunal is to be guided in the case-law of the state's public finances. And this is absolutely outrageous... [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] ...because that means that the current interest of the current Minister of Finance is not so much a matter of law for such a tribunal. Such a tribunal will not protect citizens from the interests of the government, and just one of the functions, the fundamental functions of judicial authority, is that, among other things. She defended the citizens from the government, from the officials, from their urges. That is why we stress once again, knowing that this is a compromise, but this is a good compromise, this is a common sense solution that we should be able to achieve. I pride myself on it, and I'm proud that my club was the only one who kept a healthy distance to this whole argument and didn't foam, he was just directing constructive proposals. And I hope you will go this way too. I'm asking for your support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's our proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u325	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz from the Modern Club has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What Kukiz proposes together with the Law and Justice is a proposal that is simply obscene. [[Joy in the Chamber]] First, you and Law and Justice have led to this crisis. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs...]] You voted in favour of the first amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, you voted in favour of the appeal of judges elected by the VII Sejm. There is absolutely no need for a change of constitution to resolve this crisis. [[Voice from the room: What do you need?]] In order to resolve this crisis, it is necessary for the President of the Republic to comply with the law. [[Applause]] by taking a vow from three judges... [[Yes, sir.]] ...about which there is no doubt. But you want to change the constitution. [[Where's the place for them? Where's the place for them?]] It does not agree anyway, because 6 million citizens voted for this constitution during the referendum, which you are singers, and it does not agree to change in the atmosphere of conflict. [[Where's room for three judges?]] The piss failed to break the tribunal's bill, so now you want to break it... [[Will they be taken on a ram?]] ...just amending the Constitution. We don't agree to this and we won't accept it, we won't put our hands on it. [[We're gonna bust our legs.]] You want to change the constitution just to justify her earlier breaking. Instead of fixing the tribunal, you want to keep playing it. This amendment will give PiS 100% control over the future of the Constitutional Tribunal. Her party would just be like opening up Pandora's can. The choice of each of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal would now depend on the agreement of the Law and Justice. If this amendment is adopted, no one will be able to become a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal if the President of Jarosław Kaczyński does not agree. And it's gonna be a pathological situation. So I have a question for the representatives of both Law and Justice and Kukiza: Is your aim to bring about a situation in which the current composition of the tribunal will be cancelled after 60 days and the new one will not be elected at all? After all, all you have to do is start a conflict around the jury's candidacy for the Constitutional Tribunal. A year ago, this scenario wouldn't fit in our heads at all. We'd think it was political fiction or some conspiracy theory of history. But today, in the State of Law and Justice, this may be the grim reality that we have come to experience in the event of the adoption of this amendment. In breaking constitutions and legal customs, Law and Justice is indeed a repeat offender. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs...]] Law and Justice have broken every bound of decency. After refusing to take an oath from three judges whose choice there is no doubt that it was executed in accordance with the law... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] ...after an unlawful attempt to dismiss the judges with resolutions and to pass a bill that has actually led to the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal after the Law and Justice as a partner in the constitutional discussion, we can expect actually everything that is the worst. The draft amendment to the Constitution concerns the cancellation of the entire composition of the Constitutional Tribunal and contains numerous errors, and the solutions adopted will certainly not lead to the objectives which you are proposing in this amendment, but will most likely lead to the cancellation of the entire composition of the Constitutional Tribunal and its paralysis. This project has been negatively assessed by a number of legal authorities, by the Supreme Council and the National Judicial Council. First of all, Art. 2 of this amendment, which is about to expire the term of office of the current judges of the Tribunal within 60 days of its entry into force, is a solution which is contrary to the principles of the democratic rule of law derived from the Article. 2 constitutions. This is also a solution contrary to Article. 180 constitutions, which say explicitly that judges are inextricable from their posts. This is the guarantee of their independence and the State is hitting this guarantee. The expiry of the term of office of judges also violates the principle of three divisions of power, because at this point the legislative authority will be able to interfere so strongly with the judiciary that it will remove the judges currently in office. In addition, the expiry of the term of office of all current judges of the Tribunal will also violate the principle of lex retro non agit. According to this principle, the law should not have legal effect in relation to the facts arising before the date of its entry into force. Secondly, the proposed amendment to the rules for the selection of judges, which would be made by a qualified majority of 2/3 in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, is a change in any positive direction - we have twice proposed such a solution - but your solution does not provide for any safeguard mechanism. Our solutions predicted it. This may lead to the fact that the parliamentary majority will simply premeditatedly block the selection of new members of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[He was talking about an amendment to that. I don't think you were listening.]] Thanks to this revision, the PiS won't have to... [[Member, we said...]] But it's not here yet. [[But we can't support it without it.]] There isn't. It's complex, we'll get to know each other, we'll get to the bottom of it. And thanks to this amendment, the PiS simply would not have to take over or eliminate the tribunal, it would have been enough that it simply would not have created a new one. Thirdly, the simultaneous selection of all judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will, for obvious reasons, not be without prejudice to the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. It's gonna hit the citizens again. There will be no continuity in the performance of judicial functions and this will result in the need to re-appointed formations and new time limits for meetings or hearings also in cases which have entered the Court during the previous term of office of the Judges and are already recognised. Fourthly, the National Judicial Board clearly indicates that your project contains a logical error. Why take three additional judges from the Constitutional Tribunal if you're about to remove them? It doesn't make any sense. [[But think about it.]] High Izbo! With the change of constitution Law and Justice and the Kukiz group are racing, but instead of the finish in this race at the end there is a legal chasm from which Polish democracy can simply never come out. In view of the serious risk of attempting to adopt this revision of the Constitution in the absence of I call on the applicants to present a full, precise daily calendar of work on this amendment... [[Then come to the meeting.]] ...so as to minimise the risk that the only groups who will vote on a possible constitutional change will be the law and justice group and the Kukiz group. [[But then come to the meetings, Madam Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment will only deepen the legal crisis. Instead of restoring the rule of law, it strengthens lawlessness. However, the exit from the crisis created by the coalition of PiS and Kukiz around the Constitutional Tribunal, as you know, lies elsewhere - in the acceptance of the oath from three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, of which there is no doubt... [[And there's a line waiting.]] ...and then adopt the new Constitutional Court Act proposed by us, creating a strong, independent Constitutional Court and guaranteeing the apoliticality of the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. That is why we are in favour of rejecting this project at first reading. [[Applause]] [[What we're reporting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u327	Thank you very much. Now Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u328	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Mr Swallow, You have responded very emotionally to your personal attention, and I fully agree with you, but a moment later you gave a speech. even more personal attention to Mr Richard Petru, which was not true. I would like to say that Mr Richard Petru has never expressed positive opinions about people who do not pay alimony, on the contrary, he has repeatedly said that this is a reprehensible action. And I understand that your comment on Mr Richard Petru and his attitude towards alimony was profoundly substantive and concerned the debate on the Constitutional Court. Congratulations on understanding the concept of substance. [[Applause]] And now, Mr Reporter, because I have little time, I am shocked that you are presenting a program that is so profoundly different from your programme. [[The hand, they say, pull it out.]] He's kind of a denial of what you went to the election with. I have learned from many debates with Mr Kukiza - and reading the programme on your websites - that you wanted to take the political parties away and bring them back to the citizens. This proposal, on the other hand, is to strengthen what Paweł Kukiz calls a partyocracy. Why? The choice by a majority of 2/3 Members is really an invitation to deal politically, to make arrangements. But who? Citizens? No, the worst evil, the representatives of the political parties. [[Voice from the room: Can you solve it?]] Why didn't you take the opportunity to propose, for example, that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elect citizens through universal elections? This is your show. Why shouldn't they choose by referendum? [[Applause]] There you go. Where's your show? I mean, I actually believe in your honesty. I remember when this program was created, you were there - because this was how it happened - in the coalition, you fought for the behavior of the head of the CBA of Mr.Paweł Wojtunik, you were hoping to be given to you on the Management Board of the Program 2 of Polish Television and it did not work. [[What does that have to do with the constitution?]] [[Coalition, coalition.]] [[What are you talking about? A little bit of merriment.]] On the other hand, as regards the stability and principles of the rule of law, you often refer to the Supreme Court of the United States. Here, too, you give certain rules, certain things to the Supreme Court's decision. Do you know... [[20 more seconds left.]] ...when was the last time the number of Supreme Court judges changed? I'll remind you that it's nine. Do you know when the Americans last changed that number? You know what I mean? You don't know? [[A hundred years ago, sure.]] In 1869. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo]] And do you know when was the last attempt to change - the attempt, I stress, failed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In 1937. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the Supreme Court judges in the United States are appointed for life and can resign on their own initiative.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u329	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u330	They're irresistible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u331	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u332	And this is a stable state of law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u333	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk now has the floor...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u334	Your offer is a denial. That's why we're filing for... [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki turns off the microphone for Mr Michałów Stasiński]] [[It's not modern, that's why you're fighting like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u335	Again. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland contained in the sejm print No. 166. But if you don't mind, I'm going to start by quoting from the leader of the club who is bringing in the draft Constitutional Amendment Act, Mr. Paweł Kukiz, who said, "I wouldn't want this constitution to be written or changed by Kukiz, except that I couldn't write it. It is not supposed to be the constitution of Jarosław Kaczyński or Grzegorz Schtyna, but a civil constitution - adds Paweł Kukiz. It is a pity that he is not in this Chamber, because at least two significant inconsistencies emerge from this statement in the context of today's project. [[It was about a new constitution.]] First of all, he admits that he couldn't change the constitution... [[But he learned.]] ...and yet it does. He learned quickly, yes, I agree with him. Secondly, he assures us that he will not help President Kaczyński, and today in the best way proves that... [[That's a good change.]] I don't know whether consciously or unconsciously, but it does, according to the motto: where the PiS can't, Kukiz will help. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of Kukiz15, you are on the straight path to PiS. [[Okay, take care of this case.]] And I'm so surprised listening to the PiS today, since that sympathy for changing the constitution. We were expecting your activity, your support, when in the previous term we wanted the legal protection of state forests to be enshrined in the Constitution. Then somehow there was no enthusiasm in you, which is today, and a sympathy for the idea of Kukiz. [[Applause]] [[Unless the bill says otherwise.]] In your statement of reasons, you have stated that the Constitutional Tribunal is a judge in its own case, and that the Constitutional Tribunal is a court of law and not a court of fact. The powers of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be limited to the examination of the compatibility of the contested provisions of the Act with the Constitution or international agreements, the ratification of which required the prior consent expressed in the Act. Really, understand this because you're replicating, you're still going through this wrong argument. The project breaks down, your project violates the principle of exclusive competence in determining the compatibility of legal acts with the Constitution, which is reserved for the Constitutional Tribunal. In the current state of law, and it is also something that exposes this idea of yours, making it really done on the knee, functioning in the bill... there is no law called the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. That's what you should know, because you've been working on the Constitution since the election campaign. On the other hand, in relation to the statement made by the applicant, I would say: if this constitution were such a bad and hostile one, against any civil initiative, would you be sitting in this House today? You wouldn't be here. [[Applause]] So that the first reservation is: the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. And since you put it on the banners in the election campaign, you should at least use the proper name of the constitution, that's what I'm paying attention to. The position of the national judicial board expressed the view that the current situation is not the result of the Constitutional Tribunal's activities, and that the independence and objectivity of the tribunal have been confirmed several times in its rich case law, so why change it by constitution? KRS judges criticize, among others. the provision transferring to the powers of the Supreme Court the ruling on constitutional compliance and the ratified international agreements, the ratification of which required the prior consent of the law, of the provisions issued pursuant to Article. 197 constitutions. As they point out, this provision does not provide for a procedure for proceedings before the Supreme Court in such cases, nor does it specify a circle of persons entitled to initiate such proceedings. Nor does it appear from the draft that the Supreme Court would be required to rule on the compatibility of normative acts with the constitution or international agreements. The proposal to increase the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal to 18 judges should also be critically assessed. In a legal state, it is also, ladies and gentlemen, to consider, it is not permissible to amend the Constitution merely for the purpose of resolving the current political dispute, because it would mean instrumental treatment of the fundamental law, unless that is your objective. We also negatively assess the proposal that the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should be made by the Sejm by a qualified majority of 2/3 in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. It can create multiple perturbations. I will also refer for the second time to the opinion of the national judicial council, which has not left the dry thread on the record of the terms of office of all the current judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at the end of the 60th day following the date of entry into force of the proposed law, i.e. before the end of their term of office. This, in the view of the National Courts of Justice, infringes the lex retro non agit principle, according to which the law should not have legal effect in relation to the facts arising before its entry into force. Moreover, it is not simply a violation of the principle of non-retroactivity, but a violation of the constitutional guarantee of independence of the judge of the Tribunal consisting of his irrevocability during the term of office laid down directly in the Constitution. In a legal state, it is not permissible to amend the Constitution merely to resolve the current political dispute as it would imply instrumental treatment of the fundamental law. This agreement of the Polish People's Party is not available, and therefore we request that the project be rejected at first reading. But using my time, I would like to finally return to the appeal and address President Andrzej Duda. Mr President, you have promised to set up a team within the National Development Council to draw up a new law on the Constitutional Court. I wanted to ask you what happened to the plan, the intentions. In December, you stressed that you were in favour of the opinion of the current President of the Constitutional Tribunal on the need for a debate on the changes to the selection procedure for judges. That's when you mentioned this National Development Council and a team to develop new rules. That is not enough, you said that you wanted to invite representatives of all political parties, former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, legal experts and other stakeholders to the dialogue. It's been two months, Mr. President... [[He's not here.]] ...and these invitations still haven't arrived. [[Invited, sent an invitation.]] What happened to abandoning those plans by making your words unbelievable? We are very cordially appealing to return to these assurances. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u337	Thank you very much. 26 Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list for the question. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. The first question is asked by Mrs Bożena Kamińska from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u338	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the reflection of the applicants I will quote Pope John Paul II, which in the encyclical Centesimus Annus wrote in 1991: The organization of society based on three authorities - legislative, executive and judicial... [[Mr PiS, are you laughing at these words? I don't believe it. I don't believe it.]] ... reflects a realistic vision of the social nature of man... [[Me too.]] ...which requires appropriate legislation to protect everyone's freedom. It is therefore advisable for each authority to be balanced by other authorities and other areas of competence which would maintain it within the appropriate limits. That is the principle of 'the rule of law', in which the supreme authority has the right, not the self-will of men. History teaches that democracy without value is easily transformed into openly or disguised totalitarianism. The amendments proposed by Members of the Constitutional Tribunal to the basic law may lead to the interruption of the continuity of the Constitutional Tribunal's operation. Got it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Question: Why [[♪ The bell ♪]] are applicants seeking to marginalise the Constitutional Tribunal at all costs together with the Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u339	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Daniel Milewski of the Law and Justice Club now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u340	Dear Marshal, The proposal is certainly a way to end the ongoing political accusations, although we still have many steps ahead of us on this path. Surely the proposal to introduce and implement the principle of nemo iudex in causa sua in the Court is one of the more valuable proposals. But the explanatory memorandum states that the President is to take a vow from judges elected by resolutions that have no legal force, and that only so that after the next two months these persons cease to be judges of the tribunal. This is not entirely understandable because the end of the term of office would also include judges elected by the current Sejm. Is it appropriate for these lawyers to retire after a few months of work, because the re-election to the Constitutional Tribunal today and in the light of the proposed constitutional novel is unacceptable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u341	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the draft law on amending the Constitution of Kukiz - and maybe not only Kukiz, I think it is better to say that PiS and his silent coalitionant Kukiz15 - wants to change the constitution with small steps. Maybe it's worth creating one coalition club, and then you won't hide the fact that you're in a quiet coalition? [[You're gonna make it, aren't you? With the platform?]] The proposed amendment to the basic law is another attempt to interfere with the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, you simply want to eliminate the tribunal, because in fact, it will never be elected again. Applicants shall assume by qualified majority the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. 2/3 of the votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of representatives of the Sejm, which means that if the PiS is not in the Chamber, we will never appoint these judges. You're saying that you want this change to stop the TK dispute. The question is, who caused this dispute? You have to answer that question. You have divided, the state, the Polish society [[♪ The bell ♪]] For two camps. Today again, you want to assassinate the tribunal. What about tomorrow? Maybe change the whole... Deputy Marshal Richard Terlecki: Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. ...constitution in the absence of opposition clubs? [[But who divided it into two camps? What are you talking about, man?]] [[Mr. Marshal, your name came up, so I wanted to explain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u343	But the Member did not speak. I didn't just say... [[There are no corrections, of course. But in what mode?]] Please? [[Voice from the room: But in what mode?]] [[Name's up, name's up.]] The Member took part in the discussion. [[So, what's up, groups?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u344	Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know that Modern... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...it takes time before he realizes that the dot is placed after, not before. But what I'm trying to say is, as you say, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Kukiz, it's said "pan" and when you say "group," you say "Kukiz"15. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u345	Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Very nice.]] Removal of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal from their posts before the end of their term of office, as provided for in Article. The 2nd draft of this Act is a move contrary to the Constitution. It provides for the term of office of the current judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, whereas Article. 180 of the Constitution guarantees the irresistibility of judges, and its Article 10 speaks of the three divisions and balance of power in Poland, which according to the article. 2 of the Constitution is a democratic legal state. The expiry of the term of office in accordance with the proposals of the law, i.e. the removal of judges from the tribunal, is a violation of this constitutional guarantee. The proposed solutions give the legislative authority the right to interfere in the sphere of judicial authority. Isn't this another attack on the threefold division of power in Poland? If the Sejm doesn't choose 18 [[♪ The bell ♪]] Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by a majority of 2/3 of the votes, in accordance with the provision you propose...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u347	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u348	...and the term of office of the current judges will expire...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u349	Thank you very much, Member. You've run out of time to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u350	...on the 60th day of the entry into force of the Act, that in practice means...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u351	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u352	...total liquidation of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u353	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is simply not very reliable that the proposal put forward can be effective. If the cause of the current crisis is that the current President and the parliamentary majority do not respect the Constitution and do not respect the judgments of the Tribunal, then - I would like to ask the applicant - what is the guarantee that the next constitution, after the change, and the judgments of the next elected tribunal will be respected by the President and by the parliamentary majority? That's one thing. Secondly, you want to ensure the independence of the tribunal, while you are abolishing one of the main guarantees of independence, i.e. the cadency of the judges. Third, you say 2/3 will provide greater objectivity. Ladies and gentlemen, some of the judges in the current Court have been elected by a majority of 400 votes and 2/3 votes. Nevertheless, their judgments are not respected. And yet you want to fire them before the deadline. They already have these. Two-thirds of the votes, they're apolitical. The key to remedying this situation is, of course, the policy and observance of the Constitution, the observance of judgments. And if we want to [[♪ The bell ♪]] something improved in the Court Act is a way of selecting candidates for judges, so that they are not political persons, so that they are drawn up by legal environments, so that they enjoy the highest authority and recognition of legal circles, because they are from law enforcement, not politics.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform. [[Oh! Krzysiek, I'm taking off my tie, the jokes are over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the level of this project is just like that insulation tape on the desktop. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: What a joke!]] One sentence only as regards the opinion of the National Judicial Council, because such an opinion to the bill... I think that's a very special opinion when it comes to the history of parliamentarianism, it's going to be history for sure. First of all, it must be stressed that the designer has wrongly marked the name of the amended act. In the current legal state there is no law called the Polish Constitution. The correct name of the basic law is: the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. Finally, the content of the statement of reasons for the bill contains contradictory, mutually exclusive wording, e.g. concerning the termination of the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. I know that good intentions of hell are paved, but what if you lead to a situation when the principle of soul scooter is implemented, hell isn't there? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Court will not be able to recognize the Civil Service Act, Internet surveillance or maybe changes to the electoral order...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u357	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u358	...and these adjectives he won't be able to recognize. [[Applause]] [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki shuts down Mr Krzysztof Brejza's microphone]] [[Mr President, you are a Member of the Republic of Poland. Do I always call you that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Wilk from the Civic Platform has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a specific question for Members of the applicants. By virtue of the following Article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1a You wish to transfer, extend the powers of the Supreme Court to rule on constitutional compliance and ratified international agreements, the ratification of which required the prior consent of the Act, of the provisions issued pursuant to Article. 197 constitutions. I would like to ask: What will be the possible procedure for proceedings before the Supreme Court in such cases? What entities will be entitled to initiate such proceedings and in what composition would the Supreme Court have to rule on the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution or international agreements? The answer to this question is not found both in the project and in the justification. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u361	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, is now asking the question. There's no envoy. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, So far, you've won everything, all the votes. This time, ladies and gentlemen, you will lose. We can't support tampering with the constitution because it's a very dangerous game. We should not open discussions about a fundamental law until constitutional order returns to us. We do not agree to the instrumental treatment of the fundamental law, because there is a dispute, and in this dispute we do not intend to mix the constitution. The point is for the tribunal to act smoothly and to control your actions. Now, here's the question. In the proposed act, the simultaneous selection of all judges of the Tribunal will not be without influence on the organisation of the Court's work and the continuity of the judicial functions and will result in the need to re-appointed formations and time limits for meetings or hearings, including in cases which have entered the Court during the previous term of office of the Judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and are already recognized. As you can see, the solution to this issue, bearing in mind that it is also said against this change that the judges elected at different times...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u363	Thank you, sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u364	...have in principle different qualifications. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u365	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot of the Civic Platform Club has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u366	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The solution to this problem would be to respect the Constitution rather than to change it. In this proposal, you want to change the remit of the Constitutional Tribunal and hand them over to the Supreme Court. This is a clear violation of the principle of exclusive competence of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is envisaged in the Constitution precisely to settle such disputes. The exclusion of one category of cases and the transfer to the Supreme Court violates, in my opinion, the concept of constitutional court and seeks to marginalise and weaken the role of the Constitutional Tribunal. Is the purpose of this law precisely to weaken the role of the tribunal? And second question. You have foreseen in this proposal that the appointment of three new judges will not have financial implications for the budget. Therefore, I ask: How? Will these judges be in practice? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or some kind of internship? [[Internship, sir!]] Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u367	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Osos from the Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Marek Wójcik also from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u368	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the beginning of the term of office, the Law and Justice Club has been doing its utmost to paralyze the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. Moreover, the Kukiz15 club has been willing to assist in this jump to the Constitutional Tribunal in recent weeks. Therefore, today all the assurances made by applicants that this bill is to resolve the crisis around the Constitutional Tribunal sounds extremely incredible. [[Look who's talking. Someone who broke the constitution.]] Moreover, it is not only unbelievable, but - even if we look at this project - it is even hypocritical of you. In order for this discussion to take place at all, it was necessary to collect several dozen signatures from Members of the Law and Justice. This is not an attempt to bring about any compromise. This is an attempt to jump and decisively destroy the Constitutional Tribunal, to bring the Constitutional Tribunal to its cutting together with the Law and Justice. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the applicants: What will happen if the Sejm, after possible entry into force of the law, cannot obtain the right majority to choose [[♪ The bell ♪]] the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and, on the other hand, the provision drawn up by you by law will put out the mandates of all current judges? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u370	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to ask the rapporteur: Why do the Members of the applicant, with such contempt and disregard, refer to the legislation of the highest rank and already use the abbreviation of the Republic of Poland in the title? [[Applause]] Do you not think that making changes to the Constitution to meet the expectations of only one environment and only for the current policy will mean instrumental treatment of the fundamental law? If the rulers wanted to solve the problem, there were no obstacles. After all, it was possible to correct the error of the predecessors. You can't break the law to the end and tell the public that the constitution needs to be changed now. The problem is, this change isn't gonna solve anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u371	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! The amendment of the basic law requires public consultation. Where the change concerns the system of the Constitutional Tribunal as a body upholding the Constitution, it requires extensive public debate, particularly in the voice of the legal and scientific community. On the basis of the amendment proposed in Article. 1 draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland I ask the applicants: How could the procedure of proceedings be conducted before the Supreme Court? What circle of actors would be entitled to initiate such an action? In what composition could the Supreme Court rule on the compatibility of normative acts with the Constitution or international agreements? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u373	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Łukasz Schreiber, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us be clear: first we had the seat of the Platform of the Constitutional Tribunal in the previous term, then there were tours of the media of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, the authority of this tribunal is already tarnished and today we need to find a way out of the situation. This project, this idea, as well as the earlier idea of Law and Justice, is an attempt to get out of the wedge. You reject this test, and you also have an interesting attitude towards math. When you have two-thirds of your elected judges in the Constitutional Tribunal, you hear and say... [[Because of us, we chose the majority.]] ...that this is an assassination attempt on democracy. When today it is proposed that two-thirds of this Seym be chosen... [[But we voted together, most of the squad was elected together.]] ...Judges of the Constitutional Court, we hear that the PiS is to own the Constitutional Tribunal. It was about different things, it was about tape, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was even an encyclical quoted, but there wasn't one: there wasn't any idea on your part...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u375	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u376	...how to solve this constitutional wedge. [[Adherence to the Constitution for now.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u377	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with the applicants that the Constitutional Tribunal has become a tool for political struggle between the largest parties. However, the proposals put forward by you in the Act are a creative development of this thought, as they are very instrumental in treating the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal. The applicants explicitly acknowledge in their statement that the draft law is an instrument to bring an end to the current dispute. The natural question arises: Does the instrumental treatment of the Constitution not infringe the provisions of the Article. 235 basic law, in which the principles of amending the Constitution are quite precisely defined in such a way as to counteract changes that are rash, thoughtless, subject to current political needs, as in this case? The second issue, which is also very surprising, concerns the provisions of the amendment, which would have resulted in the expiry of the current term of office of the Judges, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and also in an extremely fast way, because within 60 days of the date of adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u379	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u380	Is that acceptable? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u381	Now the question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder why so much naivety in the Kukiz club15 to play with PiS - a really good player and player. You're in a lost position, you're gonna lose. There is no idea to secure a situation in which 18 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will not be elected through these actions. The Court will cease to function at all because it is enough to block the choice by the PiS, and the tribunal does not exist, as the Law and Justice are probably dreaming of. I would like to remind you that it is also a kind of fraud to blame only and only on the error of the Platform. In 2007 the Law and Justice Act was almost at its conclusion, which demolished the Constitutional Tribunal just as you repeated it in this amendment. On the same terms, your president was supposed to be elected president, there was supposed to be a ruling. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in order. All these things have been prepared. The Constitutional Tribunal simply doesn't suit you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u383	Thank you, sir. The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club. [[Finally, I'm happy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm here about sanctity. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Ha, ha, ha.]] Well, I wanted to say that the sacred book of Polish democracy is the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, not the Bible. I would like to ask the following question: Why are you questioning the already strained foundations of Polish democracy? [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha, what a cannon.]] [[Speech outside the microphone]] [[Gentlemen, it's really not right, it's not right. You're here for the first term, not fit.]] [[And you, if you're second, maybe?]] [[I'm the third. I'm defending an MP who was just performing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u385	Now the question is asked by Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The current paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal was only the tip of the iceberg. Today we know the true intention in all splendor. Today we know that you want to continue to violate the law, continue to ridicule fundamental constitutional principles, and that is really unacceptable. The justification for the project states that the proposed solutions will lead to the conclusion of a dispute between the people and two opposing camps. However, the project presented primarily goes into dispute with the constitution itself. As has already been said many times, it is not possible to amend the existing constitution in order to resolve a political dispute. The Constitution, which is the law in force, cannot be so instrumentally abused. It's good for her to be serious. The expiry of the term of office of the current tribunal is primarily a violation of the principle of democratic state and the principle of separateness, as well as the independence of judicial authority. It can be said with success that when the legislative authority plans to expire the term of office of the judges in office, there is a violation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the division and balance of the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitution doesn't need change, the constitution is fine, we just need to comply with the rules in force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u387	Thank you, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. [[Where is Mr Terlecki?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Where is Mr Terlecki?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In 2015, not yet a Member of Kukiz,15, said that they had only one purpose and that the aim was to change the constitution. I'm just sitting here wondering where you are. If this is your only political purpose to change the constitution, then why is Kukiz15 sitting here with maybe 5? I don't get it. [[Where's your leader?]] The second thing, you said, Paweł Kukiz also said, that the first objective would be to change the constitution in the relation of power - the citizen. If that's the way it's supposed to be, then why the change? My question, substantively referring to what you are presenting, is this. According to Art. 3 draft law is to enter into force on the date of publication, but this matter is of a systemic nature, and its importance for the smooth operation of the only constitutional court and the consequences for citizens are sufficient [[♪ The bell ♪]] important that it was the legislator's duty to introduce even an extended period of vacathio legis. Why are you in such a hurry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u389	Thank you, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u390	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to the debate on fixing the Constitution and proposals for solutions to the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, I cannot resist the impression that it is a Kukiz group15 to eliminate the last obstacle of the Constitutional Tribunal on the way to the PiS dictatorship. Now we have a dictatorship, and then there will be a dictatorship by Jarosław Kaczyński. Is that what this is about? I'm asking what happens if the judges expire their mandates and the Sejm fails to choose a mandate according to your proposal. And the second question I am asking is through the Seym to President Duda: When will you finally take the oath from three legally elected judges? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u391	The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll refer to my predecessor's statement. There will be a great deal in my joint speech, because I want to say to the applicants and the High House that it is not a constitutional change that is needed to resolve the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. We do not need to resolve the Constitutional Court in order to put an end to the dispute around this important judicial institution. It is enough that President Andrzej Duda will abide by the law and take an oath from three judges elected on 8 October 2015. Thus, the President did not do so, to a democratic state, to Poland, which lies in the middle of Europe, the Venice Commission is coming to settle the dispute around our tribunal. She barely left to prepare a report and has already announced a re-arrival to deal with the Law and Justice of Surveillance which violates the fundamental rights of Poles, because Law and Justice gave the services all tools of direct access to [[♪ The bell ♪]] important, private data of Poles. The project isn't very expressive, so I have a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u393	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u394	...in what manner is the Supreme Court to rule and which chamber of the Supreme Court to rule on the Constitutional Tribunal Act. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very nice.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u395	Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, a PiS club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u396	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate, and in general this project, could be an opportunity to talk together about how to come out of the constitutional crisis together. Unfortunately for you, some of you of the opposition, it has become an opportunity to go back to this album from November and December and talk again about the assassination of the tribunal, and so that, in fact, Mr Brejza and Mr Kropiwnicki can sit back in the first place to restore that atmosphere. I'm sorry. Some Members of the opposition asked specific questions, most of them focused on returning to the same rhetoric two months ago. I have two specific questions for the rapporteur. The first point: 2/3, this majority, it also happens in other European countries, one such country is the Federal Republic of Germany. The question is, are there still countries in Europe outside the Federal Republic of Germany, where... [[But there is a completely different, completely different tribunal there, sir.]] ...such qualified majority, perhaps not at 2/3, but at a different level of qualified majority, are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Mr. President, you will read...]] And question number two: Is this the majority here...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u397	Thank you, sir. Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: ...on a minimum of three candidates... Thank you very much, sir. You're out of time. Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: ...to a position to be sworn in by the president... The question you are asking is... Member Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk: ...there's a minimum of three candidates... [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki turns off the microphone by Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk]] Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Don't worry, we're working on a new constitution, but first we need to clean up the mess that caused the Civic Platform... [[Follow the constitution first.]] ...a few months ago. [[Applause]] I'm also amazed at the attitude of PSL. First he complains that PiS has absolute power, that only a few percent chose them. And today, when we, the Kukiz club, 15, give them the opportunity to co-decide, to co-operate with these judges, they say it's a bad proposition. [[Mostly 2/3. Well, Mr...]] No, it's bad, it's too much. Is 2/3 bad? 50% Is it bad? [[Mr Wake up.]] Maybe you want it to be 3%? That's when you'd choose for yourselves. Maybe that's it. [[Applause]] I have a question for the rapporteur: Will this project solve the current crisis caused by the Civic Platform, PSL and later by Law and Justice? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[It wasn't necessary at the end. It was going well, but the ending wasn't good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u399	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The question will be answered by the representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Romankowski. [[And I've already applauded him.]] [[Voice from the room: Young man, also...]] [[The voice from the hall: I had so much, and so it was different...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wrote down some of the questions I heard, because the rest of the speeches weren't questions, but rather parliamentary statements. The questions were repeated. It is worth noting first of all that the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in parliamentary practice so far was part of these benefits, of the majority of them. And that's always been the case. And we, by introducing this majority 2/3, want to reverse this situation, i.e. so that the majority that creates the government does not have this addition in the form of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, only that it is a 2/3 majority, i.e. one which no political group has yet achieved, so that the majority decides on the choice of judges of the Tribunal. With regard to the observations made by the National Judicial Council, I am a member of the National Judicial Council and have participated in discussions on this subject. The main charge for this project submitted by our club is the security of choice, i.e. whether these 2/3 of the votes of the High House will be in the selection process. But I had the impression, listening to your questions, that you did not listen at all, how I presented this proposal, together with the information about what we wanted to introduce in the second reading, namely this safeguard mechanism, saying that in a situation where the High House would not select the judges within the prescribed time limit by qualified majority. Two thirds of the votes, then the competent authority which will make this choice from among the candidates put forward by the Members, will be the National Courts Council. And with the choice, and with the seat seat of the Constitutional Court, there will be absolutely no problem. It is important that ladies and gentlemen have the will in themselves, the will, the goodwill, that we sit at the table at second reading already in the Legislative Commission and decide how to adapt this proposal so that all political groups are willing to support this proposal. This is the starting point. That is why I am very surprised at some very emotional, even malicious speeches. Our goal is above all to end this conflict. Our aim is to ensure that the Constitutional Tribunal can function properly. The Constitutional Tribunal is needed by the Polish State. Some of you accused our group that we were the perpetrators of the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. Remember: from this point on, I, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, opposed the amendment of the December Constitutional Court Act. We were against it. We support the functioning and proper role of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland. That is why I am surprised at this attitude of the ladies and gentlemen of the House. [[It's not what she wrote.]] More questions. About... Because it was a common question that came up about the procedure before the Supreme Court. Ladies and gentlemen, at the level of the basic law, at the level of the Constitution, such issues cannot be determined. This is a matter to be determined already at the statutory level, the issue of procedures, applications, rulings, compositions of chambers. This is a matter at the statutory level, which should also be established. The Court does not actually function. You said that our solution would make the tribunal not work. Ladies and gentlemen, the tribunal is not functioning at the moment, and our solution is the only way to restore the proper state, i.e. one in which the tribunal will be able to exercise its proper role, which the Constitution gives it. I am therefore very surprised that this initiative is aimed at destroying the Constitutional Tribunal. Some speeches... [[But all you have to do is follow the Constitution.]] But how do we respect the Constitution, Mrs President? [[Just follow the Constitution.]] [[Normal.]] But what do you mean by that, Member? [[The president should take the oath and be done.]] Oh, well, that's what I'm gonna say, and I'm gonna take those comments from you right now. We have 15 judges from the Constitutional Court. Okay? Okay. [[Voices from the room: No.]] And how many judges do we have according to the letter of the Constitution? [[Permissible? But the chosen or the permitted to adjudicate? 12 judges.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u401	Mr President, do not discuss with the Members in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u402	Okay, I'm sorry, Marshal. We're done here. [[I'll talk to you later.]] As for the rush, because there was also a charge that we were doing it in a big hurry, we really, ladies and gentlemen, do not do it in a big hurry. The project was submitted in December. We have, thank God, February 10th, so it's been quite a while since we put this project together. We hope that, during the calm, factual, unemotional, I hope, work during the second reading in the committee, we will come to a consensus that will allow us to adopt this revision of the Constitution at the third reading stage. I am personally opposed to haste, emotion. We want us to come to a consensus, a consensus at this stage. We need the Constitutional Tribunal. If you want the Constitutional Tribunal to function so that it can rule, examine the compatibility of the law in the High House with the Constitution and the ratified international agreements, then sit down with us at the table. If you do not wish to vote in favour of moving to second reading at the moment, we ask you to abstain at least. At least give us a chance to discuss this further. I don't understand your question. And basically This is a question to the people who led to me: Why can't we change the constitution? Because you are saying that the Constitution should not be changed and that two amendments have been made to the Constitution so far. So I don't understand the claim that you can't change the constitution if you need it and you need it. [[There isn't.]] And this is also what the Venice Commission said, which you are referring to as authority. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't laugh, sir. [[I'm sorry.]] Please understand that. There is a need and it is a very important need. The Constitutional Tribunal does not function and we must heal this situation. [[Voice from the room: Mouse?]] There was a question about other European countries, where a similar majority to this qualified majority 2/3 occurs. I can still think of Hungary, apart from the Federal Republic of Germany, as a country where there is such a qualified majority. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Oh, as always.]] Of course, I suspect that in many other countries such a majority also functions. So much for the questions from the country I've written down. [[And the lack of financial consequences?]] I would also like to add that, in addition to the members of the Kukiz Club15 and the Law and Justice Club, he has given his support here and signed our project, also the Member of the Modern Club, for which I thank you very much. [[Which one?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Which Modern Member?]] [[Voice from the gym: I think they threw him out.]] [[But I'm sure you know, since you're...]] [[The list is here, it's all there.]] [[But you can ask, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u403	The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government bill amending the Family and Care Code Act (prints No 164 and 210). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Family and Care Code, prints No 164 and 210. The Extraordinary Commission for Codification Changes after considering this draft law at its meeting on 28 January 2016 requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Let me remind you that the committee has added a transitional provision in the article. 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u405	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose an amendment to this draft law, namely that the article be repealed. 2. I'll quote it. I'll remind you of the article. 2. This is a transitional provision which provides that, in matters concerning parental authority, initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Law, the provision of Article shall apply. 112 Act as amended by Art. 1, in the current version. High Izbo! This transitional provision raises certain controversy because of the fact that in family courts in Poland such cases are already taking place. If a transitional rule were to be followed that the procedural provisions were not amended in the course of the change of substantive law, this would lead to such a situation that, at the end of the day, other evidence was collected before the court of first instance, the court of second instance could be amended, a reformative order could be issued, but this could cause such a situation that there would be insufficient evidence. Therefore, the courts of the second instance or the courts of first instance in cases which did not end with a judgment at the time of the entry into force of this law, and the vacathio legis, I will remind you, is here 30 days from the date of the announcement, will have to do so, with the repeal of this transitional provision, in order to apply these new provisions directly, more favourable not to have a child placed in foster care against the will of parents solely because of poverty. Therefore, in the opinion of the club I represent, it is necessary to repeal this transitional provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u407	Thank you very much, sir. Now you will be speaking with Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club on the opinion on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act. Any form of supporting the safe childhood of our small citizens deserves our special interest. Previous article. 112 § 1 of the Family and caring Code as follows: The child should be placed in foster care after all forms of assistance have been exhausted for the parents of the child, in conjunction with the article. 109 § Paragraph 2 (1) (4) sufficiently protects minors from the risk of separation from the natural family due to poverty. However, not all servants interpret this provision in this way. There are situations where courts rule differently. And while there are few situations like this, there should not be any case in which a family has been separated because of poverty. More separation is threatened by families defined, often too hastily, as helpless families in caring and householding matters. According to the explanatory memorandum submitted by the applicants, this may apply, on the basis of data from the Central Statistical Office, approx. 227,000. families. The statement that the family is helpless in caring and upbringing is a statement of a very general and subjective interpretation of the law by the relevant services. Putting a child in foster care is a failure of family support activities by people who pay for specific actions. These people should also take some form of responsibility for their assignment. Of course, there are cases where you absolutely need to take a child from a natural family, but these should be emergency situations where the child's health or life is at risk. In any other case, society and the state, through their institutions, should not allow this to happen. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club supports the proposal to amend the Family and Care Code Act as proposed by the applicant, recognising the fact that the clarification of the rules will eliminate social pathology, which we regard as placing children in foster care against the will of parents because of poverty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u409	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Wilk from the Kukiz club15 will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We are very pleased as representatives of the club of freedom and conservative at the same time that there is an amendment that aims to heal the pathological situation in which children are taken away, and this is really perceived on a mass scale in Poland. This is really a stain on the honor of this country. An honorable stain, which is that children are taken from the care of their parents, families under the care of the officials. This is absolutely not the way it's supposed to be. This is one of the manifestations of the disease of the nursing state, which consistently destroys the family, which, in fact, weakens children, completely deprives the family of the desire to have children, which we all talked about for so long yesterday, which we all thought so deeply about. But there is one problem. High Izbo, this amendment also opens up, unfortunately, the possibility of taking children away for other reasons, because adding an indication, putting in a completely new condition, the possibility of endangering the child's well-being as an indication in which the child can be given away from foster care, in fact extends the catalogue of possibilities when children can be taken away from their parents. Taking advantage of this opportunity that there is a discussion on this subject and it is possible to change this provision, this unfortunate provision, which many times allows, as I said, to state children under any pretext, even under the pretext of this proverbial spanking, we are proposing an amendment. We are proposing an amendment that very precisely clarifies situations where it is possible in absolutely exceptional and specific cases to take children. This amendment boils down to the fact that we allow this possibility. We would like this possibility to be allowed only if there is a real and immediate threat to the life of a child. This is really the only premise, the only basis you can imagine in which you should, I say, by way of an absolute exception, allow a situation when a child is taken away from parents. All other pretexts, all other grounds should fall away, because even the most inefficient parent is always better than an official. We need to be aware of that. This is an element, ladies and gentlemen, of building up, of trying to rebuild the strength of the family. Finally, we need to realise that if we want strong families, families where parents want to have children in which they want to raise children in whom they want to have many children, we need to give to these families both the values they have in mind when raising their children and we need to give their income back to them, we need to give them all the fundamental decisions that are about raising their children. We cannot allow the government in subsequent amendments to extend the scope of government interference, civil servants in the lives of families, how to raise children, what values to pass on to them, how to shape them as people. So, once again, only in the case of absolute exceptions, in absolutely extreme and extreme situations should there be an opportunity, and this is temporary, to take children away from parents. So, High Izbo, we are directing this amendment. We hope that this amendment will be taken into account, and then, taking into account what the applicants want - that the situations in which the child is being taken away because of poverty are unacceptable - we will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u411	Thank you. Now you will be speaking with Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poverty - Is it really enough to take children away? Many times from this speaker it was said that of course not. Is it really supposed to be? Absolutely not. If only material poverty would be the reason to take the baby, that's it. In fact, the failure of the welfare system of the state, because the state is to uphold the good of the family, primarily in terms of the safety of the living. Which family court judge ordered the child to be placed in foster care solely because of poverty? If you look at the files of cases referred to by the Ministry of Justice, I guarantee that the case would be more complicated and ambiguous. In response to our inquiry, the Ombudsman said that in 2015 he did not have a single complaint concerning the withdrawal of the child because of poverty, but he was concerned about 61 applications, of which Minister Ziobro spoke - 61 children were received, 61 such cases. Then the child's spokesperson asked to collect the files of these cases in order to take a look at them. For the moment, from what we know, also on the basis of information obtained from the Ombudsman, the case is in the process of proceeding. We're waiting for information. The project is not really going to change much about the judges' actions. Well, I also obtained information from the district help centers of the family, social assistance centers and reached the report of NIK in October 2015 - this information confirms that material problems are not the only factor determining the need to separate the child from biological parents, and they are certainly not a determining factor. The courts intervened in parental matters in cases of multiple-problem families, where negative phenomena accumulated, thereby creating an environment threatening the child's demoralization, or could actually decide about the risk of his life. The multiplicity of dysfunctional families and the accumulation of adverse events have a clear negative impact on the effectiveness and sustainability of the aid provided by social assistance centres, sometimes destroying them. Let me stress once again that taking a child is a last resort, and it happens when no remedies have the expected effect. There is a need to make assistance to dysfunctional families more effective. In the package of social assistance tools, it is important not just material and financial aid. There is far too little attention to be paid to economic education, educational support and care for the proper performance of social roles by members of the problem family. Without this education, the beneficiaries of social assistance receive the proverbial fish instead of the fishing rod and the ability to use it. The main problem is the reluctance of dysfunctional families to cooperate, the passive expectation of ad hoc assistance transferring responsibility for the family to state institutions, the lack of sufficient funding and the lack of support available by other institutions involved in the process of supporting dysfunctional families. The dysfunctional family often has a claim attitude, often directed solely at the fact that I am entitled to the expectation that you will help me. He doesn't think he has to give something out of himself, create better conditions, he just thinks it's my job to do it. Many institutions share the view that family assistants were really much more effective than social workers were in the role of supporting the family, because their main goal was to say, "No, you don't deserve it, but look - you have to make fees, you have to go to an interview. Do you remember buying a new pair of shoes for a child? Have you been to social services? Have you been to the employment office? These people really need this very basic help. It is worth noting that the best environment for raising a child is his biological family, and love and care are fundamental to the child's development and life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An emotional family. So the task of the state institution is to support a dysfunctional family so that on the basis of proper family ties...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u413	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u414	...has managed to overcome the risks of pauperisation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u415	Madame, you've run out of time. Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas from the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u416	Bottom line, we are in favour of this bill, but it doesn't really change anything in children's living conditions... [[Mr Elisabeth Stępień speaks with the microphone off]] ...does not introduce any new solutions or give new tools to counter... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u417	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u418	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present an opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act, print No 164 and 210. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be pointed out at the outset that the construction of the standard in the form referred to in prints 164 and 210 leaves much to be desired. In the first place, I pay attention to the expression in particular, which was used in the second sentence of the paragraph. 1. In fact, the catalogue of reasons considered sufficient by the legislator and related to the welfare of the child, under the conditions of the first sentence of that paragraph, will result in the taking away of the child and placing him in one of the forms of foster care. Continuing this thread, I would like to point out that this type of construction may cause abuse in connection with the open catalogue of risks of the child's well-being by the use of the expression in particular. Second, in my view, it requires what form of foster care such a young man could be covered. My proposal to take care of the matter lies in the gradation of forms of foster care, starting with the most family-friendly ones, i.e. foster family, then a family home of a child, ending up in nursing homes. In the event of an emergency which may arise in connection with the implementation of the provisions of the paragraph, it appears to be possible. 1 the proposed change, such a course of action is right, and the home of the child should be the last resort. The same is true of the case in the mouth. 2 in a situation where parents want to give the child away themselves. The standard should provide for the priority of placing the child in the most family forms of foster care. Next, I would like to draw attention to the problems of interpretation with no definition of the legal concept of poverty. Against this background the following dilemmas appear. First of all, how do you understand the term "poverty"? Second, is this the right criterion for determining the content of the standard? The answer to both questions is negative. For the right determination, the term "minimum existence" or "social minimum" should be used as measurable indicators. As an example of a lack of identification and interpretation problems, one can point out the very justification for the project in which the applicant uses data from the Warsaw and Warsaw-Praska appeals for the period from 1 November 2013 to 31 August 2014, from which we learn about the basis of the application of the foster care measure and from which in 2 cases the sole reason for placing children outside the family was economic considerations, in 37 cases the sole reason for placing children outside the family was so-called. In 20 cases, the sole reason for placing children outside the family was the economic and inefficiencies of the parents' lives. The analysis of cases reported to the Support Phone makes it possible to draw conclusions on the most common causes of rash, unjustified withdrawal of children to parents and the main systemic problems that arise from these practices. About 70% Parents who go to the foundation are parents who are faced with actions to limit or take away parental rights for economic and social reasons, most of whom are: low material status, poverty of the family - the charge against these parents is that they do not meet the needs of their children - poor housing conditions, i.e. too little space or low standard, sudden loss of residence, parental unemployment, job loss, social exclusion, lack of access to institutional support, information and services. All this makes it necessary, ladies and gentlemen, for the criterion of poverty to be fundamentally remodeled into a measuring measure and objectively recognised as normative in the context of the paragraph. 1 standard of Article. 112. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u419	Thank you very much. Six Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[Voice from the room: One and a half.]] Here you are, Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u420	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Only in the first half of 2015, there were 61 cases of child withdrawal due to poverty. These results clearly show that there is a need for changes that must prevent the courts from interfering with parental authority in a hasty manner. I would therefore like to ask: What is hidden under the term "helpless families" in matters of caring and household care? What kind of families are we talking about? What are the criteria for being helpless in caring and upbringing matters or not? What forms of judicial interference with parental authority is permitted by the Act? Since the established records refer to helpless families in caring and household matters, there are many issues that need to be clarified in detail. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have presented my questions. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u421	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u422	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem of taking children from natural families, from biological families, is a very common reason for visiting people in parliamentary offices. They often also concern issues that are ongoing in the system, I would say, cross-border, i.e. The sentence passed outside the country, one of the parents is a citizen of a foreign country, sometimes it is an EU country, sometimes outside the Union, while the child came to Poland. I have a question: What if in such a situation, if in the country where this child was born, is his citizen, he is also a Polish citizen... In this case, will these rules make it easier, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wouldn't they make it easier to keep this baby in the family? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u423	Thank you. The question is asked by Barbara Bartus, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that we are already in the middle of the second reading of the law, which is to put an end to the taking away of parents because of poverty or the fact that parents are simply not doing well in some way, although these children love very much. Minister, you've often heard of situations like this when a child was being taken away from his parents by a court decision. Unfortunately, we, as parliamentarians, could not intervene in these matters because the courts are independent, we have often heard this, so once again this expression of joy that this law puts an end to it. I have a question: Minister, how many such judicial decisions were there, that, for no reason, because of poverty or some lack of help from parents, these children were taken from their families on the basis of judicial decisions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ones who weren't doing well? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u425	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u426	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The Supreme Court's position proposes that this catalogue be extended immediately when it is necessary to provide the child with a replacement care immediately in order to remove the danger to the child's psyche. I would like to ask the Minister's representative: Do you also understand this threat of psyche in the health category, or do you simply reject this proposal? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u427	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u428	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for this draft law on amending the Family and Care Code Act, so much needed by Polish families. We witnessed many tragedies when parents were taken away because of poverty, children from homes full of love, children with very strong family ties. This action could be called a disease of the welfare state. According to the Central Statistical Office data, 724 thousand. families, i.e. almost 2 million people, are people at risk of poverty, and I am very happy that there is a 500+ family programme, a state aid scheme for raising children, because it will ideally protect against this situation, the situation of taking children away from parents because of poverty. I want to ask you if this bill will actually provide [[♪ The bell ♪]] Inability to take children away from families because of poverty? Are you sure there won't be any more security ties? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u429	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's another bill that makes good changes. After the bill that we were investigating today, which we were talking about yesterday - a change of the family and caring code and, above all, a change of the article. 112 is the essence of this project. The court must consider all aspects relevant to such a restrictive decision when it finally decides to take the child away from the family. I wanted to ask the Minister: How does the Ministry plan to monitor the implementation of this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u431	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The revision of the code rules requires a mandatory opinion of the National Judicial Council... [[Voice from the courtroom.]] ... The court, I apologize, which has not been obtained by this law. Moreover, Law and Justice deliberately violates the law in this regard by rejecting during the deliberations of the extraordinary codification committee the request of the National Council of Judicial Affairs and the opposition to postpone the proceedings and to seek this mandatory opinion. Why? Why is this happening? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u433	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Łukasz Piebiak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to questions and concerns raised by your Members... Maybe first: as far as amendments are concerned, they require referral to the subcommittee. I will simply point out that the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the Government, supports the amendment tabled by the rapporteur and does not support the amendment tabled by Mr Wolf of the Kukiz Club15. But we're gonna be deliberating on the committee over the amendments. Therefore, it is probably unnecessary to refer at this time to this form of parliamentary speeches. About the questions... Because it is the duty of the Minister of Justice to address the questions that have been raised here on behalf of the government. As far as Mrs Sobecka's question is concerned about the family of an incompetent person, a helpless person, I am merely pointing out that there may have been some misunderstanding, because the text of the bill in our submission does not use any such or similar concepts. They can, of course, be in the justification of the bill and you can wonder if the justification of the bill is ideal, whether it might be better, but I note that what we are discussing, or the text of the bill, does not use such concepts. It is only in this way that I could at this point - because we are voting on a normative text - that I would like to address this question by the Member. With regard to the issues raised by Mr Wojciechowski concerning increasingly frequent marriages - and therefore children born in relationships between them - Polish citizens with foreigners from the EU and non-EU area, the text of the Government's submission concerning this change which we want to obtain does not correspond in any way to the Hague Convention on abductions which regulates these things. So it's hard to tell if it's gonna affect... It seems that these are two completely different legal orders: what else is the abduction of a child, the drama associated with this fact, bringing this child to Poland when it is necessary to apply the convention, and what else is putting the child in foster care because of poverty or other circumstances referred to in Article. 1 paragraph 1. These cleaning things, these things are different. The question is how many decisions have been made about some helplessness or family failure. The Ministry of Justice does not have such data, because the notion of helplessness or inefficiency of parents is such a broad and non-normative concept of the Family and Care Code, that our statistics simply do not include and do not appear to be necessary in the future. [[Voice from the room:...there are no legitimate decisions at all.]] As far as unjustified decisions are concerned, of course we can only examine the percentage, I do not know, of the judgments of the family courts held in the second instance or not, because, by nature, because of judicial independence, it is beyond us, outside the government, outside the parliament, that is, the third pillar of the state authority. Of course, we can collect such data, but it is the only objective measure of the wrongness of decisions, i.e. such decisions, which were found unfair at the time of the instance, because neither the Minister of Justice nor any other out-of-court factor should be judged by court decisions. It's obvious, that's the constitutional order in our country. As regards Mr Biernat's question about monitoring the implementation of the law, we will, of course, monitor it. There was a question in the club speeches that the Ombudsman applied for a file of cases where poverty was the only reason for placing the child in foster care. Perhaps the Ombudsman of the rights of the child has requested them, but for the time being, no decisions or conclusions can be made in this speech, because on our behalf, namely the Ministry of Justice, the Institute of Justice has requested all these files and analyzes them so that we have even more accurate statistics and that we can draw even better conclusions on the basis of the analysis of these judicial acts. In judicial statistics - in the data we collect - of course there is an isolated category of cases in which poverty would be the reason for placing the child in foster care. I assume that such cases after the entry into force of the Act will simply not happen because according to § 2 - in Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; 1 - placing the child in foster care against the will of the parents is not acceptable only because of poverty, so in the appropriate box we will see the number 0. That's what we're all about. The last issue raised - Mrs Stępień - concerning the mandatory opinion of the National Judicial Council. Here the need to regulate this situation, the need to eliminate even one case in which it could happen so that only because of poverty the child is placed in foster care, justifies a rather rapid procedure for the process of this law. And according to the case law of the Constitutional Court, it is not a violation of the Constitution where the opinion of the National Council of Courts is not sought, hence such a decision on the government's side to proceed so quickly on this project, in view of the higher social rations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u435	Thank you very much. Committee rapporteur Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the club speeches concerning this draft amendment there is a certain misunderstanding of the substance of this amendment, which means that a completely different legal state is being created than before. In order to place a child in a foster family as a result of poverty, in this legal state that we are currently creating, the family court will have to comply with all the measures provided for in Article on a case-by-case basis. 109 § Point 2 (1) and (4). These are different types of educational measures, such as: on occupational therapy, on supervision of the curator, on various types of educational, financial and psychological effects, resulting also from the provisions of the Act on support of the family and the system of foster care. And only when all these measures are fulfilled, when the court finds that there is a danger to the welfare of the child, can it apply this provision, if, of course, it is in accordance with the will of the parents. Because if this is against the will of parents and this is the condition of poverty, it is, of course, unacceptable. In the current state of law, the family court could immediately apply this most drastic case of child replacement care as a result of poverty. There is also a lack of understanding of this immediate provision of foster care for the child, which results from a serious threat to the child's well-being. These are sudden cases where there is some pathological condition, drinking your parents alcohol, and you have to react immediately. Then the custody court can do it. So it's not like this rule, this exception is still a rule, as it sounded in one of the club speeches. And yet I would like to say to Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski that the fact that you have stated is not in a position to settle against these provisions. Depending on the mother's right, the place of residence, which is his nationality, will apply here the provisions of private international law, the legal assistance agreement between Poland and the country of the child's place of residence and finally the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Only if you gave a specific situation from which it is a country, etc., could you answer this question more precisely, but this is not the subject of this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee system and the compulsory restructuring (print No 215). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! When presenting the draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the forced restructuring, I would like to briefly present the context of the proposed solutions, and then point out the most important changes that this proposal brings to the existing legal order. The financial crisis, which started in 2007, showed that, in the absence of effective instruments at both EU and national level to deal with bankruptcies or failing financial institutions, it was necessary to involve funds from Member States' budgets. It is therefore necessary to have an appropriate legal framework for the compulsory restructuring of financial institutions, allowing for the rapid restructuring of the person in difficulty regardless of its size and market links. Financial stability and the protection of depositors are values that must be protected in the public interest. It is appropriate to introduce such provisions as will reduce the risk of financial stability in the event of deterioration of the economic situation of financial sector entities. The proposed law aims to implement two directives, i.e. the BRRD and DGS Directives. The aim of the BRRD is to establish a system in the Member States where the possibility of involving taxpayers' money in rescuing the banking sector will be significantly reduced. In the case of problems in the banking sector, creditors and bank shareholders are to be the first to suffer losses. The aim of the DGS Directive is to strengthen the stability of the banking system and to increase the protection of depositors, inter alia. by eliminating certain differences in Member States' legislation with regard to the rules on the functioning of the deposit guarantee scheme. What are the relevant solutions adopted in the project? The proposed law provides that the authority for compulsory restructuring, the so-called authority. resolution, in Poland there will be a Bank Guarantee Fund. This fund will be responsible for raising funds for compulsory restructuring funds, in addition to the proposed guarantee funds modelled on existing BFG own funds dedicated to the financing of compulsory restructuring tasks. Therefore, the proposed law significantly extends and increases the importance of BFG, which so far focused only on supporting the recovery processes carried out in banks threatened with bankruptcy. The project provides a legal framework enabling the Bank's Guarantee Fund to carry out compulsory restructuring proceedings, equips the Fund with the necessary powers and restructuring instruments, such as the sale of a banking company, a bridge institution, redemption or conversion of liabilities and the separation of assets, and determines the sources of funding for these processes. The project regulates in detail the entire course of the forced restructuring process, including the principles of cooperation between the resolution authority, i.e. BFG, the supervisory authority - KNF and other institutions in the financial security network, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Poland, and the resolution authorities from other Member States in the framework of proceedings with regard to banking groups. The proposed provisions provide for a significant extension of the existing Banking Competences of the Guarantee Fund and the KNF. They will relate in particular to the process of preparing the compulsory restructuring procedure, its conduct and any accompanying elements in this respect, such as, first, the creation by the BFG of compulsory restructuring plans, the assessment of their feasibility and the issuing of recommendations to the financial institutions to remove the obstacles identified to the effective implementation of the restructuring procedure, second, the obligation on financial institutions to provide the information necessary for the preparation of forced restructuring proceedings, thirdly, the cancellation or conversion of capital instruments by the BFG, fourthly the finding by the KNF of indications that the entity is likely to fail, fifthly the decision of the BFG to initiate and carry out the restructuring proceedings. The last element is the obligation for financial institutions to maintain an adequate level of liabilities subject to redemption or conversion to the extent necessary to cover losses and restore own funds to at least a level that allows the conditions for continuing operations to be met. As regards the deposit guarantee scheme, the most important changes to the functioning of the system introduced by this Act and the resulting DGS Directive will concern inter alia. shortening the deadline for the payment of funds to depositors from 20 working days to 7 working days, harmonising the scope of the guarantee, i.e. Clarifications of the categories of cash or depositor's claims are covered by guarantee protection, protection for clients of developers' companies, i.e. depositors - entitled to guarantee protection in this case will not only be the developer, as is the case today, but also his customers making payments to the trust account and the guarantee limit will be equivalent in PLN 100,000. Euros. It is also a question of the possibility of temporarily covering certain categories of cash or depositor's claims as defined in the proposed law with a guarantee above the equivalent of 100,000. the euro in gold and the possibility of making cross-border payments of funds guaranteed to depositors, which is intended to increase the level of protection of depositors. According to the draft law, national banks, branches of foreign banks and cooperative credit and savings banks will contribute to the financing of the deposit guarantee scheme and to the financing of compulsory restructuring. In addition, investment firms will also contribute to the financing of forced restructuring. The amount of contributions will depend on the speed of the investigation to the minimum and target levels of the bank and bank guarantee scheme - 0.8% and 2.8 measures guaranteed respectively and measures to finance the forced restructuring of banks and investment firms and the cash register of guaranteed funds. High Izbo! In the opinion of the government, the adoption of the proposed law should increase the security of the banking system in Poland. In the long term, the proposed solution will increase the security and stability of the financial system, thereby reducing the risk of public funds being involved in rescuing those at risk of bankruptcy in the future. Therefore, on behalf of the government of the Republic of Poland, I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u439	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u440	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present the club's opinion on the draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring contained in the Seym printing No 215. According to the European Commission's reports, the value of public support to financial institutions only in the countries of the European Union in 2008 and 2012 amounted to more than EUR 2 trillion. Despite such a significant commitment, the threat to financial stability of individual countries and global markets has not been definitively eliminated. In view of the significant aid to the sector in recent years, there has been a belief that institutions that are so large that they cannot fall because their bankruptcy would have far worse and unpredictable effects, hence many participants in the trading and exchange of assets for speculative, investment purposes or those seeking simply to locate their savings remain convinced that countries cannot afford to bankrupt banking institutions, especially large according to standard rules. This further convinces clients of financial transactions with an all-time low level of risk and extends the lack of discipline and criticism, and often lack of common sense when assessing the underlying risks of unreliable counterparties or poorly constructed offers. There is also a belief about the ubiquitous supervision of authorised institutions, which is responsible for everything that is to be bought in the financial services market. Consequently, no one even wonders what he buys in the bank window by order of an institution employee who often cares more about earning a bonus or maintaining a job than on the funds entrusted by the customer. This has a number of consequences. The contested Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund includes one of them, of course the least expected, least desirable, but one which must be available, catalogued, formally described and prepared, even if never to occur. It is necessary to have an appropriate legal framework for the compulsory restructuring of financial institutions to enable the person in difficulty to be quickly repaired, irrespective of its size and market links. Financial stability and protection of depositors are values that must be protected in the public interest. Provision should be made to reduce the risk of financial stability in the event of a deterioration in the economic situation of financial sector entities. In countries such as the United States, Canada, Japan, Brazil, Mexico, Russia, Turkey and the Asian countries, a separate law has been created governing the compulsory restructuring of financial institutions carried out in out-of-court proceedings by the bodies appointed to do so. Not everyone remembers today that in Poland also after the start of the crisis in 2008 the Sejm granted over-standard powers to the Minister of Finance, which was at the time Jan Vincent-Rostowski, to provide support with a one-man decision up to PLN 50 billion from public funds without anybody's binding opinion except himself. A long-standing discussion on whether or not this taxpayer's money could also be remitted on a one-man basis, and ultimately the minister's privilege was withdrawn, but was designed by the government and signed in a Seym version by Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Work on forced restructuring of financial institutions, in particular banks and investment firms, is carried out on a global and European scale. The standardised legislative arrangements developed by the Financial Stability Board, bringing together the representatives of the most developed countries, including the G20 countries, are to be implemented in all countries of the group, also as a result of recommendations from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank or the Bank of International Settlements. On the basis of the assumptions made in previous working documents, the European Commission has drawn up a draft directive laying down the definitions of corrective actions and restructuring in respect of credit institutions and investment firms. The Directive was adopted by the European Parliament and published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 12 June 2014 as Directive 2014/59/EU, more known as the BRRD or the BRR Directive. It requires Member States to implement in their national legal systems the powers to conduct compulsory restructuring proceedings by means of instruments: acquisition of an undertaking, a bridge institution, separation of assets or redemption or conversion of debt. The Directive, followed by the proposed draft law on BFG, introduces provisions conferring powers on the competent authorities to redeem capital instruments in the context of the restructuring procedure or in the pre-trial stage, and introduces partial harmonisation in order to satisfy claims in insolvency proceedings by giving preference to selected categories of liabilities, in particular to guaranteed deposits. Member States should transpose the provisions of the BRR Directive into national legal orders before 1 January 2015, subject to the provisions on the debt write-off or conversion instrument that may be introduced a year later. In view of the need to implement the draft law into the national legal order of the BRR Directive, it has been adapted accordingly. The entity's scope has been extended to the original assumptions presented by the Financial Stability Committee Working Group with investment firms, financial institutions and holding companies that are parent companies in relation to groups that include an entity in difficulty. In addition, the projector covered the scope of the compulsory restructuring proceedings also cooperative savings and credit banks. In addition, a new Directive 2014/49/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on deposit guarantee schemes, DGSD, was adopted in June 2014. It took into account the need for harmonisation at European level, inter alia. as regards: mechanisms for financing deposit guarantee schemes and setting the target level of funds collected in the deposit guarantee scheme, determining the basis for calculating compulsory contributions to deposit guarantee schemes, product categories and groups of depositors covered by guarantees, the deadline for the payment of guaranteed funds - a reduction to 7 working days of that period - the possibility of using the funds of deposit guarantee schemes for resolution purposes. The relevant obligations in this respect are set out in the BRR Directive. In view of the above, it turns out that significant changes in the rules governing the functioning of the Polish deposit guarantee scheme are necessary at national level, i.e. in the Bank Guarantee Fund Act. The deadline for implementing a significant part of the provisions contained in DGSD was set by 3 July 2015. At the same time, however, the Directive identifies a number of transitional and adjustment periods for example. gradually shortening the maturity of deposits until the target date of 7 working days - from 1 January 2024. - or to reach the required amount of available funds of the Deposit Guarantee Scheme by 3 July 2024. In view of the nature of the proposed changes and their wide scope, and taking into account the need to organise the existing provisions supplemented by new solutions and thus to ensure transparency, to implement the provisions of the BRRD and DGSD, it was decided to make a new legislative act governing the functioning of the Banking Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring procedure, and not to amend the current Act of 14 December 1994 on the Banking Guarantee Fund and certain other laws. The aim of the proposed Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund is also to modify the provisions concerning the current deposit guarantee scheme in Poland and to create a legal framework enabling the compulsory restructuring of entities falling within the scope of the regulation. In view of the changes introduced by the proposed law aimed at implementing the BRRD and DGSD fund, which has until now been the main administrator of the Polish deposit guarantee system, under new conditions will gain additional powers of the authority for the forced restructuring of banks, branches of foreign banks, investment firms and cooperative savings and credit banks. The proposed law will affect national banks, branches of foreign banks, investment firms, cooperative credit and savings banks, the Minister responsible for financial institutions, the National Bank of Poland, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bank Guarantee Fund, the Financial Stability Committee and owners, clients, depositors, investors and other creditors. the institution, as well as the Treasury. The aim is to increase the security of financial institutions and their clients. The stability and security of the financial sector providing credit, loan, deposit-taking services of the public and economic operators providing clearing services directly reflects the stable environment in which the institutions and generating companies operate [[♪ The bell ♪]] jobs and economic growth. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request that the project be directed to further work in the Public Finance Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u441	Thank you very much. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring. Indeed, as the Minister and the Member of the Law and Justice Club said, the financial sector after the crisis of the end of the first decade of the 21st century is basically in permanent change, i.e. is subject to continuous different new prudential and supervisory arrangements. That's probably a good thing, 'cause we want this sector to be safer. This is also the law that we are starting to process in the Seym today. A few months ago, in the previous term of the Sejm, we introduced the whole CRD IV package and the consequences of these regulations and these implementations of EU directives is that we have higher capital requirements. Now we're going to introduce higher fees to the Bank Guarantee Fund. In the meantime, the Government of Law and Justice introduced a bank tax to finance the electoral promises of the government and the governing party, and President Andrzej Duda addressed to the Sejm a draft law on restructuring, on currency conversion, and also on fulfilling his electoral promise. Today the National Bank of Poland has included in its report that the cost of this law for the banking sector is PLN 44 billion. That's a lot, given that the profits from 2015 are about 12 billion. Just to be clear - I am not saying all this as a banking lobbyist, although unfortunately some Members of the Law and Justice have the ease of sticking this patch to people who are rationally trying to look at the banking sector. I am saying this because if I am concerned about the stability of the banking sector and if our club is concerned, it is mainly because this stability is important for the stability of the whole financial system, including for the sustainability of the public finance sector. Therefore, it is worth remembering that, even if we do not know which legislative arrangements for guaranteeing the deposits of Poles and for compulsory restructuring, nothing will replace the responsible government and the responsible parliament. By moving on to the bill, I would not like to repeat everything that Mr Janczyk and Mr Janczyk said quite specifically. Indeed, we are implementing two directives: DGS and BRR. One concerns the functioning of the deposit guarantee system in Poland, and indeed, as the Minister said, it increases the security of these deposits. It is particularly important that the 100,000. The euro will not only apply to the developer, but also to individual citizens who have paid their fees. Of course, it is important to reduce the time limit for depositors to pay money or to harmonise the scope of the guarantee and to make cross-border payments of funds guaranteed to depositors. The Act also introduces new rules for the calculation of contributions to the BFG by entities covered by the mandatory deposit guarantee scheme, provides for and sets out the whole procedure for the use of funds collected in BFG funds for the financing of compulsory restructuring activities. The authority for compulsory restructuring in Poland is the Bank Guarantee Fund and he will also be responsible for raising funds for compulsory restructuring funds alongside guarantee funds. Resolution is an out-of-court procedure carried out by this authority - in the case of Poland, BFG - authorised to use resolution instruments and exercise the powers to conduct this procedure. Such action shall be taken in the public interest. The main objective of resolution is to eliminate the negative effects of liquidation under insolvency procedure. The important objectives of this law, or specifically forced restructuring, are to maintain financial stability by preventing contamination, strengthening market discipline and, of course, strengthening public confidence in the banking sector. The aim is to protect public funds by minimising the risk of using these measures to save problematic and vulnerable institutions, ensuring the continuation of critical functions of financial institutions that are relevant from the perspective of the real economy and the recipients of financial services and, as I said, increasing the protection of depositors. The resolution shall start if, despite the implementation of previous supervisory corrective actions, as part of the corrective actions ordered by the Financial Supervision Commission to the entity, the situation is not improved and therefore the continuation of the entity's activities is threatened or necessary, as I have already said, in the public interest, or there is no indication that these corrective actions will soon remove the risk of continuing operations. In the event of a threat to the activities of the entities, the KNF shall inform the BFG, the NBP, the Minister of Finance, the Chairperson of the PSC and other supervisory and resolution authorities. If these conditions are met, the resolution authority decides to initiate these actions and chooses a tool or tools - you have already mentioned them. These are: acquisition of an undertaking, a bridge institution, separation of property rights, redemption or conversion of liabilities, cross-border cooperation or specific powers vis-à-vis the environment. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! As this regulation protects citizens' deposits and resolution measures are undertaken in the public interest, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of this law in committee and hopefully in the final vote in favour of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech was supposed to be calm, I was going to try to review the bill, but I was concerned about the content of the article that appeared in the newest weekly "Solidarity." I don't know if you've had a chance to get to know him. The title of this article is the "Ministra Szalamachy bombing of ownership - a draft law on BFG and forced restructuring brought to the Sejm. [[You don't have to believe everything that's written in the papers.]] Excuse me? [[You don't have to believe everything.]] I do not believe in everything that is written in the newspapers, because faith is a completely different plane, Commissioner. But if in such a serious newspaper that has such a reputation, especially for a ruling party that is practically not in the courtroom today... There's a part, there's a representation. If such a serious newspaper, coming from that side, is writing such a comprehensive article, which in a rather negative light puts the draft of the above-mentioned law, then some questions should be asked and it is necessary to verify which party is right and what is actually the point. I'm taking this very carefully, and I'm not prejudging the case or asking uncomfortable questions. I will only mark certain points, and the rest - hopefully - we will be able to explain and explain during the work in committee, because the accusations that are being made and the problems that are being put in this article are putting this bill in quite a negative light, both on the side of the Civic Platform and its ministers and on the side of the Law and Justice and its ministers. I'll limit myself to mentioning certain elements. Namely, according to the authors of the article, the bill gives the Bank Guarantee Fund the power to take irrevocable decisions which are not subject to appeal by judicial procedure. Secondly, the draft law covers cooperative banks and charges them with additional contributions to the so-called. the compulsory restructuring fund, even though the directive referred to, the BRR, applies only to banks meeting the so-called criteria. critical entities and cooperative banks are not critical entities according to the authors of the article. The third aspect of the case - the draft law covers cooperative savings and credit banks and charges them equally with additional contributions to this compulsory restructuring fund, even though the BRR does not apply to these entities. The authors of the article deal with the fact that the SKOKs have repeatedly appealed, tried to talk about it, while there was no appropriate response from the Minister, in the area of the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, to clarify this matter. Art. 22 projects exclude from guarantee protection to the equivalent of 100,000. The euro of local government units, i.e. in the event of the bankruptcy of the bank, the local government units will not recover the funds. According to the authors of the article, the bankruptcy of SK Bank caused among others that local government units such as the municipality of Wieliszew, the municipality of Ząbki, the municipality of Zielonka were injured. And what about them? Finally, the most controversial issue - art. 340 (5) or (5). 5 introduces in Article. 438 Bankruptcy rights 2, which in practice receives from citizens, of course according to the authors of the article, and companies the possibility to recover in the insolvency proceedings of the bank or if it is in the SKOK, then the SKOK, deposits above the amount guaranteed by the BFG, art. Paragraph 438. 2 contains a condition in practice impossible to comply with, is equivalent to the repeal of bankruptcy law and constitutes an infringement of property rights. This condition is that a failed bank can be sold in full. Now I quote the article: "In whole, provided that the bank of the buyer covers first all BFG's claims for the payment of the guaranteed funds. In practice, the sale of a failing bank in its entirety will never happen to another bank, moreover, if the assets situation of the failing bank were such that the buyer would be able to cover the liabilities to the BFG and then the liabilities of the depositors of the failing bank over the amount of the guarantee, the failing bank would never have fallen because its assets would have been at least equal commitments. I'm asking you to clarify this case. I'm not in a position because I'm not in a position to judge it objectively right now. Nevertheless, if there are such charges in such a weekly, this case cannot be left unnoticed. This case cannot remain unresolved until the end, especially since the authors of the weekly talk about the fact that the Civic Platform - Minister Szczurek - was the same in principle prepared by the law, and Minister Szalamach was one of the first to bring it to the table without reservation, despite the comments made to him by various centres concerning, among others, the issue. The points I mentioned. I think there are more points like that. I therefore request that this law be referred to the committee responsible. I don't know if the Public Finance Commission is enough, or if there's another committee that's needed. But I would like to see those matters which have been raised by the article and which, through my mouth, have also appeared on the Seymary's platform, to be fully explained so that we do not make laws, even now, as well as in the future, which are shadowing in such respectable weekly magazines. 'Cause I'm not quoting a weekly that's famous for some tabloid form, but I'm quoting a Tygodnik Solidarnoscji, whose reputations are probably not going to question the right side of the room that now rules. I would ask you to clarify this matter and to respond to this article, because it is difficult for us, Mr Kukiz, to judge this case if it is commented on in the light of the article from this weekly in this way and not another way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u445	Thank you very much, sir. I will ask Mr Paweł Pudłowski from the Modern Club to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u446	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The proposed draft act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring with draft implementing acts is intended mainly to implement European Union law. Importantly, the draft law was consulted widely with organisations representing the banking sector and the financial services environment at the same time as the inter-ministerial arrangements. The Modern Posel Club agrees with the need to implement the relevant directives of the European Parliament and of the Council and to organise legislation on the Banking Guarantee Fund on this occasion. In our view, the project was prepared fairly, but it is worth noting that the proposed law, which has 360 articles, is far from being recognised as the longest law in the Polish Civil Procedure Code legislation, which, I will remind you, had 1217 articles in its original version, but the draft law, together with the justification, impact assessment and convergence table, covers 1272 pages. With this material size and assumed average reading speed, which is 250 words per minute, it takes about 15 hours to read the whole. Elliot once said, "I would write a shorter letter if I had more time." The time was enough, because since 2014. However, moving to substance - the financial crisis, which started in 2007, showed that, in the absence of effective instruments for dealing with bankruptcies or failing financial institutions, it is necessary to involve funds from the state budget. The European Commission has therefore developed a Directive establishing a framework for corrective action and restructuring in respect of credit institutions and investment firms, which, as I mentioned, was published in the European Union Laws Journal in 2014. The Directive requires Member States to implement in their national legal systems the powers of authorities to conduct compulsory restructuring proceedings through the use of the instruments that Minister Leszek Skiba told us about. In view of the above, it is necessary, on national grounds, to make significant changes to the rules governing the functioning of the Polish deposit guarantee scheme. The purpose of the draft Act on the Bank Guarantee Fund is to modify the provisions concerning the current deposit guarantee scheme in Poland and to create a legal framework enabling the compulsory restructuring of entities falling within the scope of the regulation by issuing a legal act regulating the functioning of the Banking Guarantee Fund. The activities of financial entities are mainly based on trust, as I think we all know here. Losing this trust can lead to panic, resulting in the loss of liquidity of banks and thus the inaccessibility of depositors' funds. Hence the positive directional assessment of the proposed legislation by our club. However, we would like to have the opportunity to continue to work on the project, because many of them addressed by the institutions with which the projects were consulted, e.g. The association of Polish Banks, KNF, was not taken into account. Among other things, the Polish Bank Association paid attention to the costs of the proposed solutions affecting directly the banks' economic capacity to finance the Polish economy, as well as their competitiveness in the single market for financial services in the European Union. In conclusion, the Members' Club Modern is in favour of referring the bill to further work in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u447	Thank you very much. And I will ask Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u448	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The global crisis that my previous speakers have already mentioned here has actually exposed some of the security of the banking system in the world. Suddenly, it turned out that a bank whose financial stability was assessed very high is declaring bankruptcy, and the remaining market participants are very surprised by this fact. Following these events, the in-bank market almost froze, no one wanted to lend money to anyone for a longer period, because there was no way to know who was next. Banks nervously started looking for money from smaller investors, dramatically increased deposit prices, they became much more valuable than usual previously much better valued loans. Banks were less willing to renew their loans. This was felt by many entrepreneurs who were surprised that suddenly the loans were no longer so easily available that their price had changed, that the security requirements had changed. Luckily, this episode from the film entitled: The crisis didn't last long, everything went back to normal. The world has taken a distance to these events, but we have begun to draw conclusions that we need better security for the future, that we need to control the market more, that we need to safeguard more customer interests. Since then, the role of institutions such as the Bank Guarantee Fund has become much more important and fortunately no one denies this fact. If not for the smooth operation of BFG many Poles in recent months would lose their savings. From 2014 to now, the Bank Guarantee Fund has allocated over PLN 5 billion to depositors of failing financial institutions in Poland. Today we begin work on the revised Bank Guarantee Fund Act. The aim of this new law is to bring Polish legislation into line with European Union legislation. It implements two EU directives into the Polish legal system. That's what my previous speakers have been talking about, so there's no point in saying it again. It is worth noting that it is a bit worrying, as the Member has already said here, that the combined burden on banks has been increasing a lot lately - the banking tax, the problem of the franchise. All of this is not really about banks, but about the market, about the economy, and really about the interests of bank clients. There is nothing worse than the loss of stability in the banking system, as history has shown. As it turns out, we have something to worry about, ladies and gentlemen. A number of additional costs are imposed on banks and the situation of cooperative savings and credit banks is very concerned. The NBP report of February this year states that at the end of September 2015 40 of 49 SKOKs were obliged by KNF to develop corrective programmes, of which 10 were accepted by the committee. Currently, the commission board is in as many as five of them. At the end of September 2015, 20 out of 49 banks had a solvency ratio lower than the statutory 5% And it was negative in 11 cash. According to the SKOK reports, the SKOKs had a total shortage of own funds in relation to the new capital requirement of almost PLN 104 million. After the revision of the inspection it turned out that the equity was negative there, but the deficit was almost PLN 630 million. Of course, it is not possible to exaggerate the other way in order to maintain first and foremost common sense about market regulation. He spoke here about the concerns he has about the work on this law, but we are aware of how important it is to take care of the interests of people who have deposits in banks in Poland, in SKOKs in Poland. Therefore, the Modern Club will, of course, be actively involved in the work on this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u449	Thank you very much, Member. I will ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position to the government draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee system and the forced restructuring together with draft implementing acts. The draft law, as has already been said, is the implementation of EU law resulting from two directives: a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, i.e. the so-called. the BRRD Directive, and the April 2014 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on deposit guarantee schemes, i.e. DGSD Directive. The aim of the BRRD is to establish a system in the Member States which will reduce taxpayers' participation in the event of a crisis in the banking sector. First of all, the losses will be borne by creditors and bank shareholders. On the other hand, the aim of the DGSD is to increase security, to protect deposits by harmonising the rules in this area in all the Member States of the European Union. The draft law from Seym Printing No 215 is a very extensive, extremely detailed document. For many years we have been discussing cutting red tape, and I have the impression that this time government representatives preparing this document have simply forgotten about this basic principle. The Bank Guarantee Fund is an important institution in the financial system, tested under our Polish conditions, which has been operating for many years and has successfully carried out the tasks which it has been established in our country. The fact is that the directives I have already mentioned impose much greater obligations on the BFG, but I am still not convinced that the task of only one BFG requires 360 articles on 280 pages of the document. However, the generally submitted government project is a document being prepared, as you can see, without undue haste, consulted with the institutions to which it will influence, and some of them, such as the Financial Supervision Commission or the Polish Bank Association, expected further details of the records of the standard tasks and submitted them. The tasks arising from the BRRD and DGSD Directives will be carried out by the Bank Guarantee Fund. It is the BFG that will take action to promote the stability of the national financial system, in particular by ensuring the functioning of the mandatory deposit guarantee scheme and the conduct of compulsory restructuring proceedings. The draft law sets out in detail the status, tasks and bodies of the fund. These tasks include the guarantee of deposits, the control of the entities covered by the guarantee scheme, the collection and analysis of information on entities covered by the guarantee scheme or, finally, the conduct of compulsory restructuring proceedings, the preparation, updating and assessment of the feasibility of compulsory restructuring plans. Pursuant to the BRRD Directive, the Bank Guarantee Fund acquires the power to conduct compulsory restructuring proceedings through the use of instruments such as the acquisition of an undertaking, a bridge institution, the separation of assets, the redemption or the conversion of debt. The project regulates in detail the process of forced restructuring, including the principles of cooperation of the body, i.e. BFG, with the supervisory authority, with KNF, with the other institutions of the financial security network, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Poland, as well as the authorities of forced restructuring from other countries in the context of the conduct of this procedure in the case of banking groups. The proposed solution to give the BFG as a compulsory restructuring authority the power to issue administrative decisions deserves attention, but these decisions will be final and subject to immediate implementation to ensure the effectiveness and speed of the action taken. In the course of the consultation, certain institutions drew attention to the management nature of these decisions, since the administrative court will not be able to annul or annul the decision to initiate the compulsory restructuring procedure, the lack of adequate protection of the rights of shareholders and creditors, in particular in the event of a compulsory conversion or remission of liabilities. High Izbo! This extended security system clearly requires the expansion of BFG institutions and the provision of funding for the implementation of the planned tasks. The mandatory deposit guarantee scheme will be financed by banks, branches of foreign banks and cash from their contributions. The minimum level of funds of the DGS is 0.8% the amount of guaranteed measures and the target planned to be achieved by 3 July 2024 is 2,8% the amounts of the guaranteed measures. The amount of the contributions to that guarantee fund and the methods for determining those contributions shall be determined by the Bank Guarantee Fund and approved by the Commission for Financial Supervision, taking into account the risk profile of the bank or the cashier, membership of the institutional protection system, solvency ratio and asset quality. A separate BFG fund will be a compulsory restructuring fund with a minimum level of 1% for banks, banks and investment firms. the amounts guaranteed and the target is 1,4% of the amount guaranteed. The determination of compulsory restructuring contributions will be based on the value of liabilities less the amount of own funds and guaranteed funds. The determination of contributions and the identification of risk profiles to which entities will be required in both cases is very complex, complex and unfortunately imposed directly by Regulation of the Commission of the European Union 2015/63. The draft law also provides for the introduction of the so-called compulsory restructuring fund. exceptional contributions not exceeding three times the high total amount of contributions paid for the current year. Thus, the costs for the institutions concerned by the regulation of this law are undeniably high. In summary, this project is a very comprehensive, detailed and costly document, and as we know, it is not the only burden on banks. We are also aware that it is fulfilling European Union law, indeed introducing deposit security. This law will be harmonised for all Member States and the club of the Polish People's Party is in favour of working on this document in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u451	Thank you very much. Four persons entered on the list of Members of the task. Anyone else want to sign up? I can't see, so I'm closing the list. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Płępek's first question from the Civic Platform club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[One and a half minutes, 'cause I'm slow to talk.]] Make it a minute and a half, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The banking sector is the largest income tax payer in Poland. In 2014 he returned nearly PLN 4 billion to the state bank. Today's law is needed, has the task of implementing European law and has been underway since 2013. But I would like to say a little more about this law in the context of banking reforms. The precautionary charge that has been collected so far from banks will be abolished and replaced by a relatively higher contribution for the bank's compulsory restructuring fund. This is another factor that will adversely affect the cost of banking products. In general, this year there is a bank tax, more money for the Bank Guarantee Fund, as well as for the mortgage lending fund. Probably the French law prepared will also not be a reason to reduce the fees for banking products. The impact of the implementation of the reforms is already felt by bank customers in their pockets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question about what is the difference between the current rules on saving Poles and the changes currently being made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u453	The next question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u454	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Changes in regulations discussed today include: The Polish Deposit Insurance Scheme gives broad powers to the Bank Guarantee Fund. BFG will be a compulsory restructuring body for credit institutions. A special compulsory restructuring fund will be set up. Let's get to the question. A significant number of cooperative savings and credit banks are in a very difficult financial situation, requiring the implementation of urgent recovery programmes, i.e. the opinion of the Financial Supervision Commission. Unfortunately, we are dealing with a great deal of tardiness of cooperative savings and credit banks in this action. There is a serious threat of bankruptcy of these institutions. Will this law set up financial matters in difficulty for cooperative savings and credit banks and will they be subject to compulsory restructuring? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u455	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions. I would like to ask whether the fees paid to the BFG, I mean both the guarantee fund and the compulsory restructuring fund, will be at the expense of the banks' income. That's the first question. And second question. We all know what a blessing it was for Poles who wrongly trusted the SKOKs and gave their savings to them, to cover deposits in the SKOKs with BFG guarantees. I'd like to ask. In this bill we have a separate guarantee fund for banks, separate for SKOKs, the same with restructuring. What happens if it turns out that these funds dedicated to the SKOKs, the SKOKs, will not have sufficient resources - and probably will not - because so far the SKOKs have an obligation to the aid fund - in the event of further bankruptcy of the SKOKs, which they probably will or will be? Will this fund be powered by a bank guarantee fund, or is there another solution? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, will ask you another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four questions about the bill. Does the Polish government envisage investments in order to take over selected branches of banks operating in Poland, which are so far in the structure of supranational corporations? Data says it's almost 40%. assets in the ownership structure of the financial sector belong to domestic investors. Another question. The current report of the Financial Supervision Commission for the third quarter of 2015 can be cited as stagnating in the area of loans to the budgetary sector. Does the Council of Ministers have plans to revive this market or are the possibilities of this market being fully exploited? Is it true that the Industrial and Commercial Bank is for sale? Will the State Treasury take over this bank from General Electric? Deposits in SKOKs are guaranteed by the Bank Guarantee Fund on the same terms as deposits in banks. I have a question: How was the possible emergency situation of many SKOKs secured? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u459	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Genowefa Tokarska from the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this House a few months ago, we adopted a law on the functioning and association of cooperative banks. In that project we adopted such an institutional protection system for cooperative banks, so-called. IPS. At the same time, we took the assumption that the cooperative banks which will create this IPS would enter the IPS, the contribution to the BFG guarantee fund would be paid in the middle of the amount. This was meant to be 50% for the BFG guarantee fund, 50% for this institutional IPS protection system. My question is therefore: How will the provision of that law refer to today's project? We know that this Regulation of the Commission of the European Union 2015/63 does not literally provide for such a provision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u461	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I therefore ask that the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Leszek Skiba speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u462	Thank you very much. I answer questions. Mrs Płępek's first question - BFG fee. We can expect it to remain at the level of this year because, in fact, since 2014, the growth rate in the BFG is quite high, and this is linked to the situation on the banking market. Therefore, it is unlikely that we should expect that, as a result of the adoption of this law, the implementation of the directives will result in a change in the rate of growth of funds. Mrs Czernow's second question. Here I answer that banks and SKOKs are treated the same way. And it's like there's no difference when it comes to banks and skoks. This question, as I understand it, is somewhat related to Mrs Leszczyna's question, what will happen if this BFG fund for the SKOKs is exhausted. The BFG has the right to transfer funds from fees collected from banks in the direction, in favour of the funds. [[The banks will still pay for the SKOKs.]] And the first question is whether the fee is at the expense of income. It is not, this fee is not at the expense of obtaining income. [[No fund?]] It is not at the expense of obtaining income for any fund. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: They will finish.]] With regard to Mr Sitarski's question, it is a question of investment, issues related to intentions and privatisation. As I understand, there is no direct effect of this law when it comes to ownership decisions in the banking market in Poland. And if this question is not related to the law, I think that it is a question to the Minister of the Treasury, i.e. in some sense the activity of the Minister of Finance is not related to decisions relating to ownership changes in the banking market. Here, too, I answer the last of these four questions. I confirm that deposits in SKOKs are protected to the same extent as in banks and this bill also maintains this principle. Ms Tokarska's question. This exemption for IPS is not in the project because there were doubts during the work on the Foreign Minister's Law, these doubts concerned whether this provision should actually arise in the implementation of both directives. Therefore, as I understand it, working in committee is a good opportunity to deal with this issue again. I hope I answered all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u463	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the Government's draft law on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring, contained in print No 215, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report to the committee by 15 March 2016. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for February 10th. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Six people. Is any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House still willing to make a statement? No one's checking in. Therefore, I believe that the list of Members of this House is closed. I will ask Mr Kurzepa from the Law and Justice Club to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! Honourable Members and Messengers! We are in the next month's Smolensk month, or memories of events of character, about the dimension of national tragedy imprinting on a significant stigma of pain, helplessness, fear in some, courage, determination, increased patriotism in others. The Smolensk tragedy happened only six years ago. Only in the blink of an eye in the history and long lasting of the nation. Perhaps that is why it is so difficult for us, society, to move, communicate, courageously face the truth about its causes, whatever it may be. This state of social ambivalence, fear of pursuing the truth, comes from two sources. One is the state of political struggle against this truth, which takes place both in the realities of internal politics and external influences, powers and forces, which is the state of this state as much as possible. The second source is us ourselves, fortitude and steadfastness of our spirit, as well as weaknesses in our character or attitudes toward solving or escaping difficult situations. In both cases, the sources analysed, which make it difficult for us to stand in full truth about the causes of the Smoleńsk disaster, do not change the fact that we are a Posmoleńsk nation in the identity of our social life. For many of my listeners, the very fact that I use the word Smolensk and refer to disaster disqualifies me from the area of potential, rational interlocutors and partners in rebuilding the broken community of the Smolensk community in the woods. If we return to the sources of this Community gesture of sleep. President Lech Kaczyński, who, with a wide, fully pluralistic and representative of all political forces, a social delegation flew to Katyn, so that together on behalf of the whole nation, on his behalf, in the company of such a pluralist delegation to lean over the Katyn graves, we will understand how effective it was, who not only destroyed the work on creating national bonds, but completely crashed us as a nation. Today it is us, Poles, who may increasingly see the categoric nature of this catastrophe for our fates, that we must confront the ghosts who have been raised around it. The only way to do that is to get to the truth and get to all possible sources, forces and environments that can help to thin down Smolensk fog. This belongs to the scope of the Sejm, the government, the institutions of the state. But do we have something to do here ourselves? Absolutely. Let us rid ourselves of our cravings and distrust towards ourselves, let us not take away the right to differing positions and points of view, and above all, let us not take away our dignity and respect just because we seek the truth. The state failed in this case years ago. He's got a chance to rehabilitate today. And the nation? Nobody died at Smolensk. He won't come back. The question remains: Did the nation also fall in this tragedy? Does he have the wisdom and strength to rise from his knees? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u465	I would like to make a statement to the next Member, Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement would like to sacrifice a special character that we owe so much to, a great man, a great hero, Colonel. Richard Kuklinski. We were very pleased to hear that the Minister of National Defence Antoni Macierewicz applied to the President of the Republic for nomination and a general promotion for the deceased. Col. Richard Kuklinski, justifying this decision: This belongs to the colonel's memory. This also belongs to the Polish army, which must have patterns clear and distinguish what is right and what is wrong. Soldiers need to know when they're dealing with treason and when they're dealing with heroism. I would like to remind you that February 11th is the 12th anniversary of the death of Colonel Richard Kuklinski, the great patriot and hero. I had the privilege and happiness of personally meeting this great Polish spirit and patriot during his arrival in Poland in 1998. I remember him as a humble, humble man who, despite so many personal tragedies, unjust judgments and slanders, retained the serenity of the spirit and with an impeccable moral attitude, was able to bear the humiliation he had experienced from the authorities first of the Polish People's Republic and later, unfortunately, the Republic of Poland. He devoted his entire life and actions to service to Poland. This contributed not only to the overthrow of communism in Poland, but also to the maintenance of peace threatened by military, offensive plans of the Soviet Union. Colonel Ryszard Kukliński in 1971-1981, in his concern for the fate of the country and Poles, risked his life to American intelligence over 40,000. pages of classified documents concerning, inter alia, plans to use nuclear weapons by the Soviet Union, as well as plans to introduce martial law in Poland. That's what you have to remember. At the same time, he did not pay attention to the dangers and courageously resisted the communist regime. It is also worth mentioning Professor Zbigniew Brzeziński's words about the Kukliński colonel: Colonel Kukliński, I say with all the emphasis, was not an ordinary agent of American intelligence. He was a brave ally at the time when the entire Polish Army Command was sold to the Soviets. In risking his life not only his own, but his entire family, he deserved Poland. Information was received on my desk, among others. from Kuklinski's colonel. The colonel's information, however, was extremely detailed and enabled us to take preventive measures, which offset the Soviet advantage and removed the threat of causing war by them. However, if Moscow had started a war with NATO states, the commander of the Soviet forces attacking Europe, Marshal Kulikov, would have been disarmed with the entire staff no later than 3 hours after the beginning of aggression. Such defence measures could be taken by the United States based only on information previously provided by Kuklinski. CIA Director Clinton and Bush spoke of Colonel Kuklinski during the presidency: This courageous Pole helped to prevent the Cold War from turning into a hot war. He did so, guided by the noblest reason to support the sacred cause of freedom and peace in his home country and throughout the world. Thanks to the courage and dedication of Kuklinski's colonel, his homeland, Poland and the enslaved countries of Central Europe, Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union regained their freedom. Nevertheless, the court of the Polish People's Republic in 1984 issued a death sentence on Kuklinski's colonel. It was not until 1995 that scandalous sentence was lifted. Colonel Ryszard Kukliński died on 11 February 2004 in Tampa, Florida, until the end of his dream that he would come to Poland again. His ashes were brought to Poland, placed in the Alley of the Decent Military Cemetery in Powązki in Warsaw. By the way - just tomorrow - February 11th, it is worth remembering the words of Colonel Ryszard Kuklinski, our hero: For what I did, I paid the highest price a man can pay - not only with the loss of my sons, but also with injustice and hurtful assessments in my country. They hurt me so much. But I never had a doubt that I chose well. And if I had to live a second time, I would have done the same thing. Everything I've done in my life, I've done for Poland. That's what Colonel Richard Kuklinski said. Hello and praise the hero of Colonel Richard Kuklinski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u467	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka from the Polish People's Party Club to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u468	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The 76th anniversary of the first export of citizens of the Republic of Poland to Siberia is held on 10 February. Eastern Poland, including Białystok land, also paid tribute to the dead in Siberia today and to those who survived and returned to their homeland. The first export to Siberia, in 1940, was the most tragic and covered around 140 thousand. People. The export took place at night from 9 February to 10 February 1940. At that time mostly military settlers, foresters, inhabitants of small towns, including many peasants and officials were deported. Many did not survive the journey, and many did not return from the scene. Several hundred thousand Poles were exported to Inhuman soil because at the time of the aggression of the Soviet Union they were citizens of the Republic of Poland on 17 September 1939. Deported February 10, 1940 Poles were relocated to Krasnojarskie, Komi. A part of the Polish population was then sent to the Archangel, Sverdłowski and Irkutsk region. Another wave of deportation took place in April 1940 and concerned mainly Polish elites, intelligences, including judges, officials, teachers, as well as families of people deported on 10 February 1940. Kazakhstan was the main place to deflect them. In June 1940, exports to Siberia included in particular Poles and Polish Jews who, after 1 September 1939, found themselves in the Eastern Kres. They were transported mainly to the Archangel region and to the Autonomous Republic of Komi, as well as east of Urals - to the Altai Country, Krasnojarskie Country, Yakutia. In May 1941, the Soviet authorities adopted a decision on further deportations of the population of the eastern lands of the Republic. On 22 May 1941, another mass deportation began, this time mainly the inhabitants of the Eastern Małopolska, the Polish south-eastern border. Deportations mainly included families of people deported earlier, including in 1940. In turn in the night from 19 to 20 June 1941 a mass export of Poles from the so-called. western Belarus, i.e. mainly from the Białystok voivodship and in part from Polesia. The number of deportees is estimated to be 0,8 and 1 million. Some historians say it was only 300,000. persons. That's a lot of doubt. Poles were transported deep into Russia. However, it should be emphasized that during the first 2 years of the Soviet occupation, 1939-1941, many Poles who never returned to their homeland were sent to Siberia. In Podlasie today is the anniversary of exports to Siberia. The celebrations are attended not only by the authorities, but above all by the sibiracs, i.e. those who successfully returned to their homeland and members of their families. Today, the Siberians honor the memory of those who fell victim to the ruthless policy of the Soviet authorities, the tragedy of this first deportation of 10 February 1940 and subsequent - April and June 1940 and the last one that took place in May 1941. Let us remember and honor the memory of those who fell victim to the ruthless politics of the Soviet authorities, all the dead and those who survived the Golgotha of the East. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u469	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I would like to present to you on behalf of the entire Jarosław community a wonderful teacher, whose 40th anniversary we celebrate - Anna Jenke. Who was Anna Jenke to talk about her in parliament? What did she deserve for Poland, that the descendants put her as a model of a hot patriot? What is it for the Church that wishes to bring it to glory the altars as a blessed one? What merits does he have for pedagogical thought and Polish education that he is commonly called today a teacher of truth, courage and love? Anna Jenke worked as a teacher at the time of an acute communist regime, 1950s and 1975s. She was known as an extraordinary teacher and educator. She did her profession with great dignity. At that time, teaching programs and upbringings were soaked with godless ideology and great vigilance and courage from the teacher required that the young generation be protected from falsehood and poisoning of the spirit. Not all teachers did it. Many of them, enslaved and scared, were carrying out an imposed ideological program against their consciences. Anna, on the other hand, remained herself to the end despite the repression, maintaining a decent moral attitude. She brought God to school despite official atheism, in addition to the program in force, she taught according to her own program, showing the heritage of Polish culture, and implanted deep patriotism into young generations. She could do so because she was strong in spirit, uncompromising and consistent in her conduct. That's why she went into history as a pedagogist with character, with good transparency in views and principles. He was a mighty spirit. The light of faith, the love of God and the love of another man penetrated her everyday greyness. This foundation was based on her moral authority, so that she could be effective in her actions and win. Her rich personality served the spiritual formation of young people. In view of the reality, Anna was a realist, in an assessment of the future predicting and ahead of her era. Professor Anna Jenke, seeing the dangers, presented them to the right people and institutions, calling them by name. She said: "Lately, it is quite clear that two waves are being strengthened: sex and drug addiction. It's not the West anymore, but our Polish youth. Ideality, emptiness, escape from effort and effort in the land obtained by drugs. Numerous more and more suicide attempts, treatment in a psychiatric hospital. The severity of the threats continued to increase, and Anna continued to inform: "Alcoholism of minors. There is now a wave of threats, such as during the war and the march of the front troops. Tragedies and drama arise from the carelessness of parents and carers and the promotion of comprehensively and programmed sexual freedom. She called for human consciousness, but this one was dormant and didn't respond enough. Nevertheless, Anna continued waking the dormant and urged: "We are flying into the abyss, and it is with great acceleration, which there is no doubt. It's about moral evil and the "pop" of programmed evil. And we sleep hard! And our young people are playing sex and turning to rot. She suggested different methods to correct evil. She also emphasized spiritual formation, prayer, hoping for God's help to stop the demoralization of children and young people. Full of confidence she said: "We have already been through a lot - but God is with us and the Queen of the Polish Crown. Isn't today similar to that of 40 years ago? That is why we would need to invite a pedagog with a character - Anna Jenke to stand on the threshold of the 21st century with her educational program, with the experience of the bleak communist regime. And she would definitely say, here in the Seym, where laws are established: Stop liberalizing in education! Stop gender ideology! Stop the demoralization! To speak out loud - so that it can be heard also in Brussels. To be heard by Polish teachers and educators, parents and carers and to see that the young generation is at great risk and will pay a great price for it. We must be new people - without compromise with evil. We must live in love like the first Christians, as Anna Jenke said. It would have been enough to take these words to heart, and Poland's face would have changed. And now people are coming through Poland strong God - said Anna Jenke. And these people bring great good to Poland in every field of life, also in education. For the anniversary of the great educator - Anna Jenke - we wish this renewal first, [[♪ The bell ♪]] also to all teachers and educators, parents and carers. Let us be strengthened by Anna Jenke's words written in her Diary: "Maybe you are overwhelmed by night and darkness, maybe the shadow fell upon your school, on your children and on your family. But believe in the Light. And say, I will do everything to make the young generation beautiful, joyful and clean. The reality around us is very far from this ideal. Yet, with Faith, Hope and Love, let us enter every school year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u471	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement to Mrs Ewa Kozanecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u472	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement in memory of Piotr Bartoszcza's heroic attitude. The celebration of the memory of Piotr Bartoszcze murdered in 1984 began in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship the celebration of the 35th anniversary of registration of the NSZZ Individual Farmers The ceremony in Inowroclaw was also attended by Primate Wojciech Polak. Piotr Bartoszcze was a farmer who owned a medium-sized farm in Sławacinek near Inowrocław. Together with his father Michael and brother Roman, he was co-founder of NSZZ RI.Solidarity Boys and a member of the founding committee of this union. At the unification convention in March 1981 in Poznań he became a member of the National Founding Committee of NSZZ Individual Farmers (Solidarity). Since March he has been a participant in the occupation strike of WK ZSL headquarters in Bydgoszcz, as part of the National Strajkowa Committee and on his behalf on 17 April this year he was one of the signatories of the so-called. Bydgoszcz agreements between farmers' organisations and the government party which ended the occupation strike and led to registration in the following month NSZZ RI He was a member of the national authorities of the union and led its structures in Kujawy western and Pałuki. In wartime with their father and brother, they organized conspiracy activities, issuing and colporting underground writings of life and weapons. From September to November 1982, he was interned with his brother Roman. Piotr Bartoszcze died tragically on 7 February 1984. His body was pressed into a sewer pit in Radłówek's field only on 9 February found Roman's brother. Government spokesman Jerzy Urban claimed that he was killed by an accident, suggesting that he was under the influence of alcohol. The circumstances of this death, numerous and unambiguous evidence, as well as indications indicate that it was a murder. Among other things, a car pushed into the river along with numerous signs of collision with a militia car, tracks of prosecution by two people and struggles for life, the way the body is placed in the well clearly indicates the participation of third parties. .Solidarity led an independent investigation proving beyond any doubt the murder. The authorities of the Polish People's Republic ignored the evidence presented by refusing to conduct an open investigation and to seek direct murderers and their rulers. The evidence collected and delivered was destroyed. The reopened investigation was not able to establish anything new in later years and was reassigned in 1995. Direct criminals and their rulers have not been exposed and punished. However, they failed to cover the complete mystery of this secret murder 32 years ago. Today we cannot be sure that we will see the official disclosure of full truth, legal judgment and justice. All the more reason for us to make sure that Peter Bartoszcze's death is not forgotten is not futile. As a nation, we owe our gratitude to those who gave their own lives for their freedom and independence. Respect for our national and regional traditions of the struggle for freedom, their full knowledge and worthy cultivation are a condition for the wise and full enjoyment of the freedom for which he lived and gave his life also to Piotr Bartoszcze. Only then can the sacrifice of the lives of our historical heroes strengthen us spiritually and motivate us to sacrifice for the common good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u473	Thank you. And I will ask Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, the Law and Justice Club, to make a statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u474	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the request of Eleonora Chmielarska, an outstanding educator and educator working in Bochnia and Bochenszczyzna, the creator of the circles of Bolka and Lolka's friends, I would like to read the content of the petition, which this environment has prepared: In the interests of the most widely understood social welfare, and especially the welfare of the youngest citizens of the Republic, we ask you to take an interest in the problem of violence and aggression which are transmitted and even promoted in films broadcast in several television channels for children and young people. These films contain harmful and dangerous content for the delicate psyche of the child. Psychologists, educators and, most importantly, parents beat the alarm. We appeal to you, having the best interests of our youngest in the field, realizing the dangers and devastations that this type of production brings in the psyche of our children, desiring that their adult lives be peaceful and rich in the values we were taught when we were young at home, at school, at Girl Scouts and on screens of cinemas and television. Unfortunately, great films for children such as Bolka and Lolka's Adventures, Rexia's Adventures, Matołek's Goat, the Enchanted Pencil, the Ingenious Dobromir and many others, are currently banned films, excuse me, movies doomed to oblivion. Fairy tales are supposed to teach, help develop imagination and play, not scare. Paradoxically, in Japan producing the largest number of movies of scarers, Bolka and Lolka are the most visited adventures, which have already seen nearly 1 billion people in 80 countries. In Poland, not a single film has been created for children for 10 years, and a legendary film company for children and young people in Bielsko-Biała has been transformed into a museum. Is this the right thing to do? Does it have to be like this? Our answer is no. We look forward to understanding and taking concrete action by all of you as extremely important from the perspective of the future of our homeland, because such things will be the common things that their young people hide. Not all is lost yet, ladies and gentlemen, not yet. For our part, the nationwide action of collecting signatures under the slogan "Stop violence in films for the youngest." We want Bolka and Lolka. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u475	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Golinska, the Law and Justice Club, to make a declaration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Colony of Parosla I in the Sarne district, 9 February 1943. Exactly yesterday was the 73rd anniversary of the mass murder of Ukrainian nationalists on the Polish population, inhabitants of the village of Parósa in the former Volynsk voivodeship. Murder on the defenseless was done with knives and axes, killing according to various estimates between 149 and 173 people, including women and children. Only 12 Poles, mostly children, were saved. Some of them remained disabled for the rest of their lives. The village of Parsa has ceased to exist. Although the first mass murder, in which about 50 Poles were victims of Ukrainian nationalists, took place in Obobki in 1942, it is the murder in Paros is considered the beginning of the Volyn crime. Its perpetrators, the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization, the faction of Stepan Bandera, and its armed arm - the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, in their own documents the planned extermination of the Polish population were referred to as anti-Polish action. Since then, the scale and frequency of terror has increased to reach its apogee in July 1943. More than 10,000 were murdered at the time. Poles. On 11 and 12 July UPA launched a coordinated attack on Poles in 150 villages. The fact that people were gathered in churches on Sunday 11 July was used. Mass crimes in Poles were committed in 1865 places in Volyn. Extreme cruelty and torture caused this crime to be referred to as the Volyn slaughter. In this way, anti-Polish ethnic cleansing qualified by the investigators of the Institute of National Remembrance as genocide was carried out. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u477	Thank you very much. With this statement, we have concluded our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u478	Statement on the 270th anniversary of Tadeusz Kościuszko's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! February 4th this year We celebrated the 270th anniversary of the birth of Tadeusz Kościuszko - the national hero of Poland and the United States. He participated in the American War for Independence and in the Polish national liberation uprisings. Tadeusz Kościuszko was born on 4 February 1746 in Merechowszczyzna. He started his education at the age of 9, joining the Piarist College in Lubieszów, then studying in Warsaw at the Knights' School Cadet Corps. In this school, the aim of which was to prepare officers, light, progressive and good citizens, he shaped his views on life. He also studied fine arts and engineering in France as part of his scholarship. Kościuszko returned to Poland 2 years after the first partition of Poland. Without finding a job in the army, he went overseas to join the U.S. Army, where he got a job as a military engineer. During that time, he built defense reinforcements, chains under Saratoga, as well as the West Point fortress. He was soon appointed Colonel. In the U.S. Army he served under the command of several generals, each task doing with great dedication and repeatedly contributing to spectacular victories. In 1783, he received the rank of Brigadier General and the remuneration in the form of land and prize money. The following year, Tadeusz Kościuszko returned to Poland. Soon he joined military service as a Major General. The Polish-Russian war, in which Kościuszko participated, began following the establishment of the trade union and the entry of the Russian army into Poland. After the accession of King Stanisław August Poniatowski to Targowica Kościuszko, he resigned and left the country. Tadeusz Kościuszko and other emigrants were preparing a strategy for the national uprising. He participated in the preparation of the insurrection and after its outbreak in 1794 took over the leadership as the Supreme Chief of the National Armed Forces. As the leader of the uprising, he declared universal mobilization and enlistment to the insurgent army. He participated in many battles, among which the Battle of Raclawice is best known. In the battle of Maciejowice on October 10, 1794. Kościuszko was wounded and was captured by the Tsar. Soon after that, the insurance went down. After the release by the Tsar Paul I, Romanov Kościuszko stayed in the United States and then in Paris. He spent the last years of his life in Solura, Switzerland, where he died on 15 October 1817. His remains were brought to Poland and deposited in the crypt of St. Leonard Wawel Cathedral. The heart of the hero was placed in a urn at the Royal Castle in Warsaw. Since the death of Tadeusz Kościuszko, Poles have been more and more respectful to this character. He is one of the most important national heroes of Poland and the United States. To commemorate his memory in Krakow, a mound of his name was erected, monuments of Kościuszko can be found in many American cities, on the battlefield of Saratoga and in front of the West Point Military University. Located in Philadelphia, the house where the hero lived houses a dedicated museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-10-sejm-11-2.u479	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 11 February 2016 at 3 p.m. 9. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 20 min 39]]
