ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u1	I open the twenty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I very much welcome you to the Senate meeting of the President of the Senate of the Kingdom of Malaysia, Mr Dato' Sri SA. Vigneswarana and the delegation. I would like to welcome you very warmly, Mr President. [[Applause]] I appoint Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 20 July 2016, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate of the functioning of social cooperatives operating under the Act of 27 April 2006 on social cooperatives for the period 2014 to 2015. It is included in print number 832. On 22 July 2016, I sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission took note of the information at its meeting on 20 September 2016. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the twenty-second, twenty-third and twenty-fourth meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that items two, four and six of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports to those items were submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of a committee report on the draft appeal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the United Kingdom Parliament, this point has been removed from the agenda. It will be dealt with after a report has been drawn up on this matter. High Izbo! Following a request from a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Marek Chrzanowski, to withdraw his declaration of resignation as a member of the Board, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends that the Senate terminate its proceedings. I therefore request that a member of the Monetary Policy Council be removed from the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I object to your decision to remove from the agenda this Senate meeting a point on the appeal of the Senate to the British Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u3	But now it's... Mr. Senator, I'm taking your voice off the table because I'm already on the subject. I told you. There is no report, so it is not possible to put this item on the agenda. There's no committee report. [[I understand your upset...]] But not upset, it's just a statement of fact. That's a statement of fact. [[I accept it, even I can justify it, Mr. Marshal, but the voice, in my opinion, cannot be taken away from me because you have invited the senators to make a statement of support or opposition...]] But in the face of another... [[...so I want to justify this objection.]] But to a different point, Mr. Senator. [[I'm here about the roll call.]] Well, then, no. Then you can take the floor, and I asked you a question that I'm going to repeat because... the senator didn't understand or hear, so I'll tell you again, okay? I repeat... [[I understand you've been vague, too.]] [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] No, Mr. Senator. It's all recorded and it's all logged in. I read it very clearly... I'll read it again, Senator. You're completely upset, so please listen to this in peace again. I read: In connection with the request of a member of the Monetary Policy Council, Mr Marek Chrzanowski, to withdraw his declaration of resignation as a member of the Board, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends that the Senate terminate its proceedings. I therefore request that the item be removed from the agenda: the withdrawal of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. And you objected, but I understand not to that point. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws. and consider it as a third item of the agenda; a law amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units and considering it as a fourth item of the agenda; consenting to the appointment of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications and considering it as a point of the eighth agenda; a third reading of the bill amending the Act on Anti-Communist Opposition Act and persons repressed for political reasons and consider it as item 9 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Senator Rulewski.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for giving me the floor and allowing me to object in a calm atmosphere. As you know, the draft agenda included a proposal for consideration by the High House of the Senate's appeal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u5	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but it's really not here. I've read it, replaced it... one, two, three, four... five bills. Do you object to any laws? [[No. I...]] Thank you very much. [[I object to this...]] Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me. [[...that you presented order...]] Please don't disturb me. [[...in which you deleted the proposal you had put in place.]] Mr. Senator, you... [[So, where do I report this?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, at the right time, okay? [[Good.]] Thank you very much. [[I understand you'll remember that.]] I'll tell you then, okay? I'll call you by your name. At the moment, you're simply obstructing the proceedings, Senator. If I do not hear an objection, I believe that the High House has adopted the proposals presented to complete the agenda by 5 above mentioned laws. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I inform you that Senator Jan Rulewski But this isn't the moment yet... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ... on 10 September 2016, in accordance with Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: information on the government's plans for reprivatisation, a description of initiatives, deadlines for implementation, subject-matter, commitment of budgetary and other resources, the Ministry responsible. That's exactly the conclusion. I did not take into account the proposal submitted because I believe that this issue should first be dealt with by the relevant Senate Committee. Does the applicant still maintain his application? There you go, Mr. Senator. Now on this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your accent, but it is difficult to accept your decision, even because the issue of reprivatization is not just a problem for the Senate today, but it is a problem for society as a whole, for political, social groups and, of course, for those concerned. The delay in this regard, as a result of procedural sneakings, does not solve anything, especially since certain environments, without determining what, are engaged not so much in reprivatization as in cutting their heads off. And yet society, interested people, expect a solution to the problem, and this solution does not exist. Of course, this problem will not be solved by the High House or by a group of Members or Senators, but only by the government's initiative. These cases have been going on for a long time, but I think that every government, whether good or bad, has such initiatives in the drawer, so please present this initiative or information about it already at this Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u7	Good. You're upholding this motion. [[Sustained.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among the senators is in favour of my motion to disregard the senator's request? Who's in favour of my motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, 51 against 25. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote on this proposal, I state that this item will not be held at this Senate meeting. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for giving the floor again. I don't mean to impose, but this seems to be the case. I would like to request the restoration of the point of discussion by the High House of the Senate's draft appeal to the United Kingdom Parliament, as set out in the original draft of today's sitting. This does not need to be justified in this House. I believe your knowledge is sufficient. There is a problem, there are very serious problems with Poles who have been in large numbers in the United Kingdom for years on the basis of European treaties and are currently under national pressure. Mr. Marshal has indeed taken the initiative of the letter, but we have not received an answer to the Marshal's letter, and above all... The scale of these threats is increasing, this pressure is increasing, so the establishment of the group referred to in this appeal, the Polish-British group, would undoubtedly serve peace and, above all, protect the interests of our compatriots. I therefore consider this matter to be present. I would add that Mr. Marshal has applied a preference to another resolution, notabene, in my opinion, very good, and in the case of this appeal he has not set a deadline, so this matter may not be considered at all, especially since the High Commissions to which Mr. Marshal has addressed it, unfortunately, have not dealt with this appeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. The senator is absolutely right. We cannot vote on the proposal to include this point in order because we do not have a report. We can't just put it to a vote. So that I understand it as a marginal expression. Would any of you like to... [[I'm here about this.]] About this? But it's okay. Well, Mr. Senator, what's there to talk about? [[If you don't mind...]] Well, there you go, but I think it's a completely unnecessary voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u10	This is a big deal. Mr. Marshal, this is not just Senator Rulewski's individual initiative. This is an initiative that's been backed up by our entire club. I asked your marshal in a special letter to shorten the time limit for this case. This case is really colossal. We don't know what the British side's reaction to Mr. Marshal's letter is. We would like to support Mr Marshal's speech in this way, to support him with the voice of the House as a whole. This seems justified in a situation where verbal and physical aggression against our citizens abroad, in the UK, is increasing overnight. However, I would very much like to ask your marshal to make sure that this is still under consideration at this meeting. If that is possible, I ask you to convene a committee meeting today at least so that it can be on the agenda tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u11	Thank you very much. The senator gives false information because 10 senators signed the appeal, not all senators of the Civic Platform. That's one thing. Secondly, actually, Mr. Senator... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, these are facts, Mr. Senator. You have to look at the facts and talk about the facts. The content of this proposal is curiosable and very... I would never in my life agree to speed up work on an appeal that is written in a way... [[Voice from the room: Why do you judge...]] [[You don't have the authority to judge this text.]] I do, because if it says... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that there's been a homicide because of Polish origin... That's not true, we don't have that kind of data, and we can't... [[Are you a judge in Britain?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this discussion is closed. I don't see any reason for us to run it. Thank you very much. Would any of you like to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the agenda? Because those incidents were against the rules. There you go. No. Thank you very much. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. I would like to inform you that if the Sejm adopts a law amending certain laws at its current meeting to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases and after the senate committee has drawn up a report on this issue, the agenda will be supplemented by a point covering its examination. In addition, I inform you senators that the current Senate meeting has been extended until 23 September, which is until Friday. The meeting will begin at 9 a.m. on Friday. Tomorrow's session will begin at 11.00 a.m. with a point on the second reading of the draft resolution on support for citizens' initiatives to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. Immediately after considering this point, a vote will be taken on the matter. The remaining points will be voted tomorrow. We will proceed to the second item of the agenda for the Act on works concessions or services tomorrow. Today, at 12.00 a half-hour break will be ordered for the opening of the exhibition. The infantry regiment of the AK. Tomorrow, on Thursday, at 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break will be arranged for the opening of the exhibition "Grodna Defence 1939." We'll proceed to the... [[Voice from the room: Why don't we say goodbye to the delegation?]] Yes? Right now? But still... We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January 2016 (the Netherlands Presidency of the Council of the European Union). The text of the information is contained in print No 224. He addressed the information received to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. On 20 September 2016, the Commission examined the information and informed the Senate Marshal. I would like to welcome the State Secretary present at the meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Konrad Szymański. I ask the Minister to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators...]] Minister, wait a minute. Let's stop for a second. I would like to thank you very warmly for your presence and to say goodbye to the Senate delegation of the Kingdom of Malaysia with the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, to report.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Once again, I have the pleasure of standing before your House to present information on the work of the European Union, this time under the leadership of the Dutch Presidency. In line with the Presidency's declarations made at the beginning of the work on planning this half-year in the European Union's life, the Presidency focused on four key areas: migration and security; employment and the market; the euro area; climate and energy. Certainly, one of the key aspects of this six-month period was also efforts to establish new relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which unfortunately did not end with the result that we expected, as I will say at the very end of this speech. The issue of migration is no less important and still a key aspect of the European Union's policy. It should be noted that under the Dutch Presidency there has been a shift of emphasis on EU migration policy from the internal migration management instruments previously adopted to the development of a multifaceted migration policy or a European response to the migration crisis using external instruments. This was completely in line with the expectations of Poland, which from the outset pointed out to the partners in the European Union at individual summits, as well as at sectoral councils meetings, that these external instruments of migration policy are the right response to the migration crisis, that they have to offer not only an effective response to this migration crisis, a response in the form of an uncontrolled flow of migration at the external borders of the European Union, but also a very important political added value in terms of calming political tensions within the European Union and giving the European Union an opportunity to show political unity in the face of this crisis, which is certainly very serious, perhaps existential, and which certainly requires a European and not an individual response. Further summits have led to the development of political consensus around key aspects, key instruments of external migration policy. This was mainly due to the strong emphasis on humanitarian aid, development aid, the development of trade policy instruments towards those places which today are an important, important refuge for millions of displaced persons, very different status from the point of view of international humanitarian law, but displaced persons, people who, under the influence of usually very dramatic circumstances, have decided to leave their homes. According to UN data, there are about 60 million people in North Africa and the Middle East, and European responsibility, shared responsibility for the humanitarian response to this crisis is obvious. This does not mean that any proposed solution, in particular as regards internal migration management methods, could have an appropriate response and could have had the expected results. For the record, we're meeting almost exactly a year after we've made some pretty bad decisions about the relocation system. These decisions have been implemented by all Member States in no more than 3%. This speaks very much about whether the decisions proposed by the European Commission in September 2015 were thought through or not. During the Dutch Presidency, the regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard was also adopted in accordance with the wishes of the Heads of Government, and this was adopted very quickly, at an express pace, with an important Polish commitment to correcting this regulation. Protection of the external border, which is expressed not only in strengthening the European aspect of this protection, but also in providing the European Union's external border with such an instrument, which will allow us to say with a clear conscience that all who cross the Union's external border, regardless of their passport, whether it is a Schengen passport or a non-Schengen passport, or an EU or non-EU passport, or a visa-free country passport, or not... that any such passport will be substantially verified and the identity of a person crossing the Union's border or from the Union will be clearly identified, unambiguously identified. At the same time, it should be noted that at the same time, despite the transfer of a significant accent to the EU's external policy instruments, the Dutch Presidency did not refrain from introducing into the EU agenda a very controversial asylum reform plan, a reform of the Dublin system, despite a significant call from at least a few Member States to deal with the reform of the EU asylum system only when we can say that the Schengen system has returned to its functionality, that its functionality has been restored. The Dutch Presidency has decided to proceed with this project. In the coming months, it will certainly be one of the main challenges, one of the main causes of tensions between Member States in this area, because it contains mechanisms, although extraordinary, but mechanisms for internal management of migration through allocation, as well as some of the most controversial elements of a certain type of charge, which should be understood as penalties for not participating in this migration management system. A second aspect in this area, but a separate one, which I would like to emphasise very clearly, a separate aspect, because these matters should not be combined 100% of course, there is a strengthening of the European capacity to fight terrorism. As expected by the Member States in February 2016, an action plan for the exchange of information between Member States is being developed, but also between Member States and Union institutions such as Europol and Eurojust. As part of the European Union's external strategy, the recently adopted global strategy of the European Union, an action plan is adopted to strengthen the resilience of third countries, in particular the countries most at risk of terrorist activity outside the European Union, in order to strengthen their ability to respond to such threats. These are actions to strengthen the justice system, to fight corruption, to strengthen internal forces. Another important aspect, no less important from the Polish point of view, is the measures taken in the area of the common market and employment. On the one hand, we were dealing with the follow-up to the Digital Agenda, with full Polish support we were dealing with the most intense debate around geoblocking issues. On the other hand, we have had a very serious controversy, and this issue has not been completed, concerning a new directive, not the one we have recently implemented, but the new directive, which is to lay down new rules for posting workers. This directive does not, in our view, meet high social expectations in terms of the protection of posted workers... As we have recently agreed in the framework of the adoption of the implementation directive, we agreed that the rights of posted workers should be protected and we will not agree that, as a competitive advantage, unlawful practices should be treated as exploitation of persons who are very often unable to enjoy full legal protection outside the borders. The Posting of Workers Directive has different effects, has effects on reducing competition in the services market and restrictions on the freedom of movement of persons. This is how the provisions of the Directive should be understood, which not so much indicate minimum requirements, although we agreed that they are needed, as they aim to indicate the parameters of averaged employment contracts of this type. Among other things, the Polish initiative of 11 national parliaments, including this House, decided that a third time in the course of the Lisbon Treaty should object to the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. Unfortunately, the European Commission, despite the promised reflection process after the UK's exit from the European Union, considered that the opinion of 11 national parliaments, representing more than 100 million citizens of the Member States of the European Union, should not be taken into account and decided to continue working on this directive, which seems to meet the political expectations of some Member States from the internal political stage. We're still in the middle of preparatory work. Before the full start of the legislative procedure in this area, Poland will take a firm opposition position towards this project. During the Dutch Presidency, two processes related to the multiannual financial framework were also launched. Firstly, we are already in the process of reviewing the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020. We are here discussing the proper balance of the new political priorities so that they are adequately reflected in the budget. Poland is interested in the European Union's budget being able to support these elements of the new political agenda, new needs, the European Union's migration crisis needs. However, we do not agree that on this occasion, under this pretext, the objectives of the fundamental change in the logic of the multiannual financial framework, which was set in 2014. In principle, tension is about how to finance a policy of cooperation with third countries in the management of migration. From our point of view, all these costs should be placed, very clearly, in chapter three and chapter four of the European Union budget and should not affect other Treaty policies such as cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy. To this end, Poland reactivated the so-called. Group of Cohesion Policy's friends A wide group of countries that have traditionally advocated maintenance, although not necessarily in the same shape... I mean, we are open to talking about the reform of cohesion policy, but we are fundamentally interested in ensuring that cohesion policy remains one of the key dimensions of the European Union's budgetary policy. As regards the revision of the multiannual financial framework, Poland coordinated the work of the Visegrad Group, which was able to communicate its position before announcing the European Commission's communication on the subject. This position is largely represented in the Communication from the European Commission. The European Commission, when proposing a revision of the multiannual financial framework, is essentially sticking to those preferences that we have declared as a region. However, it is an open matter to change policies and how to finance new political priorities, which, as I said, Poland does not object. The third point worth mentioning is the euro area. We had to continue working on the Capital Markets Union and also try to restore work on the European Deposit Guarantee. On this issue, it is difficult to note any progress, both cases, in particular the latter, still raise very serious doubts between the countries of the northern euro area and those which represent, so to speak, the southern dimension of the euro area. It can be said that, in addition to the discussion, it is really a continuation of the discussion. We have not seen any significant breakthrough. The last thing I want to say The penultimate, if you take into account Brexit, the last of which, so to speak, regular issues It is a matter of climate and energy. In terms of energy, we have still unfinished... But there has been very significant progress with regard to the revision of the decision regulating the transparency of energy contracts. From a Polish point of view, it is important that the previous decision, which is a first step towards greater transparency on the market, in particular on the gas market, is strengthened to introduce mechanisms for controlling contracts before they are signed, not only after signature, and to be a well-balanced threshold from which this decision will apply. This case is the subject of ongoing controversy at the level of the Sectoral Council. The second important act on energy is the planned revision of the Security of Gas Supply Regulation. Here we have the mechanics of an anti-crisis response, a reaction to a certain degree of the community, which seems uncontroversial. However, the composition of regional groups which should plan such common scenarios remains an open issue, common responses to a situation where gas from one of the main access routes of gas infrastructure is no longer flowing. In the area of climate policy, we noted important preparations for ratifying the Paris Agreement, the Global Climate Agreement. The political events outside Europe, the breakthrough in China and the radical acceleration of the ratification procedure in the United States, have led us right now to be at the heart of the process of establishing an extraordinary path in the European Union, the path for environmental ministers to express unanimous agreement on ratification in the near future, the deposit of instruments for ratification of the Paris Agreement by the European Union, without the expectation of national ratification. This does not change the need for national ratification. From a Polish point of view, however, this is a very important moment, because on this occasion we take Today, right now, the ambassadors' meeting is in session. . Trying to clarify the rules of the game as regards the European Union's climate policy itself. It is difficult to assess what has happened in the last six months in Poland to adopt a position on a directive that regulates emissions outside the ETS. This directive is about restrictions that may affect different economic areas, in principle construction, transport and agriculture. From a Polish point of view, the key element in the negotiations on this issue was the reduction of all three emission reduction parameters, and the government considered that farmers were the most vulnerable group to possible changes in emission reduction obligations, and our political capital was mainly invested in reducing ammonia reduction rates, which was successful. This indicator has been lowered to the highest extent in relation to Poland, although this does not mean that we are satisfied with the whole regime that the European Union wants to introduce, because, as with every such commitment, we see a clear difference in the cost of these regulations in relation to the ability of the addressees to bear these costs. Two words about Brexit. This is of course much broader and deserves much more attention, but if we are talking about this in the context of the Dutch Presidency, I think it is important to point out that, regardless of what we think of the outcome of the British referendum, the European Union, in the first days after the referendum in the General Affairs Council and later at the EU 27 extraordinary summit, adopted a framework position In relation to the logic of the negotiations to be launched when the United Kingdom is ready for these negotiations It is completely in line with Polish expectations. Firstly, we want negotiations to take place on the EU table. Secondly, we look forward to this. For future relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom to be as close as possible. We are open to any scenario of political and economic convergence, but there is no willingness on the EU side, as expected in Poland, to make the new agreement a selective agreement, so that the new agreement in terms of the UK's relationship to the common market is unsustainable, so that it is unequal in terms of the rights and obligations of a third country, which will soon be the United Kingdom. In addition, in the EU's position 27, in the framework position for the negotiations that are to begin, it is clear that until the end of Britain's membership in the European Union, we expect all rights to be fulfilled, but also the UK's obligations under its Treaty position, which seems to be well understood, seems to be helpful to note in relation to the start of an extremely chaotic inter-British debate on the consequences and consequences of such a referendum. It is only worth noting that on 1 July, it is already outside the Presidency, but the decision was prepared during the Presidency. The European Union has decided to maintain sectoral sanctions against Russia. It is also worth noting that during the Dutch Presidency, the process of reviewing the European Neighbourhood Policy began, which is quite important because the events in the South cause a very important shift in the field of attention, somewhat to some extent objective shift of attention, including in the area of neighbourhood policy, to the South. From a Polish point of view, it is extremely important, of course, to maintain the geographical balance proportional to the challenges we have in the South and in the East. This is an old discussion. We are prepared to repeat it once again in the EU, but this issue is just gaining momentum. To sum up: Poland was extremely active and primarily involved in all these issues that I had just discussed, in particular in terms of changing the paradigm of migration policy. Seems like we're one step away. We are still waiting for true declarations on this issue, but it seems that we have the chance that we are very close to creating a new consensus on migration, in line with Polish expectations. We have been an extremely active participant in the debate on the shape of the common market, which will be announced, as an introduction to which is the discussion on the Posting of Workers Directive, but also a discussion that already goes far beyond the Netherlands, i.e. the discussion on policy calibration, the political agenda of the Union within the so-called Bratislava process. Poland is very active in the debate on the revision of the multiannual financial framework, recognising that the debate on the revision is really an introduction to a debate that seems remote because it concerns 2021, but it is really an introduction to the debate on logic, which will dominate the discussion on the new financial framework after 2020. Poland is extremely active in both energy and climate legislation. Moreover, for objective reasons, commonly known in Poland, we are one of the key countries in terms of shaping the EU's position on shaping new relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Thank you very much for your attention. I hope that possible shortcomings in this information will be completed during Question Time. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Should I stay here?]] Stay, yes, because I'm sure there will be questions for the Minister. I can see you're the first Marshal to come forward, Mr. Bogdan Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u14	Minister, I want to ask you why the government of Beata Szydło was not active during the Brexit campaign. There was no appeal to Poles living in the UK to vote against Brexit, although it was clear that Brexit... that it was a very negative situation for Poland. That's the first question. Second question: what is the attitude of the government of Beata Szydło to the TTIP negotiations, namely the European Union's trade zone negotiations with the United States? The various governments of the European Union speak in different places: some say that they must be stopped, others support them. The European Commission has also spoken on this issue. What is the attitude of the government of Beata Szydło to these negotiations? The third question also concerns Brexit. The United Kingdom gives its annual distribution of several billion euros. Will the European Commission have to change its budget, or not, when this merger is over 2 years after the negotiations? What do you think? I ask you kindly to answer these 3 questions. I would also like to say that the Deputy Minister is such a positive element of this foreign policy... [[Too bad it's the only one.]] Too bad it's the only one the government's running. Of course, I don't want you to have any problems, any problems, but I would like to say that I listened to your speech today with interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I remind you senators that you are currently asking questions. Questions should not last more than 1 minute. Minister, I ask you to answer the questions of your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u16	I understand that the role of the opposition is to get rid of the next government ministers as soon as possible. I accept it with the benefit of inventory. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Yes, sir, the best. Yeah, yeah.]] That's the division of roles between us... [[To make them the worst.]] ...so I'm gonna have to live with it. Thank you for the good word. As for the questions, here's what I'm gonna say. This referendum was intended, among other things, to check this question somewhere in the scenery of this referendum. If the British can make their own political choices. In my opinion, any attempt to intervene from the outside in the inter-British debate, in particular in the case of Poland, would be counterproductive. We have done everything we could, really everything we could to make it easier for Britain to function in the future renewed, reformed European Union. The European Union, with our consent and with its very active participation in shaping this offer, I will remind you here: in shaping the offer not only on social issues, because in this matter our ability to award concessions was actually very limited... We were not ready and we are still not ready to grant concessions on rights that belong to Polish taxpayers Not to emigrants, but to Polish taxpayers, Polish workers, Polish students On the British market. I admit that we are not inclined to make concessions in this area because we believe that this is an unjustified claim. This is a claim that comes from a very bad, wrong, economically unjustified perception of the common market. And in this respect, our position was clear. But in all other areas we have done a great deal, as Poland and as a Union. We have given far-reaching institutional guarantees as regards the control of the reform process of the euro area from the perspective of a non-euro area country such as the United Kingdom and Poland. This was of course beneficial for both of us, but it took a great deal of effort at the European Council level to really find consensus on this issue. We have also done a great deal to send a signal that the future design and future integration logic will change in such a way as not to create the impression that the extent of sovereignty, the scope of political freedom of the UK or any other country will be radically limited. The reflection of this discussion was the provisions on the future logic of integration and relationship or the interpretation of the writing ever closer union. We have done a great deal to make a declaration by the Joint Heads of Government And this can't be done any more seriously. There are provisions on an ambitious trade policy, an ambitious agenda for the common market, which is what was absolutely crucial for the UK. And rightly, from our point of view, this is also absolutely crucial and it would be better for the European Union to be involved in the implementation of the common market, not with many other things on its side. I think that Poland has shown a far-reaching commitment and far-reaching empathy towards the British problems that have arisen on the British political scene, but I also think it would not be wise to do anything more. I think interference in the internal British debate on what to do with the future of your own country, such interference from the outside, would be counterproductive from the very nature of this debate. Because this debate was also about this. Anyway, think about the opposite situation: what if, in the case of Poland and an important reference choice, such a key enough to say strategic, someone from the external stage began to enter this debate and say what is good for Poles, how Poles should vote, what is good for all of us, etc.? Because you can choose rhetoric differently. This can be worn e.g. so that this is about our shared responsibility, because the Union is shared. But one way or another, it would be by a large part of the public perceived as something not right. I think that the public, the nation, the political community has the right to expect that in certain matters it is able to have such a discussion simply among itself, even if it has consequences, if the decision on this matter has consequences beyond the borders of the United Kingdom. As far as TTIP is concerned, of course Poland is interested in ensuring that transatlantic ties are as close as possible to political, military and economic relations. It is a kind of subsoil of a political bond, something that cannot be written directly into the treaties. A sense of communion of fate. This requires political, military, but also economic convergence. This does not mean that Poland is willing to speed up or accept the outcome of negotiations that are taking place at EU level. The European Union, which conducts trade policy and has exclusive competence in trade policy, knows at least two things. Firstly, he knows that from a Polish point of view it will be very difficult to take note of an agreement that will be unsustainable in terms of the position of the energy-intensive industry, in terms of standardisation and agri-food production, and it will be very difficult to find a proper agreement if we do not have institutional guarantees in the area of dispute settlement In all these three areas Poland is extremely committed and our position is completely known and not isolated. The second point that the European Union knows perfectly well is that, whether we speed up or slow down these negotiations, the agreement will have to return to the Polish Parliament either way. And that is, among other things, the reason why we encourage all parties to this process, this agreement Because, as I understand it, it's all about getting some kind of agreement after this difficult process. In order to take account of the fact that this agreement will have to be defended by every national parliament in the European Union, including the Polish Parliament. And that's our position on this. In short: the speed of this process, which is of some importance due to what is happening, to potential political changes in Europe, in the United States... Well, that's what you have to live with. Formal procedures cannot be avoided by the consequences of the political changes that are taking place both in Europe and in the United States. In this sense, the speed of this process is not the primary value for us. The main value of this process is the quality of the agreement obtained. Brexit and the budget. It is very clear: the sooner the United Kingdom ceases to be a Member State of the European Union, the sooner its responsibilities will cease, including the financing of the European Union budget. I don't think it's going to happen very quickly, because we, on the EU side, have seen it a little earlier, I have the impression that on the British side this awareness is growing with every month The process will be very difficult, so I do not think it will happen very quickly. But if it comes before the end of the commitments from the financial framework for the period 2014-2020, it is quite obvious from the Polish point of view that the loss of the British contribution is, I stress: from our point of view, the increase in the membership contribution should be covered, including the Polish membership contribution. However, this has an incomparably lower financial impact than cutting expenditure. In case of expenditure cuts We have a significantly higher risk of significant losses in terms of the possibility of financing programmes in Poland. This bill is obvious and this is the position we will be presenting. And the moment when it will have to be recounted is, of course, the moment when Britain's membership of the European Union will cease, which may not happen so soon.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u17	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Bogdan Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u18	Minister, I will refer to what was just before Brexit and to the government's attitude towards Brexit's consequences. In my opinion, the Government of Law and Justice has made two fundamental mistakes, such as will affect our country's interests in the future. Firstly, he made a mistake with high hopes for Cameron and his government before a referendum was held in the United Kingdom, because you should have assumed that Cameron's gambit might not have been effective and that the UK might indeed have spoken out of the European Union. After all, it's just getting involved with a country that's been in recent years. And we both remember this from the time we were in Brussels, and it was a mistake for Poland to be able to support the central trends in the European Union. Secondly, it was a mistake that this partner did not guarantee the maintenance of benefits for those Polish citizens who were in the UK during the election campaign, in case the United Kingdom came out of the Union. The referendum is a fact, the UK will step out of the European Union, the benefits for our citizens will change in a fundamental way... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a few questions.]] ...when it comes to social affairs in the UK. And my question to the Minister is, how are these two mistakes going to be fixed right now? First of all, what are you going to do with your partnership with Britain? Secondly, what are you going to do for our citizens who decide to stay in the UK? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u19	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u20	It is very difficult for me to assess the hopes or lack of hope associated with this or another government. The UK government is an external institution towards the Polish state, so we did not have any excessive hopes or lack of hope as regards David Cameron's policy of releasing air from the voltage balloon, which was created in any way in relations between Great Britain and the European Union. Today we know how it ended, but this is a matter which is entirely the responsibility of British leadership, the British government. At no stage have we been involved in shaping such or other policies in the field of purely internal affairs. We certainly did not propose that a referendum be drawn up on the membership of the United Kingdom in the European Union. In order to understand the background of this issue, it is worth noting that this referendum was really inevitable, that it was a referendum anyway. On the rubble of the Conservative Party or not It would have to be written down at last. It was only a matter of time since, contrary to some European studies, dissatisfaction with the relationship between Great Britain and the European Union is an objective fact. This is a growing and lasting problem, and in an open democracy such a fact cannot be pushed out of the debate as a result of such or other procedural acts. When it comes to partnership with Great Britain, let us remember that the European Union is not the whole world or the whole of Europe. This is a very important layer of our relationship in Europe, but not the only one. The United Kingdom remains an important country on the European map; it remains a key country on the map of European NATO; it remains a country without which the expected adaptation of NATO to changing conditions in the East would not be possible; it remains a country which is a permanent member of the UN Security Council; it remains a very important trading partner There's nothing different about this place. In fact, the challenge from our point of view today is to maintain as much as possible in a balanced way as possible from the relationship between Britain and the European Union, but of course there is one reservation: this is not the Polish negotiating objective, it must be the British negotiating objective. It has to be based on a British decision. And that's what Britain wants us to do. As far as the rights of Polish citizens are concerned, this issue is de facto on the agenda of every Polish-British contact, and these contacts have recently been very many, also at the level of prime ministers. United Kingdom But also the European Union is fully aware that we have acquired rights of EU citizens 27... This is not only about Polish citizens, because this is a broader problem, a systemic problem. We do not regard the rights acquired by Polish and other EU citizens in the Islands as a negotiating issue. This case is not being negotiated. The rights acquired by their very nature must be respected if the United Kingdom expects the rights acquired by British citizens to be respected on the continent. This mutual dependence seems to be a very good basis for shaping the realistic expectations of both sides in the future order. There is much more British citizens on the continent than EU 27 citizens in the UK and they have certain expectations regarding access to social security and health services. These are legitimate expectations, which from our point of view should certainly be met, but they will only be met if the full symmetry of the protection of rights acquired on both sides of the channel is maintained. As for the future situation of people who are just going to the UK as workers, entrepreneurs, students... Let us remember that contrary to what often sounded like in the referendum campaign, Poles and other Europeans migrating to the Islands are not necessarily just workers who are looking for an advantage over their competitors, expecting low wages, this picture is simplified, to say the most delicately. We want the scope of rights and the position on the market of Polish students, employees and companies to correspond to what is the subject of British expectations towards the Community market. And that, too, seems to me, clear, simple, fully justified principle, which enjoys complete understanding within the European Union. But of course, the condition, the factor X we don't know, is the extent of British expectations. We know well that some British politicians propose radical cooling or bringing these union-British relations to a level, let's say, WTO. In this situation, of course, the scope of European pressure will be limited. But this is a decision belonging to the British because we are talking about a situation where the United Kingdom is becoming a third country towards the European Union and can actually with its market, with its economy, do what it wants. I think they need time to count whether it's really worth it or if it really makes sense. But in politics, sometimes things aren't quite sensible and rational, so you have to deal with every scenario. We're prepared for every scenario. At Union level We also take care of one thing: for the Union to be prepared for each of these scenarios and to ensure that the EU response is symmetrical and proportionate to such or other British offer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u21	Thank you, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u22	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I would ask you to run into the future a little bit. Namely, in the context of the last summit in Bratislava, the practice and discussion to date on the resolution of the immigrant crisis in the period you are talking about, from January to June 2016, I would like to ask you if you see any breakthrough in the approach of major European players to this problem, and if so, in what direction. Are the directions currently being developed, which you seriously think about, in line with the expectations of our diplomacy and our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u23	I don't want to set a precedent, maybe too established, and talk about things that aren't related to the Dutch Presidency, but I'll make an exception. We're fresh from the summit of Bratislava, where it's scratched... It wasn't the summit where the decisions were made. It was a summit with a political declaration on how to plan the decisions taken at the regular European summits in October, December and spring. We agree that after Brexit... That's what this summit was all about. The idea was to interpret what happened after Brexit and think about how to shape the future of the European Union so that it would be a little safer. First of all, we agreed that the European Union should focus on the issues it brings together. Regular political conflicts Large-scale conflicts, not sectoral ones that are normal They do not create an impression of seriousness and do not create an impression of predictability of what can happen to the Union. We agreed that it would be worth doing this review of initiatives and choosing those that clearly connect Member States rather than those that create even more tensions. Secondly, we agreed that these initiatives must be important to citizens. The public should feel that the Union is dealing with things that are really important to people, not things that are perhaps important to the Union. It doesn't always have to be so strict... sometimes citizens can have a different scale of importance and ignore things that maybe sound foggy to them, they're too technical, although they're important. And so on. Internal market strategies. They probably do not warm up to the redness of civil debates, but they are important and work on them needs to continue. On the basis of all of this, a document has been created which, in my opinion, opens the way for a radical revision of the European Union's migration policy and, in particular, withdraw from all elements of internal migration management and leave it to the Member States. That's the way it should be, because we're talking about responsibility for borders, security. We're talking about a refugee policy that shouldn't be communed. On the other hand, the document opens the door to this new agreement There is talk of broadening consensus. That does not exclude European solidarity, of which we do not want to leave, and does not exclude joint action so that the European external border is safe but not necessarily closed. Because it's no one's intention to lock her up. The point is to control her. In my opinion, that's a great idea. This offers an opportunity to restore unity, to shape European solidarity in the right way, to shape it as it should operate in crises that are difficult and disproportionately hit some countries today, such as Italy or Greece. At the same time, it gives us a chance to clean up the political situation and move forward with other, less troublesome things. But it depends on the other side. Right? The other side must want that agreement. If the other side doesn't want this agreement, we'll be stuck in the same place for as long as... If we're ready to be stuck like this for the next two, three, five or ten years, if that's what anybody wants, go ahead. I just don't know if it's good for the Union. I think it's risky for the Union. This is risky in terms of efficiency in responding to the migration crisis, because internal governance mechanisms do not have any effect. But as I say, it's not just up to us. For our part, an offer has been made to reconstruct such an agreement on terms that can be convenient for everyone and which can be, most importantly, effective. Will this offer be accepted? It doesn't belong to us anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u24	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the senators to ask questions about our country's participation in the work of the European Union between January and June 2016, because the Minister provided information on this subject. Do you want to ask the senator if he wants to sign up for the next round of questions? [[Sign me up.]] Okay, I'll put in a senator. Now, I ask you to ask Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u25	I have three questions. To the first question I would ask, if I could, for an answer in writing, because the matter is really important. When the Donetsk Consulate is eliminated... [[Where?]] In Donetsk. ... His role was taken over by the consulate in Kharkov. This is the consulate currently serving 1/3 of the territory of Ukraine. There were very large personal problems, personal shortages, and therefore a very long waiting time for a visa, up to 3 and 4 months, also associated with the so-called. a computer system. Has anything been done in this regard, or has there been any change? What is the visa waiting time currently in this so-called visa. A queue? Is that still three or four months? There's a second thing to do with it. Did Poland and the European Union, however it was said to abolish visas for Ukrainians... What is being done in this direction? Why is this so important? Because we would like to get young people from there who want to, for example. with us to teach, but at such a time of waiting for a visa, if you need to return, to get a renewed visa, these people are not able to return because they wait too long in queue for a re-entry visa to Poland. And the third point I'd like to hear from you. In 1994, during the decommissioning of Ukraine's nuclear potential, the United Kingdom, the United States and Russia granted it a guarantee of the integrity of the borders. The United Kingdom and the United States are part of the military pact we belong to. When that limit integrity is over, we're watching today. Is there anything in the European Union about granting guarantees to other countries, military guarantees, and how the European Union refers to the borders being violated, in this particular aspect • granting guarantees when eliminating nuclear potential?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u26	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u27	Because of the declarations made in 1994, neither the United States nor the United Kingdom nor even the entire European Union, which was not a party to this agreement, does not recognise the change of Ukraine's borders. It's a natural political consequence, and I don't think there's any place in the world that's willing to accept such a change. This is the reason why Europe, the United Kingdom, the United States is ready to engage in standardisation initiatives on the Ukrainian-Russian conflict. As regards visa-free travel with Ukraine, this issue remains one of the key elements of the neighbourhood agenda. From a Polish point of view, in addition to an agreement somewhat blocked by the Dutch referendum, in addition to an association agreement, an association agreement which cannot fully enter into force due to the results of the Dutch referendum, this issue is one of the key issues for completion. These are formally technical issues, but we know well that they have enormous political consequences. Going back to Bratislava for a while... I think that certain arrangements for strict control of the identity of persons crossing the border, including those who hold passports of visa-free countries, can help to obtain more political agreement to speed up this process. Because one of the elements that are destroying the consensus on visa-free travel today in Europe is, of course, the growing sense of danger, the growing security problem, which is closely linked to the control of the external border also towards those who have a visa-free country passport, including those who have an EU passport to make it clear. The openness of internal borders does not prejudice that, at the external border, the holder of the European passport should also not be controlled, carefully controlled, with regard to his identity. As regards consular care in Ukraine, this is not my sphere of responsibility in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I will pass on this matter to Minister Dziedziczak, who is responsible for consular care issues, and we will try to answer this question in writing as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u28	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u29	Mrs Marshal, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for a very clear and clear message on what we have been doing in the last six months in the European Union. This is a very concrete speech, very clear, and we are very proud of the Minister that you represent us in Europe. I would like to return to the matter that was discussed in the Senate for a moment, and in this case we have also taken an appropriate opinion, a resolution, on posted workers. The Minister said that the European Commission has undertaken further work, despite the opposition of many countries, as if it were still active. Not long ago in Bratislava, I spoke with the President, the Commissioner from Romania in the European Union, who very strongly stressed the Romanian position and enjoyed our inter-parliamental cooperation. Minister, I would like to ask about possible scenarios related to this directive. The European Commission decides to continue to work on this. What does that mean for us? What can we do in this situation? How can we effectively counter a directive that significantly limits the ability of Polish players to compete in the countries of the European Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u30	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u31	A relatively recent consultation on the Polish position has taken place on the ongoing work, regular legislative work in the area of the Second Posting of Workers Directive. Honestly, as far as this text is concerned, the new form of the directive, unlike the first text, the text of the old directive, for which we have been able to find a compromise, solutions which are annoying and still, in my opinion, not necessarily necessary, but with which one can live, I personally do not see the areas in which one could look for solutions that have the merit of a compromise. In fact, all the key provisions of this directive go only towards regulating the market for services and the provision of work. It is difficult for me to imagine records, solutions that could reconcile 2 parties to a completely frontal dispute, and this is a dispute that goes beyond the question of posting workers. We will deal with this discussion all the time, for the next few months, maybe years. In a large part of Western European countries, the value of the common market in the provision of services and work is being undermined. If the electoral calendar brings us further reinforcement of this position, we will face constant pressure to limit the Community market in this area. This will be a very serious challenge for Polish diplomacy, for Polish European policy, but also for the European construction itself, because undermining the common market in one place will free the appetite to undermine the common market elsewhere. In this situation, it is very easy to imagine the situation in which the entire common market is practically decomposing, which seems to be a existential threat to the European Union. This will, of course, also be a challenge for the countries of Central Europe, which are primarily interested in ensuring that the single market for services is preserved and that freedom of movement remains guaranteed. Looking at the last, say, 10 years, I think that all these countries, and certainly Poland, have done a lot to raise labour protection standards to raise social standards. The statements from the discussions that took place in the 1990s, during which it was said that the Central European countries were simply not interested, that they were interested in a very tacky type of competition on the basis of lack of labour protection or lack of social protection, are now simply obsolete. Some social benefits in Poland are comparable to benefits in Western Europe, which is a huge effort for the budget. Therefore, this old argument can no longer be abused. We're trying to explain to our partners that these are the arguments that have faded. In any case, the political pressure, built in a rather loose connection with economic realities, to decompose the common market, to say the least, is growing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u32	Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If I may, I would ask the Minister for such information. Cohesion policy is perhaps one of the main policies of the European Union. The Minister mentioned our active role here, and this is mentioned in the report. Could you tell the minister if we're alone here, or do we have allies? I ask because this is an important element for the future, development of Poland, also in the context of meeting standards when it comes to infrastructure. That's the first question. The second question concerns energy policy. Minister, the transparency of contracts is a very important element that the Minister has pointed out, and what is in the report is also important. Could you speak on the issue of Nord Stream 2? Do we have any chance here? Who's supporting us? What are the positions of the other countries of the European Union? I would also like a few words about the Energy Union project. Is this something that's already close to perspective? A few sentences on this subject, if I may, I'd like to ask the Minister. And the third question. Minister, you mentioned that when Britain leaves the Union, the best solution is to raise contributions. Are there any estimates of the size of these contributions yet? I ask because it will have consequences, among others. for Poland. And one last short question. This is already a new period, but... the Minister has talked a lot about migration issues here. The Minister's assessment... Because this second option, mentioned by the Minister, seems the most reasonable and, I think, acceptable also by Poles. How does the Minister assess the opportunities of this project to establish common elements of migration policy rather than internal governance? Are we isolated here again, or is there any understanding in the other countries of the European Union on this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u34	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u35	With regard to changing the accent or at all the nature of the European response to the migration crisis, we are certainly not alone. There is a very large group of countries that are openly interested in this. Almost no country... In fact, no country, as it should be said, is fulfilling any relocation obligations. Practice is therefore an extremely important argument on our side. Is that gonna happen? This depends on the willingness of the other party, also the willingness to bear the costs of withdrawing from the very many political declarations that have already been made on this matter. It is certainly not that the Member States are just waiting to get off this topic. However, I think that maintaining political tension on this issue is not good for the European Union as a whole. And on this aspect I also pointed out that if today actually... And we share the view that the European Union should refresh the political agenda so that political tensions can be as little as possible. And the tension in migration policy and the importance of the migration crisis for the political stability of the Member States, for the political stability of the Union, is one of the two key issues. The first is, of course, tension in the euro area. And the other is migration. In my opinion, we have on the table, so to speak, a very simple road map that allows us to get out of this tension, close this issue and deal with the issues that unite us, issues on which we can carry out joint initiatives. And it's already been proven. Because Polish border crossings have been on many sections of the external border of the Union for a very long time, which are not sections of the Polish border. Poland was extremely constructive at the beginning, but as a result a constructive participant in the accelerated process path in the field of the European Border and Coast Guard. We've shown our goodwill. If anyone wanted to see it, he had a chance to see it. Of course, if someone doesn't want to see it, they'll never see it. But if anyone wants to see the real picture of the migration debate, they should pay attention to it. Poland has been a midwife of an extremely difficult, extremely fragile agreement between the Union and Turkey, considering that this case does not directly concern us, because we do not feel the direct consequences of the fact that the Greek border is uncontrolled. But the indirect consequences for Poland are very important. We admit in the international forum that we have... It is in our best interest that this matter no longer be a matter which destabilizes the European Union. It therefore appears that this proposal is reasonable, meaningful, and has the advantage of effectiveness. As far as the amount of the contribution is concerned, the evaluation must be carried out at the time when we have a real deadline for the cessation of membership on the horizon. Today it's hard to tell when it's gonna happen. I must say, I don't think that's possible before the end of the multiannual financial framework. But anything is possible. The British position in this case is still extremely enigmatic, even with regard to the notification of the article. 50. We have different voices on this matter. One thing is certain: Britain today does not have a clear opinion on what is optimal and at which point can we afford to implement this extremely difficult mechanism. It is only now that various signals are received, also from the outside world, about the consequences of Brexit. This is somehow linked to the debates that we are debating in the EU. Because it turns out that the possibility of very deep entry into the world trade system, into this most advanced architecture of international trade by a country even as big as Britain is not as simple. The external partners of Canada, the United States, Japan and the United States expect the United Kingdom to be a member of the common market in an open way, because it simplifies the issue, it gives a much higher level of predictability and security for very large investments. Japan was the first country to say it publicly and officially Not by diplomatic channels on the G20 forum. This strongly strengthens the European Union's negotiating position in this dispute, because the external world's reluctance to radically change the structure of trade relations with Europe as one where the European Union is now a key point of reference, certainly strengthens our position. When it comes to transparency in correlation with Nord Stream, of course this is closely related. Arming the European Union with instruments of very strong supervision of energy contracts allows this investment to have more difficult development conditions. There's a clear correlation here. But before such mechanisms arise and before it turns out that Nord Stream 2 must be .. such scenarios are also on the table. Substituted by an intergovernmental agreement or an agreement between the Union and Russia... I get the feeling that no one's into this to be a party to a deal like this, but let's imagine a scenario like this. Then, obviously, the elements of transparency would be conducive to our expectations as to the shape of the market, because Nord Stream 2 should not be interpreted in isolation from the entire architecture of the market. Nord Stream 2 is one of the essential elements of this future architecture if it is realized, but its impact is negative Not on Poland, because Poland will manage relatively well in the whole situation, but in the shape of the gas market throughout Central Europe, from Tallinn to Zagreb Mostly because it breaks down the process of deregulation of this market, it breaks down the process of making this market more competitive, more open and, as a result, creating a market that is a customer market. We still do not have this situation in Central Europe, and I fear we will not have it if an investment such as Nord Stream 2 is carried out, contrary to these expectations. Poland is, of course, one of the key countries in the consultation with the European Commission. We are very closely following what the European Commission is doing with stakeholders and how it interprets its own responsibilities in this matter. I can say that it interprets them in a vague way, we would expect more clarity in the interpretation and position of the European Commission on this matter. The position of the Polish Office for Competition and Consumer Protection was very helpful in the whole process, but I cannot write this into the account of the actions of Poland, because it is an independent constitutional office which defined its role in this matter and carried out a very effective procedure on this issue. And the first question was cohesion. Yes? The future of cohesion. This is a treaty policy, so I think it's gonna be very difficult to put it in the drawer suddenly, because it would have to change the treaty, and that, as you know, is a scenario very undesirable by many of our partners. So it's gonna be hard to put it in the drawer. But I imagine a situation where, first of all, it is destitute, and secondly, it is so reformed that it ceases to serve the cohesion that we need. We recreated the so-called. a group of cohesion policy's friends. At the very beginning of this study, this group was recreated. We are taking part in regular consultations, I think 9 countries, maybe there are more now. So this pressure is. Within the Visegrad Group, in connection with the revision of the budget of the multiannual financial framework for this mid-term, we have developed a position that is fully in line with our expectations. We place a very strong emphasis on all the budget reforms that are of course needed and necessary... In many cases, there is full agreement that there is no point in defending the status quo, but this reform cannot take place at the expense of, among others. cohesion policy, certainly not at the expense of such a form of agricultural policy, which will give the highest possible privileges of law to the Polish agricultural sector. In some ways, in the discussion of how to treat internal migration in the European Union, cohesion policy is a handy argument, because we, defending the common market, recognising that the common market is worth defending it, even though sometimes it hurts, because, to be honest, some of the freedoms of the common market sometimes make it difficult to implement our own plans... So we stand very firm in the position of integrity of the common market and defence of the common market, and if someone has a problem with the fact that there is some, suppose, disproportionate or unexpected movement of labour or services from one corner of the Union to another, we say: if you want to stop this alleged non-proportionality, which in fact is not any non-proportionality, because this is the natural operation of the market, if you want it less, then with us Don't just do whatever it takes to make social convergence faster. Because social inequalities are the main reason people migrate. They do not migrate for fun, just because they do not see the possibility of proper and expected development. So if we want to approach this problem together and do everything we can to make sure that people have less reason to migrate, then let's do more. We've done a lot. This isn't about suggesting nothing happened here. A great deal has happened on this issue, but let us do even more so that social convergence will stop the strong migratory pressure, which is directly linked to the living conditions within the European Union. This is the line that we present in various forums dealing with the future of the budget. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u36	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u37	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd go back to the TTIP contract, I guess that's what it's called. I read in the report: Poland is in favour of a broad and ambitious agreement and has been actively involved in the work on the agreement over the last 6 months. And then it is written on the same page that the draft report on the foreseeable effects of the agreement states that as a result of TTIP, Poland was among the countries that would have the least in terms of its economic potential. The question is, is this deal worth it or not? Because in the light of the critical articles that have appeared in the press in terms of pressure, the impact of American agriculture on our agriculture, in general on European agriculture, but ours in particular... The second question concerns the CETA agreement. The Seym will work on drafts of three resolutions, which aim to ensure that this agreement is ratified in a normal manner and not outside the parliament, outside the national parliaments. Is it the same... I'd ask you to explain to us what the game is actually about when it comes to CET, and if it's the same danger. we are threatened with the TTIP agreement, i.e. an attempt will be made to bypass the national parliament, to deal with it on the European Union line. The United States, which does not always have to be in line with Polish interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u39	In such cases, trade agreements go beyond a purely commercial dimension. They have a very important factor in standard-setting, market rules, so it cannot be said that these are simple trade agreements in which the European Union could claim exclusive competence... the exclusive dominance of the ratification process. In my view, there is no doubt that both agreements will have to be ratified at EU and national level because both agreements are mixed. Our basic conviction that transatlantic bonds should be strengthened Both political, military and economic It does not argue that certain difficult issues must be raised in the negotiation process from our point of view. As I said, these are essentially three points. The first is the agricultural position, the agri-food production standards. The second is the position of the energy-intensive industry due to significant differences in prices of energy carriers in the United States. This is partly linked to the call for liberalisation of the energy market between Europe and the United States, with the creation of the LNG market for Europe, including for Świnoujście. The third is a procedural issue, i.e. arbitration. All these issues are perceived and raised by Poland during negotiations. Without dealing with these issues in the way we expect, it is difficult to imagine the positive development of the events related to this agreement, in particular that these are problems raised not only by Poland. Poland is not a lonely country here As far as agriculture is concerned, there are many countries which have even more stringent interests, such as the designation of the origin of the products.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Always with interest, Minister, I listen to your substantive statements. I won't praise you again, because I know it would be a kiss of death... I can't, but I'm joining this opinion. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Thank you very much.]] Minister, I am a border man, where very often you see emigrants who come to Poland for groceries. I spoke to a general who's been guarding our border lately. He gave me very interesting information about the fact that most of the emigrants who are quite often under personal control have a cartel in their possession, which clearly shows that their Poland is completely not interested, that they are primarily interested in the countries of the old Union. Therefore, my question is: wouldn't it be worth taking advantage of... Since we have a quota and we are arguing with the European Union about the number of migrants 'Cause I didn't hear exactly how many emigrants we're supposed to take in our country. Wouldn't it be worth taking advantage of this limit and dealing with this matter, which is both sides? Because so de facto and de iure, they're not going to be in our country. And my second question, Minister. I've been an entrepreneur for years, I have different contacts and others. so I know that many young people have established companies in the UK. Would you mind telling me how, in this situation, when the United Kingdom has left the Union, those who have established companies in the Union will function? Because it's... I'm curious to ask because we discussed this and many people couldn't answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u42	Yes, the degree of economic activation of the Polish community in the UK is unfortunately much higher than Poles in Poland, which can be interpreted very differently, but this is a fact. Firstly, if these are companies that have legal personality, they are British companies, so because of this ownership arrangement I do not expect Brexit to bring any dysfunction in this area. But on the other hand, it is a matter or aspect of a case that concerns acquired rights. And that's why, speaking of Brexit here, I kept saying that it wasn't just about emigrants, it was about people in very different situations, including entrepreneurs. And I think that in the Polish debate it should also be strongly emphasized that it is about the status of very different social groups, including entrepreneurs. And in terms of acquired rights, my position has already been presented twice here and this is also the position of the government. We are very clear at EU and British level that acquired rights should not be negotiated. This can only be the subject of symmetrical guarantees. And it would be good if these symmetrical guarantees were reported on both sides as soon as possible. I understand the political circumstances that make a very short list of politicians in the UK who would like to show off as the first to make such a rational request, but this expectation on our part is permanent. As regards the fulfilment of the commitments resulting from the September relocation decisions, this cannot be done by this route, because these decisions concern those strictly designated, from the areas of Greece and Italy. And we do not agree to this not only because we think it is a bad idea, because these people do not choose Poland as their destination country, but also because we do not agree to it for essential reasons: we believe that this decision is a wrong decision, the decision in this area should never be taken by majority vote. For this reason, we want a policy revision, not a side door to this problem, which has long gone over the scale of the problem as such. Because we're really talking about an emigration problem here, but we can't solve it with these methods. And we stick to this discussion only because both sides view this dispute as a dispute about the principle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u43	Thank you. I don't see Senator Gary in the O.R. Therefore, I would like to ask Senator Rulewski about the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I think I have three questions. First: do you not think that Poland showed very little activity during the referendum period? E.g. Hungarian Prime Minister took the initiative towards the participants of the referendum, and Poland, which had an even greater interest in mitigating... the UK's remaining in the Union due to at least one million of our citizens arriving there, did not take any initiative. In particular, Poland did not strengthen the position of the European Union when it was able to anticipate and even anticipate that there would be tensions in relations between our citizens in the UK and the British, as we are experiencing today. Please answer whether this plea is sufficiently substantiated. The second question is: is there any vision resulting from the work during the Dutch presidency of the relationship between England and Brexit, the UK of Pobrexito, and other countries, in particular Poland, which is probably the largest contractor there in terms of the presence of... What can be the result? Is there a plan that if there are one-sided, unfavorable relations for Polish citizens living in England, showing pressure on Poles to emigrate until the acts of xenophobia ended with murder, then Poland will introduce some restrictions on the UK? And third question, last question. Don't you think that the government's actions in this area may be... Well, I'm sure they're slim or impossible to realize. Don't you think that the parliaments of both countries should work towards a good, healthy, European relationship between the UK and Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u45	Parliaments, of course, play a role, particularly in Europe. As far as parliamentary diplomacy is concerned, there are established methods of communication, there is a Polish-British group... [[Dead.]] I can't add or recommend anything because it goes far beyond my competence. As far as relations between the Union and the United Kingdom are concerned, after Brexit, I have touched on this problem. We're ready... We're even interested in this. And I think it's a rational solution for both sides. This relationship should be as close as possible in political, economic terms. But this cannot be regarded as a Polish negotiating objective, but it must be a British negotiating objective. It is the United Kingdom that has to decide on a version of its relationship with the European Union, and it is the United Kingdom that needs to reflect on the conditions and rights and obligations associated with such or other closeness to Europe. Of course, it's no secret that we're interested in it, because it's mutual charity. Although not all countries belong to the European Union, the countries of Europe And, more broadly, the West should look for methods of cooperation that would guarantee the unity of the West, and the United Kingdom is an important element in this case. But it really must be a British demand, the British must know that they really want it and must be willing to pay a certain price for it. From our point of view, it is not possible to adopt an agreement that will be unsustainable. And it is not possible to adopt the rules of the game, which will consist in choosing those aspects of the common market that someone has invented, not only because it is wrong, but also because it would be a terrible precedent to encourage the repetition of such a mechanism in the future. And countries that are not quite comfortable in the European Union are more than one. We do not want to accelerate the process of seeking a completely comfortable, selective position with regard to relations with the European Union. I totally disagree with you about that, too. The Polish government is expected to be actively and officially present in the referendum campaign in the UK. I believe that this would only have consequences that would be contrary to our expectations. I share the conviction that it would be good for the outcome of the referendum to be different for many different reasons. However, this referendum also concerned whether British people can rule themselves, so any vote from the outside, in my opinion, would only be an exemplification of the fact that relations in the European Union are not quite healthy, because some foreign prime minister with the legitimacy of some foreign parliament is beginning to have an opinion on matters that belong to them. Poland has done everything it can to prepare political conditions for the UK. Together with the Union, we have given the UK a very clear signal that we want to listen to its objections and we want to respond to them in substance. The European Union has actually responded in substance to criticism for the first time. Unfortunately, it turned out that other arguments were too late. Very often such is the beauty of referendum acts. You have to live with it. I think we've done everything we can, and our commitment to making this thing go well is above average. [[Excuse me, in addition, I wasn't suggesting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u46	Microphone, Mr. Senator. [[Please?]] Turn on the mike, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u47	I'm sorry, thank you. I wasn't suggesting that the government intervenes directly and participates in the campaign. After all, Poland is more than a government; they are among others. Parliamentarians, scientific, intellectual environments, journalists are ordinary people or representatives of associations active in immigration. I believe that in this case, the government's activity of inspiring, hinting was low. Perhaps the government was guided by an alliance with a conservative British party, and that was why these actions were hindered.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u48	No. I think that the alliance with the British Conservative Party does not in any way affect the field of manoeuvre of the Polish government. If we are talking about non-governmental organisations, about the civic sphere of life, then the civic sphere must take the measures it considers appropriate. Apparently, she felt that action was appropriate to the extent to which it was taken. It is not true that these actions were not at all. After all, the Poles in Great Britain were very clear about what they wanted. Besides, not everyone thought that staying Britain in the Union was the best solution, because we are dealing with different opinions there. We are a free society in which different opinions appear, and so is the UK. But in my opinion, this should happen spontaneously. I didn't answer about xenophobic attacks. Of course, this is a very sad development. However, I would be as far away as possible from suggesting any, even partial responsibility of the British Government for such developments. We have to understand the scale of this. I have the impression that this matter at intergovernmental level, also at the level of multiple contacts already made by Prime Minister Szydło and Prime Minister May, has been put up and we have no doubt that the British Government feels the highest responsibility for preventing such acts from happening. Of course, our role is to remind you of this, our role is to look for common solutions, perhaps more active ones, and this has happened. We have actually had an unprecedented visit from ministers, a very rapid response from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Home Affairs. We are in permanent contact, already at a very working level, on how to shape security issues in particular with regard to the protection of migrants in the UK, which is very much in order to respond properly. I am convinced that the British justice system will be as it has been so far. And let's remember that Britain is a very sensitive country in this respect. He was very strict in assessing cases of xenophobic-motivated violence. I have no doubt about the British government's goodwill in this matter. But, of course, we're gonna be monitoring this case all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u49	Thank you very much. Senator Oremski... Sorry, first Senator Augustine and then Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u50	Minister, we are still informed that Poland's position in the European Union is incomparably weaker than not so long ago. The European Union is founded on concrete values and is not just an economic community. My question is how, in your opinion, the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court Act and many other laws affect Poland's position. What does Poland want to do to finally demonstrate that it respects the fundamental fundamental principles that apply in the European Union and on which it is founded? Secondly, I would like to ask you whether today and during this period we are talking about, the guidelines for Polish European policy are the words of the leader of Law and Justice that we will go to the Union to steal horses from Hungary. How do you understand that? What kind of horses and what kind of thieving? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: In fact, I believe that stealing horses...]] Wait a minute, I'm not done, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Okay, I get it.]] And a specific question. Why do we say that today, because you have already said that we absolutely want to contribute to the construction of a common energy policy, when we have a duty, even because of the use of funds granted to us by the European Union, to end the construction of the Polish energy bridge on time, Lithuania, we delay it for not entirely clear reasons? Would you mind telling me what's going on?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u51	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u52	The delay in the construction of the power bridge Poland is linked to the change of technical requirements, which is notified to the European Commission and does not cause controversy, at this stage there is no controversy as to the implementation of this project. We have a sense of responsibility for the energy security of the region, we are able to give energy security to the region, both in the east and in the south, but we want to do so with as low costs as possible, in a cost-effective way and so that it also meets our expectations on this matter. The project is being examined, so it does not seem to me that it should raise as much controversy as the energy integration project with the South, which in its technical details must be defined, but is certainly not crossed out. I do not know if I should refer to these semantic issues, because it seems to me that it is quite obvious that in the Polish language the expression stealing horses does not refer to organized gangs of people who plan to take their horses away from someone but to the degree of confidence. It so happens that during a rather spontaneous exchange of opinions between President Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Orbán it turned out that there is exactly the same proverb in Hungarian. It's kind of funny that we have the same idea of what a testimony is, a testimonial of the highest confidence. I think this phrase must have been made at a time when horses were really a very important good. I think that's a very old saying. And I think that there is no doubt for anyone who knows a little bit the Polish or Hungarian language, that it is not about organized crime groups who want to deprive someone of horses or anything else. It is certainly not about such plans, it is only about trust, which between Poland and Hungary, in particular in recent months, is actually quite large, although it has always been very high. 'Cause I think there's a lot of things Not in all, but in a lot of ways, we felt the same way about how things should be done in the European Union, not only in the interests of our own interests, but also in the interests of the Union. As for the voices that come to you, the voices referring to the radical weakening of Poland's position in the European Union, we have freedom of expression in Poland, so I am prepared that such voices must appear. I can only say that I am unable to confirm the truth of these hypotheses. Perhaps you should change the channel or the newspaper. Perhaps this would help you to see that the votes on this matter are divided. Well, I don't want to go into this debate anymore, because it's not my competence. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, this issue is of course a cause of tension between Poland and the European Union, but I would like to stress very strongly that the subject matter of this dispute is not a matter of principles or values. We do not argue with constitutional principles, which are well formulated in the Polish Constitution, including the rule of law, the rule of law and freedom of expression. The whole catalogue, typically the European value catalogue, is not controversial. The subject of controversy is how to understand it in this particular situation. The subject of controversy is whether all specific activities of individual institutions are in line with these values And this is a completely different discussion. I think that we should not be so eager to transfer this dispute to the level of values, because I just did not notice such a dispute at the level of the European Union. I have not noticed a single statement by the Polish party on this matter which would undermine the validity of the rule of law or the democratic rule of law. This is about applying this principle, and the application of constitutional rules is naturally linked to controversy. Otherwise, we would not have set up constitutional tribunals that are professionally involved in resolving such controversy. And we have the right to understand this principle differently than, let us say, one or the other European Commissioner. I think that's it. [[I'm sorry, but I think it was the whole Commission that started this procedure. This was not done by one or the other European Commissioner.]] We'll take that as a yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u54	Minister, you said that we are close to finding consensus on the refugee problem, but the European Council is working on a directive on relocation, and there is a problem with this directive. On the one hand, it does not violate the principle of subsidiarity in the sense that when we look at problems in Italy and Greece, we see that this is something that requires a solution at a higher level than the national one. On the other hand, asylum policy seems to be strictly national or national competence. Please tell us what is Poland's position on the penalty imposed on countries that would not accept these refugees. It's supposed to be 250,000 euros for one unwelcome person. This is otherwise defined as a contribution rather than punishment, but I wonder if this is not an element to which it should be formally, showing the violation of the principle of subsidiarity, to point out. Second question. After Brexit, did the strengthening of the role of national parliaments through the institution of red and green cards go uninhabited? And such a small remark about European values. For me... Let me get this straight. The Posted Workers Directive as proposed by Commissioner Thyssen at the moment, in my opinion, is washing away the fundamental value of creating the European Union, i.e. killing the single market in services. How strongly should the Polish government say that there is a violation of the fundamental principles that were the foundation of the creation of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u55	Among the many sectoral arguments relating directly to the rules for posting, we also raise this issue, the introduction of the Posting of Workers Directive in the form that the Commission wants, of course, is aiming to ensure that this single market, I say, is not completed, but that it is deposited. So, yes, full agreement that it affects the construction of the European Union. It's a red card. We agreed to its application in the UK case and I see no reason why we should not agree without the UK. The agreement on the new conditions for UK membership was signed by the Heads of Government of all governments, and I understand that we have reached consensus on this. The British case is not the only reason why national parliaments should be strengthened. If someone is serious about the democratic legitimacy of the European process, he knows that this road only leads through national parliaments. Experiment related to the direct legitimacy of the democratic international process, which is the European Parliament... He doesn't play that role. Today we know this, it is a fact seen in many capitals, it is a fact seen very strongly e.g. by the Federal Constitutional Tribunal in Karlsruhe, which clearly states that the legitimacy of the European Parliament's decision on budgetary burdens is insufficient from the point of view of the German Constitution. I totally agree with that. The European Commission's proposal to change the asylum system is even more detached from political reality than the unfortunate decision, the individual decision to introduce relocation rules. This is a serious problem, much bigger than the one resulting from the relocation decision. I hope that, as part of the new migration agreement, the European Commission will find some convenient way to get out of this, because the introduction of such mechanisms... If this were to be introduced with a qualified majority, it would be the introduction of a powerful European Union political crisis against this background. Since it's possible to introduce participation fees for not accepting refugees... Perhaps we should introduce participation fees for non-acceptance of posted workers? I don't know where it's gonna take us. I feel like we're gonna have a lot of paperwork to figure out exactly who didn't let anyone in. Right? I think this is absolute nonsense. Proceding this project for reform of the asylum system is the easiest way to deepen the political crisis in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u56	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u57	Minister, we have been witnessing the clear activity of the Visegrad Group for months, including activity through Polish diplomacy, as we know. I have a question about that. This is a phenomenon that is part of the strategy of Polish foreign policy, and in my opinion the right strategy for building the ABC alliance, the countries of the Inter-marriage: the Adriatic, the Baltic and the Black. Could we risk the thesis that this activity of the Visegrad Group during this reporting period is fruitful, that is, we can boast of some result which gives rise to the suspicion that the strategic choice was right, or we should wait patiently, because the shock that results from the activity of the Visegrad Group, and the subject of this shock is the European Commission... Do the great European Union, like France and Germany, still have to prepare mentally for this radical change that may yet be made? In short, at what stage are we in terms of the effectiveness of the new strategy in Poland's foreign policy and the activity of the Visegrad Group?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u58	First, a few words of introduction. The Visegrad Group is an important dimension of European policy, perhaps in general the foreign policy of this government, but not the only one. I have the impression that some people want to forcefully interpret our course on regional policy in such a way as to create a caricature. This is a very important reference point, but not the only one. First of all, because we have a much wider belt, from Tallinn to Zagreb, Central European countries, which we also invite to seek agreement on important issues, at least EU, perhaps more widely, but at least EU, because there is the most international interaction there. And the last reservation is that we want the region to have its identity, to be heard in the EU, just to better defend its interests, not to make someone angry to attack someone to push someone out. These are absurd hypotheses, also associated with this figure, which very often appears in various analyses, a figure which is that we first draw caricature and then struggle bravely with it. And we win because caricature is relatively easy to win. If someone really wants to argue with government policy on this issue, he should look at details, details of this plan, and this plan is that the Visegrad Group, more broadly: Central Europe, should be an important aspect, an important regional identity on the map of Europe. On the map of Europe we have the North, quite strongly defined, strongly working together, especially after the eurozone crisis, but not only because there are many more positive interactions; we have defined the South, and 10 years after enlargement we still miss Central Europe as a defined, shaped, but also a predictable voice that raises issues related to a common interpretation of economic interests and a common interpretation of geopolitical interests. It's obvious. I have the impression that it is something so obvious that it pushes some critics, at least some critics of government policy in this area, to struggle, as I said, with caricature, because with a real picture in my opinion it is impossible to struggle. If we're looking at the Group's work... Of course, we have to hold back our expectations, we have to define our expectations well, because not in every case we will speak with the exact same voice and at exactly the same time. But, on the other hand, given, for example, this review of the issues I was talking about in the context of the Dutch Presidency, the Visegrad Group has made a significant impression on the change in migration policy, and I hope it has been effective and successful. But changing the debate on migration policy would not be possible in Europe, we would still be stuck in these bureaucratic experiments on management with Excel sheets of thousands of people at the southern borders... This change would not have happened if it had not been for Central Europe. The Visegrad Group has shown that it is able to show solidarity with regard to the protection of the external border by the rapid establishment of a European border guard and a very high participation of direct border guards, police at the external borders of the Union, where necessary, in particular in the Western Balkans belt. The Visegrad Group has made it very clear, repeatedly adopting positions on the Digital Agenda, the future of the single market, the posting of workers, the revision of the multiannual financial framework, the future of the multiannual financial framework... I think it's pretty much a lot. Of course, we speak with the same voice on Brexit, acquired rights, to a large extent in the future of climate policy. This isn't all business, this isn't 100%. compatibility, because we even in the country do not have 100% compliance with EU policies, but this is a lot. For EU conditions and regional synergies, this is one of the best results. I have the impression that the Visegrad Group today is one of the best organised regional groups, as I say, not to regionalise the Union, and not to force someone into some unnecessary war, just to express their interests well, to communicate clearly to their partners in the Union, which we expect from the Union. I think it's rational, proportionate... This process is also increasingly predictable for those who do not want to believe that this process can be predictable, who would like this process to fall over, who would like this process not to produce the results that we wish for. That's what I'm thinking. [[Minister, I'm very sorry, I have to adjourn at 12:00 because of the opening of the exhibition. We'll be back...]] I still have 30 minutes of performance. [[I'm sure you do.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Just one note. A revelation... [[We have a few more questions, so I'm gonna...]] The culmination of this... In order to note this logic, we need to look at consultations, the consultation cycle before Bratislava. The Visegrad Group has taken its positions on this issue twice. Immediately before Bratislava, she held a very constructive consultation with Chancellor Merkel and President Tusk. This is the proper development of events. And I have the impression that this has greatly helped that the final shape of the Bratislava declaration, the Bratislava road map, fully meets our expectations. Of course we would like more, we would like it to be faster, because we are ready for the pace to be higher, but this is at least the right direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u59	Thank you very much. And adjourn until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 12 minutes 37]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 1 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 37 to 13 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u61	I'm reopening the session. We return to the discussion of the first agenda item: information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January 2016 (the Netherlands Presidency of the Council of the European Union). We continue to ask questions to the Minister. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have the following question. What was the position of the Netherlands as country president of the Union's work on TTIP negotiations? Was the Netherlands a country that was, so to speak, a motorbike, an initiator, a constructive country in these negotiations or not? I would like to know what position the Netherlands had in these negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u63	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u64	I think that the Netherlands should be seen as a very friendly country in terms of the negotiations and conclusions of the TTIP agreement, but as a Presidency country, the Netherlands was naturally obliged to facilitate the process rather than pursue its own very specific view on the matter. The fact that we have been certain for some time that the agreement would have to be subject not only to EU but also to national ratification must have affected the pace at which these negotiations took place. In any event, the Netherlands must certainly be seen as a country very interested in concluding the negotiations, and this will be a rapid conclusion of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I apologize for this question, because it may be a little different from the time perspective indicated, which is from January to June, more relevant to the current case, but I was kind of provoked by the absent person in Senator Augustine's room, who also asked a question on current matters. He was referring to the position of the European Commission on the Constitutional Court Act, although he also asked about other laws. I would like to ask, if I may, about... Senator Augustine also raised the argument of respecting values in the European Union and breaking rules. In this context, Minister, I would like to ask you about the law on hypermarkets, specifically about breaking the rules in the European Union. Poland was declared by the European Commission, so to speak... The law passed by the Sejm and the Senate was recognized... The Commission is conducting proceedings on this law; it is about unlawful State aid. I would like to ask the question whether in the past the European Commission has always initiated proceedings against countries which have granted or suspected such assistance. If you could, I would ask you to give a few examples, if they are, of course, when the European Commission was not so firm with regard to the countries of the European Union in which illegal public aid may actually have been granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u67	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u68	Once again, I would like to stress that there is no dispute between Poland and the European Union or the European Commission about values and principles. We agree with the catalogue of values and principles expressed in the Polish Constitution, we agree with the catalogue of values and principles expressed in the Treaties. However, there are times when specific interpretations of the application of these rules vary between a Member State and the European Union and the European Commission in a specific case. And that's what happened in this case. As far as the question of the hypermarket tax law is concerned, this is a related matter... the allegations in this case are based on unlawful state aid. The concept itself does not raise any objections; it is the foundation of equal competition in the common market. In recent years, however, we have seen the enormous development of doctrine in terms of what can be regarded as public aid. And what we are talking about here is precisely the case where we are dealing with an indication of the indirect effect of an unequal progressive taxation of state aid. This is an indirect indication of the possible granting of public aid to such or other addressees of those tax standards. The only thing that can be said is that the European Commission is increasingly creative in this case and is looking for more and more, so to speak, interpretation of the rules for shaping what is considered to be public aid. This does not, of course, help with the predictability of legal standards and the predictability of the EU order, because this problem, whether in the field of state aid or in the scope of the free movement of capital, is, in principle, one in every other law, as a problem to be overcome, to be justified. I think the case should be clarified. The Polish government will probably not act passively in this case. I think it is very likely, if not certain, that there is a case before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Because, in situations where there are very different interpretations in terms of what is and what is not public aid, the best authority is, of course, the court. With all recognition of the European Commission's competence and expertise in the field of state aid, I think that if this controversy persists, it is worth explaining this issue. Because such a broad interpretation of state aid can impact on many other legal standards of the established national law, which, in its intention, in its main intention... This is the case in this case: the tax law is not intended to grant State aid. The purpose of this Act is to clarify the tax system and to tax economic operators exactly where the taxable value is produced. I think we have very similar positions with the European Commission on our intentions. We would like businesses to pay taxes in Europe so that there are no situations like the Apple case, where we have reasonable doubts as to whether such a constructed tax system, the consequences of which are that the tax is not paid exactly where the value is produced, is right and fair. I think this case has a lot of analogy. The intention of the Minister of Finance was not to grant unlawful state aid. The intention was to effectively tax entities that should pay more taxes where value is generated. [[But was there public aid?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u69	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u70	Minister, have there ever been state aid from the Member States of the European Union in recent years? And has the European Commission always initiated proceedings on this matter? Are you familiar with cases where the Commission, knowing that something might be a form of public aid, did not initiate such a procedure?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u72	It is very difficult to assess whether she has started this. However, it can be said with certainty that the sphere in question is one of those areas where there is an increasing number of collisions between the Member State, between the legislator and the European Commission. This case is one of the most controversial. And it is already supported by a growing number of judgments. Perhaps there will be another ruling in this case...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Władysław Komarnicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, as I mentioned in my first questions, I am a border man. There's one big problem I'd like you to lean on. This is a task: building a bridge in Kostrzyn nad Odra. This is the subject, as it is said, with a very long beard that brings joy among our neighbours from behind the Oder, because they have all been approved long ago, and it was supposed to be a common bridge on the Oder. We in the investment programme have long stated that this bridge is absolutely indispensable and that an international agreement must be signed with Germany. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to say, Minister, it's been six months and I'm told I have recently met with the mayor and the people responsible for these cases in this town, and this is stuck with you in the ministry. You are running this on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure. And since she's supposed to be 'Cause it's all supposed to be It was signed in the third quarter, and I would very much ask the Minister to respond in writing. I promised this to the people of this town because there's a huge traffic jam. And that's a serious problem, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u75	If the implementation of the investment requires the signing of an intergovernmental agreement, it is of course a matter of our responsibility in this matter. I will, of course, present this matter to the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as to the coordinator of cross-border cooperation, which is outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we will try to give a written opinion as soon as possible on what is happening on this matter. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u76	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u77	Mr. Minister, two questions. The non-discrimination of minorities directive returns to the wallpaper again. This is a directive that was suspended in 2008. She was suspended not because the Czech Republic protested, but because the Germans protested. This is a directive that, in my view, is dangerous for many reasons, and a very heavy financial burden is passed on to entrepreneurs. They are the ones who are to show that, without signing the agreement, they were not motivated by discrimination against all the minorities mentioned there. After 8 years it is heated. Who can we count on in the dispute with the European Commission? That's the first question. And the second question, as it were, is an extension of your earlier statement. You spoke of a satisfactory correlation of common positions within the Visegrad Group. And my question is this: do you see at the moment a tendency within the European Union for such a light grouping? Of course, she's never 100 percent. But that we are dealing with a certain community of southern countries, and also with the increasing oscillation of France towards the south, with the community of Scandinavian countries in terms of position, and with the core, let's call it that, Benelux Germany. Yes? I mean. Is this a noticeable trend, against the background of your previous experience in recent years, when we talked more about a common Europe? Now, aren't these lightly marked, not very visible, new tectonic plates formed?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u79	With regard to the so-called. The second anti-discrimination directive, Poland recently refreshed its official position and changed it to a negative one. We are at the very beginning of a process, a renewed process, after many years we are dealing with new governments, so it is too early to say what is the map of support for individual parts of this directive, but Poland retains its position on this issue critical, among others. for the reasons you mentioned and which were crucial for the negative recommendation to the German Government, mainly from economic and industrial backgrounds. When it comes to grouping in the European Union, of course It's always been because trouble... I mean, in the good times, when there was no trouble, the group wasn't needed by anyone, because the Union maintained a great deal of political cohesion. When problems began, tensions, differences in interests, it naturally pushed Member States to express their positions more strongly in key strategic issues together. It could be a problem whether it is a problem in a situation where it leads to the conclusion that the European Union should simply be divided, that it would be better to divide it into a smaller organism or a permanent organism divided into two or three clubs, because it would remove the European Union from what is the main manifestation of its strength and subjectivity in the world, that is, the scale. In the case of Central Europe, the problem of scale and... Whatever happens to the Union in the future should take into account the necessary condition of its importance, i.e. scale, preservation of scale, not only the status quo, but perhaps enlargement. This is a key element of the mission of Central Europe or the Visegrad Group. It was very prominent in the document that we adopted before the Bratislava Summit, noting that perhaps there are reasons to believe that it would be easier for the euro group to make decisions if it were here, for example, the North itself. It would certainly be easier, because the degree of political convergence there is incomparably greater than between, let's say, Berlin and Athens. But we would miss something that is much more important, even comparing it to the tension that dominates today in the euro area, or scale. It is hard to imagine a European Union divided into six clubs - as an eight-state player in international trade, as an entity that actually imposes standards on a very large number of regulated sectors of the economy, for example, in security far beyond its borders. The Union, as a customs union and as an institution with exclusive competence in trade policy, can decide on market access, which still has 500 million people. The market on a smaller scale is simply a more neglected element of architecture in global trade and I have the impression that many of those who today have a fairly large amount of nostalgia, I think, because this factor should not be underestimated, seek to soothe their often objective fears, problems in small projects... I think they're missing the point, and they don't see that in this little project, we would all end up as an addition to the new global order, not as a factor that, however, is trying to influence the rules of the game. Of course, this impact is decreasing due to objective changes that take place outside our borders.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u80	Thank you. Senator Marek Pak, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Minister, at the meeting of our Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union yesterday, we were dealing, among other things, with the regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. The government's position has changed and at this point in time, the work is negative. I would like to ask you about the background to the drafting of this document and, above all, where the VAT issue came from, because it is at this point one of the bones of disagreement. The next point is: Is our position definitely negative, or will it change if substantive issues change? And is it even a good time for the European Union to push this issue so hard? From what we heard yesterday, it is a matter of the determination of the Slovak Presidency to push this issue forward as quickly as possible. Wouldn't it be better to hold off on that? What is the government's position on this matter? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u82	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u83	The European VAT collection system and the differentiated rates of this tax actually present a very high risk in terms of the collectionability of this tax and fraud, including cross-border. That's probably a good reason... Detailed reasons why the Ministry of Justice, the leading Ministry of Justice, has proposed to the Government today, as I understand it, a negative position on the European Public Prosecutor's Office can be put forward in writing. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not play a leading role here, I am just observing this process from the level of the Committee for European Affairs, and the final position will probably be related to how the whole project will evolve in the future, because Poland is not the only country reporting various doubts about the various aspects of this institution. The matter, as far as I know, was also opposed by national Parliaments, and this is one of those cases which were contested under the subsidiarity principle. But, as I say, a detailed position which is known to the leading resort, I can present in writing because what I said is certainly an inexhaustible picture of the situation. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may, I'll ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u85	Minister, I did not expect such a substantive justification from you, from the legal side, on behalf of the Justice Department. I am more concerned with you referring to a certain philosophy of the functioning of the European Union. I mean, the European Union, even though it is currently in a crisis Not only in the refugee or Brexit crisis, but in general, in some institutional crisis, in the leadership crisis He's pushing another institution. It is not supposed to be such a strict treaty institution, but it is another instrument of central control in the European Union. Is this really a good time to push institutions like this? Shouldn't these things be put off at this point, put off for later?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u86	As a matter of principle, it is a consensus that we have all agreed recently that the Union should choose those initiatives which combine rather than those which create tension. Only that, using this criterion, we should not exaggerate, because if we asked all the Member States today what really connects them, it would perhaps turn out that this list of cases would be very small. So we're gonna have to break it all down somehow. The prosecution's case came back mainly because of this... or... Maybe we should say this: this name is a little bit out of line, as in many cases, because this prosecution is only supposed to deal with crimes that are against the interests of the European Union. This is not a prosecutor's office, which is supposed to be another degree of justice system in, let's say, Poland. She has quite limited competence. The issue of VAT was raised there because VAT is an important factor in the Union's own income, and it is probably only in this context that it should be seen there. As a rule, it is a complete agreement that... I think the Union is, so to speak, at a rather fragile moment, to introduce elements of an agenda that may cause some very strong tension. Today it is better to carry out projects that offer opportunities for a compromise that would be best Consensual. But as for the details, I would have to see what the individual aspects of this tension are, because I know only some, and I'm afraid that this is an incomplete picture, so I would prefer to hold back some definitive opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u87	Thank you, Minister. Now I'd like to ask you a question. Minister, the government of Beata Szydło declared in connection with the wave of refugees that these refugees would not be accepted, but that funds would be transferred to those refugees where problems arise. Therefore, I would like to ask you: how many such funds, how much such money was given by Poland, by the budget of the Polish state for this purpose? That's my first question. The second question is that probably the British contribution to the budget, at least in one year, in the last year, may not be paid. That is, if the exit from the Union starts in 2017, this contribution will be completed in 2019. I asked you that and you talked about it. You also said that Poland stands in such a position That's how I figured it out. In order not to reduce subsidies, but to increase the Member States' contributions. This is right from the Polish point of view, but there will be 26 other countries besides Poland, which have slightly different interests and which pay much higher contributions than Poland. So please tell me: if this does not go through and subsidies must therefore be reduced, what, from a formal point of view, can these reductions apply? Is it cohesion policy or agricultural policy? Because we have two spaces here. From a formal point of view...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u88	From a formal point of view... [[Yes. And on this...]] ...the reduction of expenditure may relate to any type of expenditure in the budget of the European Union. This will depend on the fact that the membership will really cease, the rules for its cessation, the rules for new relations, which will probably be able to provide for the maintenance of some contribution paid by the United Kingdom to the budget. It is very difficult to imagine a situation where we have intense relations with the common market and do not bear the costs of participating in the common market. There's no precedent. There is no such case among third countries that have intense relations with the common market, so there are too many unknowns today to know what the cost could be and what it could be. But this will certainly lead to a very serious discussion about the annual budget, because the loss of this contribution will have to be allocated in some way. Perhaps these will be indirect solutions. It's all ahead of us. The basic position of Poland is this: we believe that it would be beneficial if contributions increased and there was no cut in expenditure. But of course, it will meet with various other opinions, analyses. When we know the context The moment and conditions of departure, the terms and conditions of the new membership We will be able to count this and determine what is a reasonable solution. [[The first question was how much...]] Oh, humanitarian aid, yes. [[...we've given help to the refugees. Of course, it's humanitarian aid, but I'm talking about a specific amount. If you don't mind, please...]] We have made this declaration within the 2016 budget, so all we could do at this point is use the special reserve. The special reserve of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for all areas and measures that could be shifted to programmes in the area where displaced persons are staying, with different statutes, not all refugees, we cannot define it at this moment... Let's just say it's about placing money in this area. We spent the entire reserve effectively. Recently, one of the Polish foundations noted that it was able to help 10,000 Syrian refugees in Lebanon. In the new budget it was proposed and maintained at this stage A fairly strong double increase in expenditure in this chapter of the budget. Of course, it should be taken into account that Poland has never been a particularly generous donor when it comes to humanitarian aid, especially there... These are still perhaps modest amounts, compared with the sums from other European countries, but there is a very clear increase in this commitment. I don't want to shoot and put some money out of my head right now, because it reminds me of a few numbers in this context, but I can give you in writing the estimates that were made at the budget preparation stage. The declaration that we want to be more present on humanitarian aid will be supported by a very clear change visible in the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u89	Thank you very much. I'll have that in writing... But I also ask for information about how much we spent this year, because at the beginning of this year there were certain declarations by the Prime Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] ...Beaty Szydło. I understand that this amount has doubled... I'd ask for that, too... But of course, if you give me information about this year, I'll be able to figure out how much it's going to be twice as high. I don't see anyone else wanting to ask a question. We're going through... [[Voice from the room: Just...]] Oh, good. I inform you that the Minister has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by senators Grzegorz Pekkis, Władysław Komarnicki, Mark Pęk and Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Yes.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Konrad Szymański: Should I stand here or...]] [[No.]] No, thank you, Minister. You can rest easy now and just listen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! There is no doubt that on the one hand we have become accustomed to the crisis in the European Union; we have been dealing with it permanently since 2008. This last installment of the crisis, caused by the results of the referendum in the United Kingdom, is perhaps the most serious corner in the history of the European Union, but one with which we should work together to get out without slipping. For the first time in the history of European integration, we are dealing with a situation where a country has decided to leave the Union. Previously, countries have joined the European Union, which has heightened the mood of contentment. The current frustration is linked to the British's decision I don't judge her because it's Britain's internal business. But the damage is both on one side and on the other. And the European Union, and the United Kingdom after the decision of the British come out of this situation battered. However, it must also be remembered that every crisis always has two aspects, i.e. it carries risks and risks, but on the other hand it has opportunities, and it depends on us what prevails: whether risks or opportunities. Personally, I hope that we will not be wise after the damage, that we will learn from it now and that we will indeed not come out of this crisis weakened, but maybe even strengthened. However, the multiplication of chaos and the adding of problems are undoubtedly ideas to revise the European Treaties in order to make changes to the acquis communautaire in order to make any modifications to the Lisbon Treaty in the Lisbon Treaty, let us remind, not entirely used, in the Lisbon Treaty, in which there are plenty, really a lot of various tools that can be used for the benefit of the European Union after Brexit. Let us say with an open text: at the moment, the revision of the European Treaties would be a knife stuck in the back of the European Union, especially after Brexit. That is why I believe that there are several areas that need to be considered from the Polish point of view and, in the case of some of them, put coal in a boiler so that the European Union goes forward and, in the case of others, remain abstinence. The time was over when it could be said: in every area the prescription for everything is more of the Union. However, societies do not see the benefits of this deepening European integration over the last decades. But it makes sense: more EU where possible, where there is a social consensus, where there is a expectation from the citizens of the countries of the European Union that the Union can do something else for them beyond what the governments of the Member States are doing. So more EU where necessary, more Union where citizens are allowed. I'm not a specialist in economic matters, so I'm just gonna talk about one thing. It seems that today there is no point in undermining the existence of the single currency and that Poland should support the monetary union. This does not mean that a decision should already be taken to join the monetary union, to introduce the euro. This decision should be left... this decision should be prepared by specialists. And I would personally refer here to the proposal, to the evaluation of specialists. But since the crisis of the European Union was largely caused by the global financial crisis, it is worth keeping cohesion policy on the next financial perspective perhaps at the end of the current period, as he mentioned, among other things. Mr. Marshal. Mr. Minister agreed with him. Perhaps at the end of the present. Cohesion policy in its current form, which we are the biggest beneficiary of, is the most important from the point of view of countries on achievements such as Poland. This is why it is in our interest to keep cohesion policy a priority for the next financial perspective. I am a little familiar with security issues, and I therefore think that it can be said boldly in this area: we need more Union. We really need more Union in the field of security, both external and internal. I think that so far, for various reasons, not even some... I am not talking about everyone, I am talking about some of the tools that are enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon. We called for them to be used, for example on the occasion of the previous 2 so-called. Weimar letters signed by foreign ministers and national defences of Poland, Germany and France. It is a pity that only German and French foreign ministers have recently spoken on this issue. There was no Polish voice. I consider this to be a mistake from the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. The Polish voice in this matter should co-sound both with those speeches and with those present, because there are no obstacles, absolutely no obstacles, so that there is more Union in the external security policy. There are no obstacles to the use of combat groups, which have been on duty for many years and are paid well by the citizens of each Member State who issues their quota, including Poland. There is no obstacle for countries wishing for enhanced cooperation to benefit from the PESCO mechanism; for this permanent structural cooperation to be carried out whenever necessary and possible. There is no obstacle to the solidarity clause being used to a greater extent than it has been used so far, in particular in the event of a terrorist threat or in the event of a terrorist act. We are currently dealing with a paradoxical situation. There is a huge discrepancy between what the European Union has in the framework of the Treaties and what the countries of the European Union want to benefit from. So I think... and that's gonna be the punch line. I repeat once again: there should be more Union in those areas where this is needed and where authorisation is allowed, in particular in the field of security policy. And that is the principle that the Polish government should follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u91	I'd like the floor of Senator Jarosław Oremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to say that I judge the Dutch Presidency very highly. There were some concerns whether the Netherlands, being at the core of the Union, would not try to play two speeds for the Union, but I had the impression that the Dutch government and parliament were doing Everything At least that's how I felt about it from the COSAC level to maintain European integrity as much as possible and seek consensus, that is, what is common. Sometimes, when we are discussing the European Union, I have such a reflection that some people imagine that the European Union is still what it was in 2004 and not what it is now. And yet there have been changes in accents, there are other challenges. I dare say that there is a slightly different ideology and that there are different decision structures. But on the other hand, the European Union is for us... I don't want to say that it's non-alternative, because that's always an intellectually false statement, but we don't have a better solution. The European Union is our home, it increases our security, but I think there is a problem. I want to quote Kissinger here, who, I think, is a very harsh statement about the European Union. He said something like that, if the strategic objective of the European Union is to establish an internal structure, then such a European Union makes no sense. We have a problem with the fact that the European Union has so far been legitimised by efficiency. When everything was going well, it was good, and when the crisis started, we're dealing with it. Let's not hide it. With great national egoism of individual countries. And I think running away from it is a pretty big mistake. We have very strong anti-establishment trends in Europe, which I think are very loud about subjectivity. Here's a cry for more democracy. In my opinion, we have the problem that the European Commission, although there is no lack of legal legitimacy, lacks democratic legitimacy. We have a system within the European Union that... Perhaps Senator Klich is right that we do not make full use of the Lisbon Treaties, but it must be said that this is not a system that relieves internal tensions. In my view, therefore, some changes in the current functioning of the Union are necessary. Here's another thing. I've already talked about this because this is a very important issue for me. The green card may be less, but the red card is an element that gives the opportunity to review European directives. What is verified through elections in parliaments Some laws can later be changed... Here such mechanisms de facto do not exist and a red card could serve this purpose. At COSAC meetings, I see the tension between the European Parliament's representative to increase the role of national parliaments... I do not hide that such a spokesman for the fight against greater autonomy, the greater power of national Parliaments is Polka. Danuta Hübner. The TTIP issue. Well, it's a very difficult thing... I would say that in the Polish interest it is probably TTIP to declare to support and guard details, things that are important to us. In my opinion, TTIP will be suspended for a very long time. The complexity of acceptance by all parliaments There's probably going to be some election games everywhere. It's too big. And I have the impression that today's consent for a far greater relationship with the United States in the French parliament would not be possible. Senator Klich was talking about centered and centered activities. I'd say... Not all those who talk about integrity, integrity serve. In such a vortex movement it is very often that if we move inside, we spin faster and faster and more and more danger is that there will be a spatter and we will jump off. It's a centrifugal force. Whether someone's acting in the center or in the center... In my opinion, the point is whether or not someone is working for the integrity of the European Union in the long term. And this is where I want to resist Kissinger's words again. He says that the question that Europe poses is false, namely how much we should give up our diversity so that there is more unity. He makes a completely different point and asks: how much diversity must be needed for the European Union to make sense? He sees the sense of the European Union in the fact that we have the synergy of certain differences that exist in the European Union and which, in total, give strength to different solutions. This gives what the Minister was talking about here, a critical mass of the size of the European Union, extended to include new European countries. I had the pleasure of having a longer conversation with Commissioner Thyssen responsible for the Posted Workers Directive. In my opinion, we are dealing with the classic situation described in the bureaucracy books in the European Commission. This bureaucracy best solves the problems it has created, and if it is already trying to solve other problems, these are the problems of the one who is the strongest player. This is the case with the Delegated Work Directive. In my opinion, the principle of the common market in services has been violated. I, trying to show this kind of mirror, said that the answer from our side, if it were legally possible, could be a statement that takes account of humanism towards employees, that all cashiers in foreign supermarkets must earn what they earn in France, in the UK or in Germany. That would be balancing solutions. Brexit... It's bad that it happened to Brexit, but I take it as a threat, and as an opportunity. On the one hand, we were weakened because Britain was a player for us within the European Union, but on the other hand the percentage importance of Poland increased. We just had a visit from the French senators. From their perspective, of course also as a result of the fact that this axis of French-German cooperation is unsymmetrical, that France is moving south also, so to speak, in economic power... They are aware that Brexit causes Poland to be treated by them as a certain element of balancing within the European Union. They talk about such a game with Spain and Poland. I think that also increases our maneuvering area. Visehrad... I think it's obvious, but it's worth saying so, given the use of a caricature, it's worth talking about it. For us, firstly, there is the European Union, and secondly, within the European Union there is Visegrad to be better heard, better understood in the European Union. Do the Germans, our biggest partner, understand that? I think so. Will they act lightly on some disintegration of Visegrad? I think so. So what? I mean... On the other hand, I believe that in the longer term, Germany is the strongest ally for us who thinks about the integrity of the European Union and does not divide it into an old and new one because it is one of the biggest beneficiaries of enlargement after 2004 and 2007. So there is a certain element of partnership, but this element of partnership allows us to speak hard: we want with the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovaks, yes, sometimes we will play, sometimes we will lose. At the end of the day, it's not about... On Monday, September 26th, 70 years have passed since the day on which the Sejm decided to deprive General Anders of his civil rights, not only him, but also General Anders. I was thinking that, of course, I wouldn't dare say that history is fair, especially in the presence of the marshal in charge, a historian, because I would probably be corrected, but I want to say that sometimes history can make fun of those who once made vile decisions. And now there's Mrs. Anders, the general's daughter, in our Senate. Sure, history isn't quick, but sometimes it can make a mockery of the oppressors, of the mean people in a completely symbolic way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u93	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. But he's not... [[Desertion, deserted, no PiS.]] This is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to base my statement on three elements, three sources of information and knowledge, which flows into the Polish public space, namely what we heard from the Minister today, what was written in the report, and what we hear every day, especially from the politicians of Law and Justice, because they are today the main wizards of our policy towards the European Union. Of course, too much praise may end badly, but, Minister, I will say briefly: it is with great pleasure to listen to you when you talk about everything that concerns the European Union, which concerns Poland's position on key issues, even in such a difficult issue as the issue of migration policy. I was very happy to hear what the Minister presented in terms of the perspective in this area. It is a pity that we are alone, as the Minister said, in this second option, concerning the exit from internal migration policy, but I hope that we will be able to reach consensus in this area as well. That's one aspect. The second is the question of the report that can be read, and here are the various things that raise my doubts, a few of which I would like to share in a moment. And the third aspect is the political space of the main political actors on the Polish stage relating to the European Union. To conclude the thread of Minister Konrad Szymański, I will say so perversely: Mr Minister, one minister will not compensate 600 different people who have been selected by one of the parties who have been assigned to various positions. This gap in how to pursue policies in different areas is enormous and you, Minister, will not compensate the 600 Misiewiczs. Turning now to the issues concerning the European Union itself, let me say this... There'll be horses too, Mr. Senator... [[And maybe I'll stay.]] With regard to the issue of the European Union itself, there is no doubt that 500 million people living within the European Union, covered by the European Union project, are one of the best projects that have emerged, I do not know, not only in Europe, but maybe in the public space of the world. The people covered by it share common values. As the Minister said, we do not question the common values of the European Union. Although I have to say, I have a kind of split personality here. On the one hand, the Minister's statement is made and on the other hand there are statements by politicians in the country, politicians at various levels, representatives of Law and Justice, the governing party. It is a question of questioning the three divisions of power or the role of the Constitutional Tribunal in the whole structure of the state. It's being questioned. Therefore, this perception of Poland in the European Union in my opinion is no longer so clear. As it was presented at the time of asking questions, maybe a small thing, but important from the point of view of finance, and in general of the European Union, the Brexit issue... I think that the political connection with the party, which did not show excessive enthusiasm, with Great Britain and inadequate support in my view as regards the participation of representatives of the Polish government in the Brexit campaign... After all, what concerns Brexit is largely about Poles living there. Based on what is the subject of information, on the knowledge of this political part of the public space, I am signing the statement that Poland's role in the European Union has been somewhat weakened as a result of all the actions we present. As I said, on one of Mom's scales, it seems to me, a very good speech by the Minister, showing the reality of everything that concerns the European Union, and on the other, we have a strong impression. Talking about something completely different, in a different direction and as if not seeing everything that is part of the reality of the European Union. If we say that the importance of Poland in the European Union is not weakening... In this situation it is difficult to imagine that the European Parliament would adopt a resolution concerning Poland and it would be a resolution that glorifyes us. This is a resolution that doesn't give us the best testimony. Our position on refugees. If it were presented in the same way as Minister Szymański said, then we would probably also be seen as Poland completely differently. Turning to the issue of the report that has been submitted to us, I would like to raise only two points. This is where the establishment of the European Budget Council, which will be an advisory body, is very strongly stressed, talking about the representation of the euro area vis-à-vis the International Monetary Fund. It is clear from the report that what concerns the strengthening of different types of institutions in relation to the International Monetary Fund or other organisations is happening in the euro area. It is an important task for Polish diplomats to make sure that what concerns the defence of the interests of all Member States in the European Union... It is about not having this dualism, which is largely visible also in this report. The European Budget Council, which is to act as an advisory body, of course the main burden of its activities, also directs cooperation towards the euro area countries. In my opinion, the fact that there will be some 2 standards, the standard of euro area countries and the standard of countries outside the euro area is not beneficial for Poland either. Therefore, Poland's position in this area in relation to the response of Polish representatives in the European Union is important. Another point, as the Minister said, is a very important element concerning cohesion policy and agricultural law. The cohesion programme is one of the key programmes and the agricultural programme is also crucial. These are 2 important programs for the further development of the Republic of Poland. Therefore, it is a very important element to find allies in order to maintain these 2 programmes in terms of financial support. Finally, two brief issues concerning financial stability, the strong euro area and the Energy Union. If we read in the report that the European Union is taking strong action . which, of course, Poland is also involved in the fight against non-payment of taxes, with regard to even mafia actions in relation to VAT... We're definitely signing off on this. And that's in the report. The issue of European bank guarantees is also an important element under which Poland signs itself. But when we are talking about fiscal stability and there is a tax on hypermarkets, which the EU, the European Commission is questioning, then the policies of Law and Justice, Minister Shamacha says that it is a group of lobbyists who are working against Poland here. So either we fit into a certain standard of the whole, both on the tax side and tax security, the safety of savings, or we choose some parts. Such an inconsistent message that I observe... I am not a specialist in international law or EU law, but when I observe such an inconsistent message... Let me stress that one more time. Maybe I've emphasized it too many times, but I'll stress it again. The message of Minister Szymanski is simple, clear and unambiguous, and the message of other people from the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, other politicians, is already completely bipolar, so to speak. And here's the last thing. The energy issue. I asked the Minister here about the Nord Stream 2 case. The energy union at all... But among the five important tasks mentioned in this document is also the issue of decarbonisation of industry and decarbonisation in general. I would just like to remind you that I have raised this issue recently also here during the Senate session. Since we are talking about decarbonisation, air protection and improvement of quality of life, we cannot move towards the destruction of Polish achievements in the field of renewable energy, for example. So that we sign up for a general move towards diversification of sources, air protection... I will just remind you of recent research: 500 cities in Europe tested in terms of air quality, 300 worst results in Poland... In the top ten: 6 cities from Poland. This shows that fantastic assumptions about improving air quality, decarbonizing, releasing new technologies... And then in national politics, what happens happens. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister what concerns Poland's tough stance on the question of... What we are talking about here are important key elements, but I have the overwhelming impression that what Minister Szymański was talking about, and what I hear as a Polish citizen, is, however, a cathode and anodic. Once again, Minister, thank you very much for speaking here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u95	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You are an excellent European diplomat, so it is difficult for you to speak very decisively. But today, also in the Senate, we should speak absolutely unambiguously and decisively, because what is happening in the European Union with Poland is very worrying. I will come out of what the report said most about: the Brexit crisis. I will remind you of the words of the unforgettable Kisiel: It is worth wondering what the result is. The Minister also said here that it was in fact the passiveness of the Union on certain issues that encouraged and favored such an attitude in different countries. And I'm buying, Minister, a completely opposite theorem. The European Union has become a convenient pretext, it has become such a boy to beat in various internal games. It is such a manner in many countries, especially before the elections, that if something is not going well, something we are not dealing with, it is the European Union's fault, because it does not work, because it is delaying, because it is passive. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the falsehood of such a speech is easy to demonstrate, because most often the same ones who say it, also in Poland, are the last ones who wish to equip the Union with such tools that it is able not to delay itself so that it has the power to decide. The same, in our country too, say: less Union, limit the Union only to economic matters, and best give and fall. Brexit, the UK's exit from the Union is also a lesson to us that we must not do so because anti-European moods are aroused and we will all pay a price for it someday. What is a task in the European Union, also for Poland, is to build the authority of the institution that we co-create. I have the impression that here, in the Senate, and in Poland, and especially in the governing camp, the Union is something external. It wasn't us! And yet we are part, and it is a serious part, of this Union, with a serious shared responsibility. Brexit teaches us one more thing. That the stimulation of xenophobic sentiments, silence when violence occurs, silence when the wave of nationalism rises, revenges, revenges on us too, when we're somewhere wrong, unwelcome. On purpose, Minister, I end with a proverb. 'Cause we talked a little bit about it. Whoever blows the wind collects the storm. Who challenges the authority of the Union, who still speaks ill of it, who does not defend it, who does not show its positive reasons, which are often behind the decisions, also difficult for us, this sends doubt and undermines the efficiency of the Union and its ability to act. After all, the result can be the same as in the UK. Now, Mr. Marshal, Minister, I would like to go back to what sounded like in my question. I teach students that the European Union is founded from the very beginning primarily on values, and that is all that happens in other areas. In economics, in the environment, in everything that the Union has achieved in its legal system and in its institutions The result is that we are trying to keep these values. Minister, he said we don't question these values either, but we confess values not by words, but by deeds. Senator Czarnobaj is right. This is at least dissonance in those voices that we hear about the values that are the foundation of the European Union. Their non-compliance undermines the foundation of the community. That's what happens to the Constitutional Tribunal, that's what happens to other laws. And we can't use smooth words here, Minister. During the few months since the elections, Poland's position in the European Union due to practical reasons Not declarative, but, I repeat, the practical questioning of basic values is the worst since we entered this Union, which will result and already results in an unfavorable atmosphere for us. It does not help that the Platform and others say that it is the government, not the whole Poland, because the government represents Poles and if it does not comply with EU rules, it is called into question the opinion of Poland not for today, but for the future, for years. There is a special sensitivity to what Poland does. In view of the situation that has been created here by the rulers in respect of compliance with the fundamental principles of the European Union. This means that in our negotiations, we're going to be the last to compromise. Zoom on Poland, especially careful observation of what is happening in our country, will certainly result in... Every movement made by the government, by our institutions, will be scanned over and over again and will unfortunately not be interpreted in good faith. Ministers, the Senators, one of the values on which the European Union is founded is trust. And what you are hitting is trust in Poland, the credibility of Poland, and this cannot be done overnight. Minister, it is not important that we have different opinions, it is important what our partners think and speak openly about this, because they will co-decide on our matters. Failure to respect their opinion, disregard, call arrivals of representatives of major audit institutions tours, etc. undermines the trust that we need so that we can build alliances so that we can build an agreement so that we can push through what is needed all of us, Poles, that is a good budget and a good, friendly law, giving us the chance to go forward with our partners, towards better development. Minister, I wouldn't joke about the situation in Krynica. It would have been so much to report if we hadn't been watched so much if we hadn't been treated so suspiciously if we had been trusted. If we were credible, perhaps the interpretation that the Minister is talking about to break through and celebrate such statements with a smile. Unfortunately, however, this is no longer the case, although it might be. I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I'd just like to say, at the end of the day, 'Cause I'm afraid it sounded that way. That Hungary and I are not going to the Union to do something good just to pull something for ourselves or to stand up for something together. Maybe I wouldn't have thought that if it wasn't for this practice that we've been talking about a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u97	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Mr. Senator said Brexit was responsible for Poland, not politics...]] Would you like to speak up, Senator? [[No, there's no point.]] Mr. Senator... Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I signed up for the vote, I was hoping that we would have a conversation, a fight, a competition for views with the widely understood coalition camp, or even more, because I apologize for the term "PiS" camp. Meanwhile, as a result of the desertion of the PiS senators from the discussion field Well, there is hope that maybe Senator Jackowski, as usual, will complement something I come to discuss with just a little guilty Minister Szymanski, and that was not my intention. And the discussion is so important to me that I want to make serious accusations, but not so much the Minister... Even his best speech will not obscure this truth that after years of widely understood solidarity camp, but supported Unfortunately, this has to be recognised. By the left-wing camp, he led Poland out of the grey zone of economic security, civilization on the broad tracks of the best of world civilizations, on the tracks of this civilization, which took over or earlier promoted the very nice ideals of solidarity understood not as professional solidarity, but solidarity between peoples, solidarity between people. Indeed, the Dutch Presidency has passed in an atmosphere of very serious decisions, and for this reason it was probably hardworking, I think, but unfortunately it has failed. We're still figuring out who's the winner and who's the loser. I will not judge the decision of citizens, I stress: citizens, or perhaps more, because British society. I think that it has made a difficult decision and will bear responsibility and consequences for this. But the English have often shown that they are capable of getting out of hopeless situations. I certainly do not agree with my President, Senator Klich, that this is another crisis. It is not an area-population reduction or even an economic reduction of the European Union. For me, the biggest failure after Brexit is, first of all, a slowdown, if not a slowing down of the dynamics of the European Union's development. The European Union was not just created to be, but to develop to respond to threats both in terms of human rights and against the aggression of other economic creations in the world. Poland was the consumer of all these cases. Because it's not just about subsidies, it's about technology that's widely understood. The social one, about how to behave, how to build labour codes, how to talk to one another, with employers, with the government, for purely technical solutions, law, and finally, indeed, for a common financial area in the form of the euro area. And here I do not agree entirely with the President, Senator Klich. 'Cause he's the only one we can argue with right now. When he says the euro isn't for today. Yeah, the euro isn't in cash today, in markets or small shops. But as for the euro, we have already committed in the Lisbon Treaty that it will be. It is just a matter of agreeing, not adopting a European dictatorship... And here is probably the biggest proof in terms of the economy: desertion from the development field, from the field of European dynamics. Because in this group we do not have to say what the challenges are, since every other store in Poland is Samsung or Intel. Europe, including Poland, cannot accept the dictatorship and Samsung and Intel. He must have such a thing as Airbus, in many areas. And in order to have that, dynamics are needed, but the dynamics are lost. In this review, which I am observing, Poland took part on Brexit's side. Of course, the government was supposed to be on the side of Brexit's opponents, but on weekdays. By means of a number of acts, the coalition was built, and was in favour of weakening the Union, in favour of Brexit. What kind of acts? I remember the speeches during which Senator Pęk, the father of the present senator, spoke of Europe as thieves, oligarchs who rob the Polish economy. They were [[...Applause.]] I remember what Father Rydzyk in the PiS Coalition... [[But it was true.]] ...talking about a trillion dollars of money stolen from Poland by a supermarket system. [[But it was true.]] [[And he was right.]] I remember that even as intelligent people as those of Ordo Iuris denied everything in terms of Polish law and morals. I remember the PiS constellations with nationalists, participating in their demonstrations, in which every second sentence sounds rather than thieves and bandits from the European Union. I remember it wasn't long ago. I also remember that the elections took place under the slogan "Less Union" or properly "Leave the Union." The government was indeed on the side of the opponents, but the government and the whole environment That's what I want to talk about. They did nothing to create a safety umbrella... 1.5 million people who, under the law, agreed with the United Kingdom because it was involved in integration... [[You don't even read the papers.]] And today the marshal rejects everything we're trying to do to protect the so-called. European bankruptcy mass in England. That's why I'm saying that for the official propaganda, the government was against Brexit, but the whole community supported Brexit's supporters. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't judge. And believe a little experienced man. That your votes weren't counted in the UK. Their journalists, other people counted these votes and thought Poland was on Brexit's side. That is why they acted with such boldness yesterday, during the referendum, and appear today, after a referendum, consistently, perhaps more than other nations, the policy of Brexit, that is, the displacement of Poles. If this is not done by political means, it will be done by means of the pressure that we are facing. Last message. Once again in one city a Polish family was beaten, and after all there are many families of other nationalities there, and these Polish ones are not so hostile and do not reject English civilization ideas. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, if I overreacted in my accusations... Certainly, the Polish government cannot count the Dutch Presidency as successful. That's because such outstanding people have to say it. In Poland, today even Polish leaders, such as Jarosław Kaczyński, are trying to strengthen the processes already initiated as a result of the agreement... For example, it is a matter of agreeing to the functioning of the Venice Commission. President Kaczyński is demoting this committee, recognising that it is a meaningless element in Europe's life. I do not know if, if we deny everything so much, others will speak in defence of our interests as is the case in Ukraine at the moment. Then I challenge you, ladies and gentlemen. Change... Be truthful, as in St. Paul: yes, yes; no, no, and everything that is not European comes from the devil. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Silent...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u99	Thank you. Mr. Senator Bonisławski... No, Senator Bonkowski's speaking. I can put you to the floor. Mrs. Senator... [[I'll write the senator down...]] The senator will be in front of me because I'm waiting for a change. [[Good.]] Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Szymanski for the precise, responsible, balanced, factual and substantive information about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January, June 2016, during which the Presidency of the European Union held the Netherlands. I would like to thank you for these diagnoses, because this information... especially the questions went beyond the strict issues of this period. First of all, I would like to thank the Polish Government for the fact that at this very difficult time for the European Union there is a prudent policy, a multifaceted policy, a policy in many different formats. I'm talking about the negotiations that are taking place here. And a policy which is aimed at maintaining or acquiring the subjectivity of the Polish state in relation to those decisions which will take place. I was amazed at what Senator Rulewski said, who insinuated all sorts of ugly things here, with nothing to do with it, but that's no basis. I take it as an attempt to divert attention from what has been going on in the past 8 years, when the Civic Platform government adopted a vassal mentality towards Brussels. The peak of this vassalism was the famous statement by Minister Sikorski in Berlin, which can be summarised as follows: with you, the brightest Mrs Merkel, we stand, stand, and kneel on our knees we will kneel. That was the point of the Berlin speech. It was disgraceful, I as a face-to-face took the fact that the Minister of the Polish Government proposed to resign from our national sovereignty. And this, Mr. Senator Rulewski, is the facts. On the other hand, Minister Sikorski had a very accurate assessment of the Nord Stream 1 pipeline, the first thread when he said that it was under new conditions a new version of the Ribbentrop-Molotov system. And in that case, he was right, and in that case he erred shamefully. On these issues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the European Union is not a creation of noble elites, which are raised by a vision of europeanity, brotherhood, solidarity, a common heritage building a common future. There's a tough, real business game. And in this business game are bigger predatory fish, they're smaller, there's fences, there's sharks, there's dolphins The different countries could be mentioned here. In all of this one must be able to move so that there is no situation that we, with such naive faith and Euro-enthusiastic elevation, so much European and so much thinking about the creation of one European nation, will just at some point be deprived of the attributes of our national independence. And that's why all these ideas are about: More Union and the Union will actually save us because more Union means that the strongest players in the European Union want to have more power at the expense of smaller countries. This is what it comes down to, because they do not want to share their sovereignty in favour of a larger creation, which is the European Union. Just read the newspapers every day and observe what is happening in the Union, in which direction It's all coming. Therefore, the Polish government, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, including the authorities in November last year, faced very difficult, objectively difficult challenges. Immigration crisis, demographic crisis, economic crisis, EU institutions crisis, European identity crisis These are the powerful challenges that Europe is facing at the moment. First of all, it is important to reconfigure the arrangements within the European Union that have been in force so far. Because the deal is changing, this situation is dynamic. The European Union has enormous problems, such as the simple issue of maintaining competitiveness in the global market. Questions addressed to Minister Szymański also concerned the TTIP agreement, because it is a very important issue. Of course, it requires great caution and wise conversation, but please note that the center of the world is moving towards the Pacific, towards Asia. As far as globalisation is concerned, if the European Union did not have strong protective barriers, it would no longer be able to withstand competition in the global market. That's the reality. And this situation will still change. These are the real challenges facing the European Union. The question is: how do we reform the Union? I am glad that the Visegrad Group's voice, also thanks to the involvement of the Polish side, is increasingly audible. I am pleased that the prospect of a rational and responsible policy is being opened with regard to the immigration crisis. You can see clearly that... there are signals, there are certain swallows that indicate that there is some sobering after this band of mistakes, irresponsibleness and inability that we have witnessed in recent months, when this crisis has begun to turn itself on. And here the Polish government has a huge role to play. We need to look for solutions that will create opportunities for development, not those that will create further divisions and further tensions. I would like to point out that during this period, Poland was under the influence of various EU institutions. It was a bit like looking for a boy to beat. Since the Union is not dealing with fundamental fundamental fundamental problems, it finds a replacement in the form of supposedly threatened freedoms, alleged violations of procedures, alleged violations of the principles of the European Union, and thus tries to interfere I am referring to the various EU institutions In Poland's internal affairs. You know very well that the European Parliament's motion for a resolution even criticises the fact that in Poland a group of citizens submitted a project on the protection of human life. This shows that we are dealing with totalitarian tendencies. We are dealing with RWPG bis or with the Warsaw bis agreement, which wants absolutely to control all spheres of life. Fortunately, this was not the case in the end, but there was a project which shows the intentions of certain communities in the European Parliament. High Izbo, Poland faces very serious challenges, just like each of the 28 other countries of the European Union. The processes that are taking place in the world, especially the threat of security, and this is the foundation, that is what the European Union should be dealing with in the first place... Because collective security and individual European citizens are essential and must be ensured. Well, some say we're part of a war that's already going on. Hybrid wars, cultural wars, ideological wars involving terrorist activities taking place on the streets of multicultural European cities and territories of European countries. All of this requires discretion and some attention. I hope that there will be a desire to constructively seek solutions that are good for Europe and good for its Member States. I would like to appeal to the Government of the Brightest Republic of Poland not to deviate from the accepted course, but to take care of the sovereign interests of the Brightest Republic by pursuing Poles' aspirations to participate actively in the European project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u101	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor, Senator... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski? [[Yes. My name was mentioned.]] Was your name mentioned? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. What's more, Mr. Marshal, it's taken into account that I've been assigned a camaraderie... well, it's linked to Minister Sikorski's statement that the construction of Nord Stream 1 is a pact of Ribbentrop-Molotov. I absolutely disagree with that. In fact, I say that it was not the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact because it had to be agreed with all the countries of the European Union. I will tell you more, the construction of Nord Stream 2 and South Stream is subject to European approval. To conclude, Mr Marshal, if it were not for the European Union, it would indeed be like the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact. And Nord Stream 2 would have flown gas by now, just like South Stream.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u103	Thank you, Senator. Please, Senator Dorota Czudowska speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I put my mind to listening first. I did not have such a plan to appear in today's debate, but the speeches by the two senators simply prompted me to say a few words, or actually protest against the rhetoric recently voiced by the senators from the Civic Platform. These speeches show that gentlemen... Well, I don't want to use the wrong word. Gentlemen, with such nerves, you are attacking Law and Justice for the policy pursued by the Polish government in co-existence in the European Union, as if you haven't even read the papers. As many talks as our government had, Prime Minister Szydło about the situation of Poles in England... That's our concern. I do not remember the fact that in previous years in a situation where Poles are injured abroad, the Minister of Home Affairs, the Prime Minister's representative, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, went to the country to investigate the cause of the attack on Poles with the local authorities. We don't need to be rashly taken... In view of the situation that happened this morning, which shouldn't have happened, such voices, in the presence of the guests from Malaysia sitting in the courtroom, actually bring the account to the Senate, but I'm leaving it, it happened... Our declaration or our resolution wouldn't have given anything if the representatives of the Polish government hadn't gone there to ask why it actually happened. I also regret... I also had such a reflection on why there was not this voice of state all the time, when information was coming to us about what was happening in the Union... These are scandalous things, horrible things, when Poles are being picked up only because someone with a bruise on their backs or buttocks will notice or the child will come to an inappropriate temperature dressed for kindergarten, or complain about parents, which is quite common for children. And there was no shouting, there was no proposal to adopt resolutions so that Polish parents would not be taken away from their children just because there was a suspicion of some kind of violence or that there are bad material conditions. And it was happening, and it's happening. High Senate! The world... The world is matter and spirit or spirit and matter by the will of the creator. The agreement between matter and spirit, in a personal case between body and spirit, is peace of conscience, in a global dimension, peace. There must be a balance between what is related to money, what is related to the economy, what is related to human existence and the spirit that prevails in Europe. We talk so much about things that right now, in my opinion, aren't the most important. Only civil citizens of another civilization stand behind the walls of Europe so far. We are talking so little here about what is the biggest threat to Europe. This is Islamization, not individual refugees, which often requires our help... Because they require this help, every man who is hurt, who is hungry, who is cold, should meet with our compassion. But let's look at it differently. We're in danger of Islamism. I've already talked about it: matter and spirit. There's a word between matter and spirit. Let it be the Treaty of Lisbon, but let it also be the words spoken about 20 years ago in Santiago de Compostela by John Paul II : Europe will either be Christian or it won't be at all. This is a challenge for us today. And to say that Poland is against the European Union... I'll say it again: well, I don't think you guys read the papers. Last week, I had the chance. And not only am I, our entire Senate delegation during the visit of the Senate to Hungary, to hear the opening session of the Hungarian Parliament's autumn speech by Viktor Orbán. He said directly to Hungarian parliamentarians: if we want to assess the situation in Europe so real today, it must be said that only Poland and Hungary are EU, because we are the only ones who are really concerned about Europe's security. How many shouts were there even a year ago on Hungary, against the Hungarian government, which was building a network at the border of its country. Today Austria does it, Croatia does it, today Mrs Merkel admits her mistake... And no one then And the press and the media, which you had a huge impact on. He didn't say that the fences at the borders were created only where there were no posts where those borders were uncontrollable. No one defended immigrants. Even then, in this difficult situation of Hungary, the transition through legal border inspection posts where it was possible to identify the passers-by and possibly identify those who might be at risk. So that we really do not scare the European Union in Poland, because the politicians of Law and Justice... I am, let's say, only a woman, but I do not want to run to the bathroom, to the kitchen, to close myself to any dangers, phenomena that may threaten Poland and the European Union, which may threaten our existence, I will repeat this once again, our peace. And don't think that in the light of what's going on... I do not even know on what basis one can think that the Polish government, in view of what is happening today in the world, at the interface of 2 civilizations, at the interface of Christianity and Islam, to Russia, which so masterfully plays for itself, and probably Ukraine will pay the price that Poland paid for peace in 1945... There are such problems, and we do not see the role of strengthening Polish security. Now I am talking about Polish security, not just European security, in order for the Union to exist. Insinuate us or impudent us that we were behind Brexit, that's really disgraceful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u106	Minister! High Izbo! Yes, during the Dutch Presidency, the most important issue for the European Union was Brexit and he will bear, for a long, long time, influence on what this Union will look like. Mrs. Beata Szydło's attitude towards Brexit was twofold. On the one hand, the British position, in which it was clear that it was not for further integration, not for the integration decisions of the Union, was undoubtedly supported, was close to the government. On the other hand, of course, the government was aware that the UK contributions to the European Union each year were between EUR 11.5 and EUR 13.5 billion, of which EUR 1.5 billion were transferred annually to us. These are significant amounts. Moreover, from a political point of view for the Union, as well as for us, especially for us, because our country is on the edge of the Union, it was very important to support NATO. For this government, it was important that there was a community between PiS and Conservatives in blocking all directions for further integration of the Union. I've seen it in a lot of parliamentary meetings. The British people could always be counted on when it comes to halting the Union's integration ideas at parliamentary level. They could always be counted on, regardless of the party they came from, both conservatives and labists could be counted on in this regard. And it was visible. At this moment, of course, this ally is basically outside the Union, is about to be outside the Union and naturally no longer participates in intra-EU discussions. The duality, mentioned so, caused us not to encourage our compatriots to vote against Brexit. I know Poles who voted against Brexit... I talked to them, but it was a coincidence. And it was a surprise to me because I thought that for a Pole who lives in the UK and has double citizenship or only British citizenship, this matter should be clear. And there was no such position. It's not like we didn't want to interfere. Well, we didn't mean to. But why? It's not like for reasons like this, it could have been counterproductive. Well, Obama interfered. Obama made it clear... He went there, in a situation where it was known that there was a balance and that the supporters of leaving the European Union prevail. What were we doing? What was the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing in connection with the British Polonia? Did it do anything? I'm curious what this case was like. Brexit has weakened and weakened the European Union, that is clear. But is the response to Brexit to the UK's exit from the European Union, namely the weakening of the Union, to strengthening the Union by reducing it by blocking integration? Or maybe by retreating from some kind of integration plane? Well, that's very interesting logic: strengthening by reduction. Unfortunately, the Union's response... Well, not really. The Union's response is likely to be an attempt to further integrate. And it will be a test that will lead to a two-speed Union. Of course, the issue of the euro is important here. I had the impression that the only idea to change the treaty was to remove our obligation to join the euro area from this treaty. 'Cause that's the only thing that's been articled before. And it was written as clear and unambiguous. PiS says we will not enter the euro area. And the treaty says we're going in. Well, I understand that this element was very important. And this is the only element that you can say is that this is really some kind of proposition. Regardless of how I feel about this proposal, I can only see the proposal which is or was, so to speak, placed on the table. The answer to this two-speed Union is the fantasy, the ABC alliance. Well, it's a fantasy, totally. The transfer of proposals from the interwar period, when there was a different situation, and the historical transfer of this to today. What ABC? Of course it's a fantasy. And some of the rulers are aware of that. Some people in the PiS are aware of that. Therefore, the Visegrad Group is an alternative. So that the PiS Government's proposal is... The answer to this integration is to show that we will integrate in the European Union or to respond to further integration within the European Union is to show that we will integrate within the encore Union. Because that's how the Visegrad Group is presented, as if it were an encore union. I mean, we propose that the weak integrate with the weak and the strong with the strong. Of course, we are among the weakest. But so what? Such proposals within the European Union are good, but if we show this as an alternative to what is happening and what is going to happen in the European Union, that is, unfortunately, the way to nowhere. Apart from us, 3 countries, 3 Visegrad Group players, have different priorities in terms of foreign policy, especially in relation to Russia, whose aggressiveness is one of our fundamental problems. Premier Fico from Slovakia goes to Putin every now and then and tries to keep the best relationship and play his own game. The Hungarian Prime Minister agrees to South Stream, he agrees to build a nuclear power plant for Russian credits and Russian technology, and at that time he says: I am, Poles, your greatest friend. In the Visegrad Group the leader is Orbán, not Szydło. He is a leader, he is seen in the European Union. So the only real ally we have is Romania in the south, which has similar geopolitical interests like us, has a similar attitude to Russia, and also has a similar potential as us. The Romanian army is the size of the Slovak, Hungarian and Czech armies combined. Well, you have to be aware of that. And in the end... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] Now. Why isn't there an active policy that can get us out of this situation? If you don't like the Germans and you think Merkel is terrible and you have to get away from them, then Sweden is still there, there's Denmark who runs and has a policy just like us. Where are those contacts? After all, they need to be developed not only with Slovakia. They have to be balanced. Finally: I do not know why such nonchalance, disregard for the European Commission. There was a second discussion in Parliament about Poland, and the Prime Minister did not go. Why such disrespect, treatment per leg... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...Venetian Commission? The Sejm did not allow opposition, unlike the previous meeting with the Venice Commission. What about the Senate? In the Senate, I was the only vice marshal in this meeting. Vice-Marshal of the opposition... [[Mr. Marshal, because it's already...]] I'm almost done. [[You've been out of time for two minutes.]] Of course, this isn't about being overly self-absorbed. But I was the only vice marshal. And the meeting with this committee was chaired by the chairman of one of the Senate committees appointed by the marshal. That was a downgrade, too. That's where I want to stop. It is not that you lead Poland and defend not only against isolation, but lead to the center of the Union. Unfortunately, we'll be on the outskirts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jan Rulewski, please speak. I take it this is the senator's second speech? [[Yes.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My second speech begins by thanking Senator Czudowska and Senator Jackowski for joining the discussion that they presented allegations or polemic content. Senator Jackowski's speech can be considered to be the prime minister, which was a fair act, but for Senator Jackowski, He's a lower rank, because he's an intelligent senator. The polemics require the last words of Senator Czudowska because she pointed out that my accusations are shameful. I grew up in a Christian culture and this accusation is worse for me than if she called me a fool, because shame means moral value. I think she overreacted. I forgive you. [[I didn't say... it wasn't personal, it's different.]] I continue to uphold the allegation that the policy of the widely understood PiS camp, without a negative determination, was a policy directed against... for Brexit, in disagreement with the Polish interest, and was also credible. That's another charge. Yes. Superpremier or Mr Kaczyński, running the government, said he was against Brexit, but in fact in his calculations In fact, for many of us this was the case. Playing for the purposes of internal electoral opinion, he was in all his narrative, along with his camp, Eurosceptic, to say the least. He said that he would be against Brexit, that he would start Prime Minister Szydło, and in fact he was counting on a result that did not happen, that he was against integration, but the British people, the English people, would decide to stay in Europe. Unfortunately, these faithless calculations have fallen, they have fallen. I would like to draw attention to certain specifics. High Izbo, from the point of view of Poland's interests, and as Marshal Borusewicz pointed out, also in the context of integration processes, Great Britain was a brake. Firstly, it did not fully recognise the Treaty of Lisbon by applying certain wasteland for itself, e.g. in the European Social Charter. Secondly, invariably and consistently, she was opposed to increasing the budget or keeping it at the same level, which meant that Polish participation in the European Union at the level of probably 30% Mr. Minister, you can correct this. I won't be offended. The United Kingdom was aiming to reduce the role of the European institution, including the parliament in which it sits. And finally, thirdly, she joined... She didn't hide it, and now she's come to realize that this realization is happening on the street. It's about restricting immigration or the movement of the population coming there for profit, which actually hits us the most, because, imagine, when we go straight or on a little curve with unemployment, it's England. That's the problem he's giving us. It's not clear, the Minister didn't tell you why Prime Minister May was coming. I think that in order to limit immigration from Poland or to expel migrants who remain there illegally. In the end, when I said that not everyone... - Yeah, no. - Yeah, yeah, No, and everything non-European comes from the devil... I would like to persuade you, the government and our colleagues to see that Brexit has actually caused the English. It's not government. It's English. A counterweight to this and a prescription for this should be the building of a European identity among young people. If there's gonna be some kind of reform, That's what I think. Without the subject of European identity, Europe will not last. Because politicians may want something, but the referendums on this policy and politicians are knocking it over. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u109	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would not like to be understood as an uncritical euro-enthusiast. And I would like to stress very strongly Especially since there was such a question here in suspension: what do we get out of it? It is in our political and economic interest to be in the Union and together with other countries, in cooperation with them, to benefit from this. It could be said that if there is a country that has benefited most in recent years from a common EU policy, it is undoubtedly Poland. I think we agree on that. So it could be said that it is in our interest to cultivate these good relationships and good, wise consumption of the benefits that serve all of us. At the same time, if we looked at whether our participation in decision-making, as in institutional terms, was decreasing or growing, it would definitely have to be said: this participation, although perhaps not in a satisfactory manner, has increased. Poles, so to speak, grew in the Union, took increasingly important positions, had more and more to say. But I am unfortunately talking about this in the past tense, because you changed this course, which, in reality, was based on building smart alliances. You can blame our neighbors for the past, but reason tells you to try to stay with those who co-decide, and that's as long as it's in our interest. And it was in our interest to gain PLN 400 billion in the new perspective at the disposal of Polish society, Polish local governments. I would like to stress once again: the loss of trust will also have a very concrete dimension. I am afraid of this, and not only because, as you rightly pointed out by the marshal, we can find ourselves in the periphery of the Union and, unfortunately, in the periphery of access to the EU budget, but also because, within this perspective, we can have real difficulties using these funds. If this negative zoom on Poland is maintained, then any excuse will be good to question our expenses. Because it's not about fighting against potential allies, it's about building smart alliances. Finally, I will abide by this convention of quoting proverbs, as was the case with Senator Jackowski and Senator Chudowska. They have shown how it really is with our relationship... with your relationship with the European Union. Well, he's lined up with fears, he's lined up with false ideas. I must say that convincing here, in the Senate, seriously, that we are in danger of losing our cultural, linguistic and every other identity, that we are in danger of Islamization... Well, it is not really making serious arguments, but revealing this not completely understood by me argument, which is behind the reserve for our partners in the European Union. So I'm going to end this speech by sticking to the proverbial convention, so it's like it's coming out of the bag.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u111	I'd like to thank you for your speech, but I'm sorry. I don't think that was entirely appropriate. [[A proverb?]] No. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to point out a few points in my speech, which unfortunately seem necessary for me to repeat, because sometimes it is necessary to repeat itself as part of a simple pedagogy, which means that a less capable student must constantly consolidate the news. One lesson to be learned today by the opposition is undoubtedly a lesson that reads as follows: we all know very well that both the Law and Justice and the present government do not have any complexities towards the European Union nor do they have any internal habits That's what I'd say. Which would make the politicians of our formation do anything to prove the alleged will to leave... or the reluctance of our formation to join the European Union. I'm sorry for the historical comparison, but as a historian, it kind of reminds me of a historical moment, I mean. Poland's participation in the work on the Treaty of Versailles in the newly regained independence in 1919. I can assure you. I say it with all my determination as a historian. Roman Dmowski was the most European politician at the time, who could certainly be regarded as someone whom the state might want to call Eurosceptic, but that is not the essence and meaning of any policy... at least Polish, national, national policy, whatever we call it. Polish policy is not about insulting yourself, complexes or anything to prove the small intellectual formation of Law and Justice and the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło, but about protecting the national interest, i.e. interests of Polish citizens, because the Polish government represents not some EU strategy, but the interests of its own citizens... If these 2 orders are wrong and the government in Poland is to implement the plans of some EU corporation, EU officials, some imaginary EU country, it can indeed be said that the Government of Law and Justice and Law and Justice do not seek to achieve the goals of an imaginary consortium that is to be managed by anyone. The first and fundamental goal is to protect, defend, represent the interests of our country's citizens in a structure that is very important to us and undoubtedly extremely important from the perspective of dialogue developed between nations. The second very important goal For this reason, I have asked the Minister a question, it is undoubtedly to build interstate relations within the European Union in which the interests of the Polish state and citizens would be better protected, but indirectly, because the European Union is of interest to us, the interests of the European Union have also been protected as a certain agreement between countries and nations. It also comes from sovereignty, because it is our business, without a doubt, that the European Union should not fall apart, but rather the other way around. She kept getting refreshing all the time. However, it must be said that the crisis that is happening today, which has accelerated the issue of immigrants to some extent, but has only accelerated, because it was not the only reason for it, the crisis that we are experiencing from our Polish perspective. And here I am speaking more to the Minister, whether he agrees or not. In the long term, I believe that as Poland, but also as our external partners, we have not fully understood and developed a concept of what we called the extension of the structures of the European Union in the 1990s. It seemed that the accession of new countries to the European Union, those affected This is to a large extent the case for our region. If we do not want to remain in orbit in the influence of the Soviet Union, it will be a simple addition to the European margin in the existing structures of the European Union. But such conviction turned out to be, and rightly so, untrue. However, in my opinion, the previous governments of the Civic Platform have still maintained such a mythologized picture of the European Union, according to which there is a permanent and permanent block growing from the 1940s and 1950s, and we are a patch that has been added to the already existing and closed development process. Previous governments of the Civic Platform still pretended it was true. In whose interest, I don't know, it's rather a question to the predecessors But it certainly was not in our Polish interest, it is not and will not continue in such mythology, i.e. in such a belief that the entry of such a large group of countries into the European Union does not change the character of this Union. We are not an appetizer, we are not a complement, we are just a very serious structure of states, and we as Poland are a country which, when entering anything that is an external being, changes this existence. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense at all. We cannot be treated or treated as a margin of reality in which we function. I feel like it's the government of law and justice, even if ministers don't say it directly. Because they can't always say what they think, but I can, because I'm just a simple senator. It is currently implementing this leaping growth of Polish sovereignty in Polish foreign policy. We are not in the European Union to be in a closed, mythologized space, only to adapt it and re-create it as a full participant in this internal dialogue, clearly enjoying that this dialogue developed primarily by France and Germany in the historical sense, because it was those countries that had to work through their own history, takes place at the level of a very serious dispute, but without using weapons, without using everything that destroyed Europe mostly since the struggle for the unification of Germany in the years 1870 and 1871, and then as a result of huge fights during World War I and then World War II. And this is the good, the ruthless good in which we participate. In this sense, the European Union is a phenomenon that we treat with due honor and honor towards those who have developed such a method of discussion. But we don't agree as a sovereign state, as I understand it, to be an attachment to a project that is treated as a mythological being. This is thoughtless from the point of view of politicians who represent the interests of individual nations. And that's why I was asking if... And this question is very, very important in my opinion. I also asked you, Minister, how Polish politics sees... That's the question. not only to you, because this concerns not only your department, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and not only our MEPs, but also the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. This concerns very many areas of public activity. As you can see... Like you, Minister, you see this trial of ours. How neatly you said. The creation, just as strong from the point of view of developing an internal dialogue, the third framework? The framework of the northern countries and the framework of the southern countries have already been quite solidly shaped, while the central-eastern one is now being built, after years of lack of reflection. And, in my opinion, one of the most important elements of the discussion, if not the most important one, which should be carried out both in the Visegrad Group and to a wider extent, in this triangle of ABC, is Christianity, of course. Christianity... [[Time...]] I'm almost done. ...as a certain heritage, which is not only connected with a common European culture, but also creates On the basis of events we know from history A certain framework of historical experiences, to which a large majority of these countries may appeal, even if we were not always on one side in this Christian march, for example. We and the Swedes. This is a framework in which we can build a very nice language of common culture. The West of Europe won't do it because he can't afford it. The West does not want to be Christian, at least at EU level or at the level of this political blockage of parties and media that operate in the West as leading. And we can help them by creating a new language of Christian culture, including politics. And that's our big part. Whoever wants to participate in this is of course a separate question, but if we are to fund Europe on the basis of this Baltic scheme The Black Sea The Adriatic is this reflection on building a new language of Christian culture in the EU, political, economic, social, moral and other debates. Because Christendom has developed a language for all aspects of life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u113	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. I remind you, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u114	Yes, sir, thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There is a very interesting debate here, which also shows a philosophy of Europe and the practice of politics. Well, in short, there are sort of two general tendencies. One refers to the understanding of politics as a common good and European policy as building a common project on the basis of common values, but with its own separate national identities. On the other hand, the second vision accuses this first xenophobia, nationalism, and reaches out to these types of invectives. Supporters of this second vision believe that Poland, in order to be a normal country, should disappear into a nebula Europe, should forget its history and in some way be more European than anyone in Europe. In my deep conviction, this second vision is based on some form of complexes. This is what we had in our debate. . which give rise to the belief that asking for one's own subjectivity is non-European for one's own identity. This has exposed a policy model that has been practiced in the past 8 years, when it has been recognised that it is simply inappropriate to ask for national interests within the European Union, so it is not appropriate to ask for them. It was thought that Europe itself was so perfect, that these mechanisms are so perfect that even if we do not ask for our interests, others will still remember them and will make sure that our interests are realized. This is a naive, irresponsible, devoid of reality and harmful vision. For a very simple reason, Poland has such a unique civilization experience... Here I am thinking about the experience of multicultural, multi-civilization, multi-ethnic, multi-religious community, because that was the first Republic. This is the unique contribution we have to the European Union. This is our unique contribution. The Horodelian Union was one of the finest, this is the union of 1413, in case someone didn't know. The most excellent interstate agreements. It can be said that the European Union, at all, is appealing to the idea of building a wider community, among other things. to these experiences. And that's what we should be proud of. It's important to remember that in today's world... There is a statement that the British have made, I would say, to perfection: Britain has no friends, but it has business. I would advise those who have such a naive, complex vision of practicing politics to take the courage to ask for their own interests. He who does not respect himself is not respected by others. Marshal Piłsudski, if I remember correctly, said that one who does not respect himself is not worth having his own subjectivity. That was more or less what Marshal Piłsudski said. So that, Dear Opponents of the present government, do not be afraid, do not be afraid that the present authorities of the Republic speak of our national interests as the Germans speak of national interests, as the French say of the national interests of the French, as the Italians say of the national interests of the Italians, as the Spanish say of the national interests. Ba, just as Hungarians speak of Hungarian national interests, as the Czechs speak of Czech national interests, as Lithuanians speak of Lithuanian national interests, as Latvians speak of Latvian national interests, as Estonians speak of Estonian national interests. We could still exchange all the other countries. Luxembourgers also talk about their national interests. Little by little, Mr Juncker's career best shows that they can take very good care of their national interests. So don't be afraid. That's the first point. And two. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Polish government has a very flexible policy and not by chance one of the first visits of President Andrzej Duda was in Romania. These relationships, building... And that's exactly what we're doing. Romania is a very important partner of ours. It was a visit to Bucharest and another visit to Estonia. This political direction is a direction in the right direction. It is important to remember that now the whole art is to be able to play how many keyboards and at the same time not to lose sight of the whole and what is most important for us and for the whole of Europe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u115	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Would the Minister like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u116	I think that thanks in particular to the last two voices we came out into really broad waters, although this discussion started with a rather technocratic submission of information on matters, often very retail issues that have occupied the Union for six months, but this is probably the strength of the Polish debate on Europe that we can come up with a really wide horizon. Because if the European project is really going to survive And here there were a lot of voices, well, at least formally, full of concern about what's going on with this project, that it's important. So if this project is to survive, it needs to be rethought, it needs to be relived and we need to understand the really broad context, not just the technocratic details that I deal with every day. If we bury ourselves once in the technocratic details that are quite different from us from time to time, and forget about this broad perspective, which the last speakers in this debate have especially pointed out, then in fact, especially in view of the state of the Union today, this project may be subject to a huge question mark, which, from a Polish point of view, I would like to stress, would be bad news. I understand that some of the other interventions, speeches, especially at the beginning of this discussion, were maintained in the spirit of psychology of suspicion, even in the spirit of thinking about crime, because various people of public life were pointed out, who, in fact, behave in a certain way, but think something completely different, secretly implement an agenda that is directly contrary to every possible declaration of government. I think that a certain amount of distrust towards politicians is even justified, because we happen to say things that do not exactly correspond to what we want to do. But in cases where a hundred declarations have been made from the highest people in the country, to suggest that, in fact, we have been dealing with a completely opposite scenario... That also says something about our debate, the way we talk, the way we treat each other. I think this is also an important second point of reference, in my view, a very negative point of reference, in this debate. Let's face it, I've been trying for a very long time. I, but not only that, because also the document behind this debate was so constructed It is important for the interests of the Polish state in one half-year, one Presidency of the European Union, to address many of the issues described in quite detail. These were issues related to economic governance, budget, climate policy, energy, various, we remember this. I can say with certainty, but without satisfaction, that this has brought a very limited result. In response to this final debate, we could hear that even an attempt to raise the debate on treaty change is It's a quote. The knife stuck in the back of Europe; that Brexit was supported by the key figures of the governing camp, and even the government itself, only so secretly that it never fell, but it was neutralized by the more penetrating members of this House; that our policy on the budget of the European Union and the relations between Poland and the European Union boils down to a simple one and fall; that the Visegrad Group is in fact a European Union bis in the opinion of the government, which, in fact, works with the canoe from morning to evening on the disintegration of the European Union; that, in fact, behind the entire agenda, hidden of course, very cleverly hidden by the propagandist agenda, is the plan to get Poland out of the European Union. I have committed myself to you that I will answer in writing in a few cases. Maybe I'll ask you, because I can't oblige you to take this document that we've given you, and mark the passages that in any way, circumstantially, and preferably directly, somehow support these thesis. Because the thesis is spectacular, it could take us hours of discussion, but this discussion would unfortunately be completely barren, because these thesis are rhetorical figures based on the diagram that I drew attention to during the first tour of this debate. Schemacie, which leads you to a very simple procedure, simple but really shallow And I think that the Senate should not be the arena of such discussions for the procedure, which assumes that in order for the discussion to take place in an expected way, it is good to create a caricature, preferably an absurd caricature, and then to struggle with this caricature bravely and bravely to win over it. I take it as a specific, unintended, certainly unintentional compliment. If you are so notoriously, every time, because in every speech of the opposition senator it was the same, you must refer to the caricature of government policy, to the caricature of the picture of this government's policy on European Union matters, it means that the state acknowledges the implication that the real picture, described in detail, with all my shortcomings, seems to me that in detail also in the form of this debate, is not suitable for such polemicism, that this picture is not subject to such simple treatments as the brave struggle with caricature, which in addition itself has just been made worse. I have the impression that Polish European politics would be very helpful if we gave up such cheap tricks and dealt with facts, they took care of what is really important to us. [[Applause]] [[Excellent punch line, Minister.]] I don't want to worry about the Brexit issue, I'm just gonna let you know that whatever we want to do as a government... We have done much in terms of the competences we have, because we have prepared the most sensible, farthest-reaching agreement on the new UK membership rules in the European Union as possible. I mentioned what wasn't possible. It was not possible to trade the social rights of Poles without restrictions. It was possible to find a compromise, but this compromise could not go further. I hope that everyone in this room would feel the same way that this compromise did not have to continue, so to speak, to push. But that's not what's important. In this debate, it was said that, in fact, more Europe should be our conclusion from this whole experience. You know, I may not know everything about British policy, but if we had brought the UK in February this year a great renewal project based on the paradigm of the European Union, more Union, including a referendum against UK staying in the European Union would not have voted 53%, only 73% . I think what's more and worse is that if you hadn't been mythological about this country because it's said that it's a myth, and that's a serious word. But a melancholy idea... It's just melancholy. If this melancholy were presented by you today in the parliament of the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, I am no longer talking about the countries of Central Europe, you would have had the same result, we would have had another exit. If today we are beating our heads against the wall for reasons of merely melancholic habits, the habit of the fact that in fact the whole philosophy of European integration is based on the linear increase in Brussels' competences in all possible areas, it will be the easiest way to simply dismantle this mechanism and this international organisation, and not in a controlled way, as in the case of the United Kingdom, but in an implosive way, such that no one will control it and we will not know where we will be in three years or five years' time. I don't know if it's Polish business. I think a little more realism would be more appropriate. There's a lot of words I'd like to argue with here, but I'm just gonna say a few things. It is clear, of course, that the European Union sometimes becomes a boy to beat for many politicians. I really know many such politicians, not in Poland, in the West, in any case I know politicians who all their failures in terms of economic, structural, economic reforms, the economy of their country translate the common market. In their view, the common market is to blame, and it is mainly the migration of the workforce and freedom to provide services. I know cases like this, it's true. But is this supposed to mean that this right argument means that the European Union is suddenly to become the only public institution that is outlawed from the right to criticism? Is our liberal-democratic order to be built in such a way that we suddenly recognize, holyly, rightly, that we can criticize every public person in Poland, every public person in Germany, but we cannot criticize the European Union because it undermines its authority and seriousness? It seems to me that on such grounds we will not build understanding and acceptance of the European process. It seems to me that on such grounds we can only build on even greater levels of irritation to this artificial taboo, which is a test, actually a strenuous attempt, for many years practiced an attempt to remove the EU institutions and the Union itself from the natural, good, right and healthy right for public life to criticize. The European Union's due authority is by this government, by me in particular, protected wherever it is needed. But this does not mean that this is to be done at the expense of the authority of the Polish state. The authority of the Polish state is also a reference point in this debate. And when there is a difference of opinion, a difference of opinion, it is not obvious that, because of our good European conscience, we have to consider the authority of the integration process as the first point of reference. Because sometimes, even by taking an active and constructive part in the various kinds of decision-making processes of the European Union, we cannot, with a clear conscience, tell our citizens that everything is okay. We cannot authorize every decision of Brussels simply because we generally support the European process. This is a very shallow method that makes a growing group of citizens of the Member States of the European Union feel alienated in this process because they feel that they can jump any minister, can make a return in national parliamentary elections, but cannot criticize the European Union 'Cause it's some taboo, 'cause this is where we have to hold back. No. We should stick to the facts, we should weigh our words, but we can't build a completely absurd, artificial taboo. Let me recap: there is one point that did not sound in the debate, and it sounded here, at the end, and it needs to be clarified. It has been said that this Treaty issue, in general the movement of Treaty architecture, is the stabbing of a knife in the back of the European Union. That's a pretty strong statement, quite dramatic. I would say that this statement could even be true if Poland were to enter the European Union today and say: Treaty or death, goodbye, nothing else. We don't care, do whatever you want, we don't care about all these issues, tomorrow you have to change the treaty, then we'll talk. But you should note that the picture of the whole situation is a little more complicated. This is reflected in the document that we have presented to you and which is currently being debated. This is also reflected in my statement, which, as to the facts, was not contested. The truth is that Poland is today an active participant in good compromises on many important issues that are happening in the Union here and now, today. The truth is that Poland is asking and will ask for the European Union to draw the most far-reaching consequences in the form of a reform of the Union as a result of Brexit's experience. And the truth is also that I don't feel any taboo about moving the subject of a treaty change if it is necessary and if we build a willingness to make this change go in the direction we wish for. Because she can go in different directions. I do not understand another taboo that tries to enter the Polish debate I think it's to the detriment of this debate. In conclusion, I can say that I am not fully satisfied with the impact of this debate on enriching my view of what is necessary and what is wrong with the Polish policy towards the European Union. However, this debate certainly enriched my view on how the Union is being discussed in Poland and also on how the Union should not be discussed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u117	Thank you, Mr Konrad Szymanski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for presenting the information. I state that the Senate took note of information for the Polish Sejm and Senate about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January 2016 (the leadership of the Netherlands in the Council of the European Union). I remind you that according to the earlier announcement to consider item 2 of the agenda, this is the law on the works concession or service contract, we will proceed tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 274 and the committee report In print No 274 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Act on the amendment of the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and some other laws adopted by the Sejm on 14 September this year. The Commission has today examined a law, one of the main objectives of which is to amend the provisions of the Law of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of Coal Mining and the Law of 30 August 2013 on the grant of certain entities. The amendment results from the creation of a division of the "Gossarka" with fossil deposits and the creation of a part of the budget of the 48 "Gossarka" with fossil deposits. In addition, the law on the operation of coal mining extends the definition of the expression "mining undertaking" by including the concept of the Coal Company SA. A single person company of the Treasury carrying out tasks to repair the damage caused by the operation of the mining plant after its liquidation, including the damage caused by the reactivation of old works. This change will enable the Company of Coal Joint Stock Company to receive subsidies from the state budget to repair the mining damage of the liquidated mining plant. The law also clarifies the name of the task financed by the State budget to repair the damage caused by the operation of the liquidated mining plant. In addition, the Act in question amends the Act of 18 March 2010 on the special powers of the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters and their implementation in certain capital companies or capital groups operating in the electricity, oil and gas sectors. The amendments introduced in the Law of 30 August 2013 on grants for certain entities are also intended to allow funding from the budget grant of actions carried out after completion of decommissioning works in the Piaseczno mine mine, carried out by the Sulphur Machów Mine, which is in liquidation. The purpose of this law was also to amend the Law of 11 February 2016 on the amendment of the Law on Departments in Government Administration to authorise the President of the Council of Ministers to transfer, by means of a regulation, planned revenue and budgetary expenditure, including salaries, between parts, divisions and chapters of the State budget, in order to implement certain provisions of the Act of April 1997 - Energy Law. This law also amends the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining in the years 2008 to 2015 and raises the budgetary expenditure limit for the years 2015 to 2018, from PLN 3 billion to PLN 7 billion. During the debate at the committee meeting, Senator Pekkis took the floor in the discussion, asking about the legislative procedure adopted in the process of the bill. Senator Augustyn asked about the reasons for raising this ceiling on budget expenditure, which I have just said, from PLN 3 billion to PLN 7 billion. And Senator Komarnicki asked what about the buy-out of coal as part of the creation of the so-called. reserves. This question, although it did not concern the subject matter of this law, was answered by the Director that there was a meeting of the Sejm Committee on this subject, but the content is not public, because then the committee was sitting as a secret committee. Your Senate, Minister, Mr Marshal, the committee requests that the attached draft resolution be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please remain. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u120	I'm not a member of the committee, but from what I... [[Can I have the microphone, please?]] It's on. Can you hear me? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Good. Again. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not a member of the committee, but I'm surprised at the first case. This is probably unprecedented, so that in the government project a grant of PLN 3 billion is foreseen and that during the process in the Sejm an amendment increasing it by PLN 4 billion is reported. It's huge money for the budget, especially if we look at next year's budget deficit of 60 billion. Such an amendment has been tabled and I would like to know what the justification is. Because the very fact that he is voting on a change in the Seym for an amendment worth PLN 4 billion... I am a senator of the first term, so I don't know if this has happened in history. But it's a lot of money. I would therefore ask for justification. What was the justification for these additional funds? What are they meant for? And if that wasn't the case, if you haven't discussed it, then of course I'm about to ask a government representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u121	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, questions were raised regarding the increase in this limit. The legislative procedure provides for amendments to be made by Members also during the legislative work in the Senate. This proposal was submitted on the basis of information that was available to me; it was submitted during legislative work in the Sejm. According to your Director of Information, this is only about raising the limit from 3 billion to 7 billion. This limit may be used to restructure employment, to cover the current production losses of liquidated plants, to finance the decommissioning of mines or mining plants. Such information was presented at a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u123	Thank you. Senator Augustine, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u124	Mr President, I have actually asked questions, but these answers I have received have not been clear. I asked, among other things, whether the mine decommissioning process would be significantly expanded so that more than double the expenditure limit would have to be doubled. I did not hear the answer to that question, perhaps you heard it. The next issue that bothered me was the mandate of the President of the Council of Ministers to move between departments, chapters, paragraphs in the budget of funds so that money could be found in order to achieve the objectives of this law. At least that's the way it's put in the Legal Bureau's opinion, so we have it in the materials. If that's true, then I would ask you to confirm or deny that, in fact, the budget records that we have and which we will design will be possible by virtue of this law, so to speak, put between fairy tales, because you will be able to move where you want to go, where you belong. Do I interpret these records correctly?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Using my mandate as rapporteur for the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I can answer the question to the extent that it has been answered by the Minister or by the Director. In this case, you answered the Director. It is clear from the information we received at the committee's meeting that these measures will be used to eliminate mining damage, including damage that may occur after the end of operation. In view of the fact that a significant part of the decommissioning plants after the closure of their operations have an impact on the mining area where the mining activities were carried out... these measures will also serve to repair the damage caused by the reactivation of old works. That's all I can say as rapporteur right now. If my answer isn't enough, then the Minister here might, I think, say something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u127	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I'm not a member of the committee that examined this bill, so I have this question: didn't you get the draft at the committee meeting, the information about what this amount was going to be allocated to? Have you gained only such enigmatic knowledge as you present to the President: if there is damage, we will cover the damage, if anything happens there, then... Didn't you have any interest in this? We're talking about the amount of PLN 4 billion or a total of PLN 7 billion to design what this is going to be spent on? Haven't you done this on the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u129	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u130	This was explained at the committee meeting. This limit covers the period of 2015, i.e. four years. And this is I will stress this once again, and this is explained by the limit of resources which can only be used to the extent covered by the law to finance the decommissioning of mines. And I would like to say here that the process of eliminating mines it is not a low-cost process, it requires great care, it also requires water protection, protection against uncontrolled methane leakage from decommissioned excavations, protection of the surface from possible mining damage, as I have already said, even after the operation is completed. It is therefore difficult for me to argue with the senator here. I think that these subjects were explained quite extensively at the meeting. If that's an explanation... Of course, this explanation of the Ministry is enough for me, but if you don't, then... I have no authority to extend this subject beyond what was taken at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u131	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski. Welcome. Would the Minister like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: I can.]] Come on in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Maybe I'll fill in the senator's questions about the size of the funds, the increase from 3 billion to 7 billion, why it is so and the mode... As far as enlargement is concerned, it is important that we say up to 7 billion. This is the amount that was calculated when the Polish Górnicza Group was established, as well as when it was the order of Jastrzębska Węglowa. We agreed to update the spending of funds at the Company for the Restructuring of Mine And I'm going to tell you what this money has been spent on and what it's going to be for. After examining what we've already spent as part of the plans that the previous government has set up... Because these 3 billion are the amount of the previous government's assumption, and these are the measures that practically No, less than 2 billion, so with 1 billion 700 million They have already been spent on tasks that have already been transferred to the SRK during the previous period of transfer of certain parts of mines and have been actively liquidated. Maybe I'll read it: e.g. KWK.Brzeszcze East in 2016, that is 90 million, next year it will be 97 million; KWK.Centrum. is 187 million, next year it will be 218 million; Mysłowice mine is 37 million, next year it will be 44 million; Kazimierz Juliusz mine will be 34 million, next year it will be 34 million; KWK These are, and we need to realise, the sizes that are associated with the decommissioning, the security of the technical parts of these mines that have been transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. That's why it's important... And I'm glad that the questions are coming up in this case, because it shows us that the mine will be destroyed... It's often said, let's take down the mines because they're unprofitable or something... And this isn't cheap, closing mines isn't cheap. Therefore, it is important to take such decisions in the restructuring process to relieve on the one hand individual entities such as the Polish Górnicza Group or Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa from those parts of mines that are unnecessary in coal production, so... This is the case in the case of the mine, the room, we plan to transfer the processing and there is a plan to liquidate this part of the mine, which we have already talked about in our program. And that's what it's written down for next year's $300 million. So the money spent, 1 billion 700 million... This is the process in which we are in, because in the plan we have to give part of the KWK - the room, we have in the plan to dedicate Jas-Moss from Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Next year, the mine will also take a deposit and de facto property, which will remain, will not be needed for coal mining in Katowice Holding Węglowy and will also be transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mine. Today the SRK mine, the Makoszowy mine, which generated 222 million zlotys this year, is also open, next year it will be 214 million zlotys if it is fedres. These are new events, that is, securing the technical part and carrying out a smooth process of liquidation, surface protection and dehydration. But in our program, in the government's program, it's also that in the case of technical parts we've offered employees of individual coal companies... Those who are 4 years old to retire and want to retire more quickly can move to SRK under this scheme. These sizes are also included here. I have to say that the interest is quite large, and that's why these sizes were converted after checking, after we analyzed how many people in individual companies are interested in going to SRK together with the parts we pass on... This shows that for 4 years, together with ZUS credits, we will pay adequate pensions. And that's what's been included in this program. After examining and submitting the programme for notification in Brussels, after examining it by our government, we noticed that this amount must definitely be increased, from PLN 3 billion to PLN 7 billion, among others. because we are talking to the social side and we are proposing social and social issues, we must also have budget resources for this. These funds are accounted for each year, which does not mean that they are transferred once. Every year we settle the funds transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, because it is the only company to which the European Union consents. That's where we can process the mine parts, and that's where we put it in our program. As regards the question of the transfer of funds between departments, this concerns, please, the establishment of the Ministry of Energy. Some of the tasks of the Treasury Ministry were transferred to the Ministry of Energy as you know And along with these tasks, some people went to the Ministry of Energy. The fact that these people have moved to the Ministry of Energy is linked to salaries and obligations resulting from work at the Ministry of Energy. Therefore, we introduce the possibility to pay these people in the Ministry of Energy for their work, for carrying out tasks which are already in the Ministry of Energy, and before that they were in the Ministry of Treasury.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u133	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're the first Senator Komarnicki to come forward. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I asked that question at the Economic Committee meeting. The first thing I could take as... what the Minister has just said about spending not 4 billion PLN, but 7 billion PLN, although we have not done an exact economic calculation... I'd like to ask the Minister, by the way, if this extra money is meant for... Are they, or do we enigmatically want them to be? Because these are two different things. That's one thing. And the second question... Minister, I didn't get an answer from your people at our economic committee meeting. Well, the Material Reserve Agency has invested money in buying coal, because it was the will of the High House. I would like to ask you how much of this coal, Minister, has been purchased for what amount and where this coal is today, what has happened to this coal and what is happening to it. Because for a good cause, we should already have a clear, clear and clear answer about this situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u135	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u136	As for the Material Reserve Agency, I will also encourage the senators to convene a closed committee meeting. Due to the nature of the agency's activities, we have prepared precise information in connection with this question, which was also asked in the Sejm. This information is classified because, as you know, it is not only about buying intervention raw materials, but we also have a whole range of purchases that we have in this agency. This is related to the security of the state. I do not want to evade the answer, but I suggest, because of the nature of the activity, that we may convene such an extraordinary meeting of the committee also with yours, with a security classification, so that you can fully understand the functioning of the agency with all the details, as well as with details on raw materials issues. And coal is in Poland. [[Excuse me, I understand, Minister, that you are thinking of the Committee on Economics and Innovation. Is that what you're thinking?]] I mean, I leave to the senators any kind of committee that would be called on to do so. I can only say that then, with colleagues, representatives of the agency and the department, we will present ourselves to you even with specific issues concerning the functioning of the agency. However, you must understand that this is classified and hence... It's about getting knowledge, seeing how it works. Well, we accept that information, we know what it's like. You will see the scope, the nature of this, because it is also quite interesting and gives a certain picture of the functioning of this entity at all. As far as complements are concerned, I would like to say that the measures are. It's not like these funds have to be here and now in this budget. These are the years 2015 and 2018 and so it is spread over time. We ask the Minister regularly to spend money and keep it accounted for every year. Thus, these measures are, of course, planned until 2018. This year we have a certain pot by the end of this year and we will ask the Minister of Finance to be prepared to mobilise funds in individual periods at the Company for Restructuring of Mines. Therefore, we give up to PLN 7 billion, because it may turn out that if certain processes accelerate or there will be no such interest of people who have now expressed the will to switch to checks, we do not spend funds in this size. But it certainly shouldn't be 7 billion zlotys. I will just give you an example to illustrate the restructuring process, for example in Germany, where a much smaller number of mines than in Poland was subject to restructuring. And, ladies and gentlemen, between 2010 and 2013. Germany has spent EUR 6.3 billion on the restructuring process and this whole area related to the hard coal sector. Spain has spent e.g. 2 billion EUR 700 million. So that shows that, of course, the measures we are talking about are large, but when you look at the scale of the problem, on the scale of the challenge we are facing, you can see that compared to other countries where mining is definitely smaller and the process has been carried out on a smaller scale, they are significantly smaller amounts in the state budget, which does not mean that these 7 billion zlotys are little.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u137	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u138	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Minister, the government project provided for 3 billion PLN, and the parliamentary amendment makes it 7 billion PLN in total now. You are now perfectly able to justify that you need, as you say, to PLN 7 billion, which means you do not say PLN 4 billion, only PLN 7 billion. We're talking about the size of these measures. And you can justify right now that this money is needed. But the government project didn't foresee it. You said that to date 1.7 billion PLN has been spent, which means that there is still a little bit more to spend these 3 billion PLN. Therefore, since this is a programme spread over time, I still don't understand why there was such an urgent need in the case of hard coal. Because if you look a little wider I'll be done in a minute. What we've been going through here in the Senate, which is RES, in a moment's time, brown coal... Maybe I'll also say two sentences on this subject, what is the issue of rehabilitation, etc., because there are mining damages everywhere and money is needed everywhere. And here is an additional 4 billion zlotys. Yeah, I'd like that. to know what restructuring activities will be initiated with regard to the Coal Company, which country you are planning there. Because from what you're saying... Well, in general, you say that these 4 billion zlotys will be used. We'd like to know exactly how. Because maybe that $4 billion isn't enough? Maybe we need more? We can understand that the transition of miners to early retirement, etc., checks... Well, it all costs money, but it should have arms and legs, based on some kind of justification. How can you change in a week or a few days in the Seym the amount of money from 3 billion to 4 billion PLN and say that we will see, maybe we will use this money or maybe not. Up to 7 billion, or not 4 billion, or maybe 6.9 billion, because this is up to 7 billion. Minister, we're asking for some details, more details about what's going to happen to this money, because in a moment... Maybe I'll go back to other things, for example. to brown coal. There are needs here, too. I don't know what our strategy is. Do we want to close as many mines as we can if we need so much money? Are we going to bet on another energy, or will brown coal be the basis for further action, as has been the case so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u139	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u140	To answer that, I'm saying it's got arms and legs. KWK.Anna, almost 144 million, KWK, Brzeszcze East, KWK, almost 98 million, KWK, Centrum, KWK, Mysłowice, KWK, 44 million, KWK, Kazimierz-Juliusz, 34 million, KWK, Zozbark, 3.5 million, KWK, God's Gifts, KWK, 131 million, KWK, Room, 300 million, 633 thousand, KWK, Jas-Mos. In KWK's case, 214 million were foreseen. That's pretty much what we already know. Plus, there are employee issues. We are also considering the issue of the evening, which we are also writing here, as I have already said. There is also a question of scrapping the KWK Sląsk deposit, for example, the issue of scrapping the KWK Sląsk deposit. And these are the issues that are foreseen in our programme for the coming years. We also estimate this for 2018.2017. As the negotiation process with the social side is still underway, we do not yet know whether some parts of the mines will come down in June or March or September. It's a matter of getting along with the social side. There are some smooth deadlines here, but it doesn't seem to be because we don't know what we want. Believe me, we know very well what we want. And that shows that this process is not a matter of turning out the light. That's why these sizes are so big. And why are there four billion more? They didn't show up from week to week. The project was submitted at the beginning of August, which is when we prepared this analysis. When we recounted it, we saw that we were unable to offer credible briefings, and we felt that in this revision... We did not want to introduce this next year, so we took advantage of the possibility of increasing this amount to 7 billion, and in addition we submitted a proposal notifying the whole process in the Polish Mining Group. Why not just on vacation? Because that's when we set up the Polish Mining Group. We could only review this carefully when we set up a new board of directors and signed an agreement with investors, with banks, as well as with the social side. And then we were given permission to carry out certain restructuring activities. These sizes appeared in July and the project was submitted in August at the Sejm meeting. The Parliamentarians, after presenting these calculations, found that the amount of 7 billion would be justified in terms of this expenditure pool in the restructuring process. So believe me, we're asking for this size, not 6 or 8 billion, because we have quite precisely prepared simulations. As I say, these are simulations, not precise calculations, but we must not run out of resources because we would become unbelievable in talking to the social side. As employees retire early, we must not miss the financial security. If we are unbelievable, we will not be able to talk to the social side about signing the relevant agreements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u141	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u142	Minister, I counted this quickly in my memory when you were talking about these numbers, and I got about 1.5 billion, maybe 1 billion 600 thousand. You were talking about 1 billion 700 thousand last year, so what you were talking about, plus those plans you have... Well, that's a long way from $3 billion. You said this decision was made a month ago when the project came into the Sejm. Well, sir, if for a month you're raising that amount from $3 billion to $7 billion... Now you're saying that this money is needed. And you didn't know that a month ago? Yeah, something's not right. It's taxpayers' money, and we want to know exactly what's going to happen to that money, because I'll tell you that in other industries as well... What about brown coal? The same is the need for money, resources.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u143	Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[I'm almost done.]] ...but there'll be time for the speeches in a minute. Now is the time for questions. [[Okay, good.]] Senator Blackbay, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would immediately like to say that this inquisitiveness in our questions is not at all... It is not that we do not want to support you or the government in the restructuring of Polish mining. Minister, if you can request written information, which will be... The Minister gives the data, gives, I don't know, five numbers, but I don't remember the sixth. There would be a lot less questions if... that's even done in the basic unit of local government, in the commune. If the uncle wants to spend a thousand zlotys, he'll tell you what he's going to spend it on first. You want to spend 7 billion PLN. I don't judge if it's little or much. From a general point of view, this is a large amount. My request is this. May I present this in writing, Minister said? I don't know. 1 billion 700 million. Technical restructuring of mines like this, like this and this. 3 billion. We leave the reserve, because if there's more... It's about figuring out what you're planning to spend 7 billion zlotys on. If you can request such information in writing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Good.]] And a second request. What the Minister has presented... I think this is a very interesting initiative of the Minister. If you and the committee presidents could arrange a meeting of the Committee on Budget and National Economy on these... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski:. It's about the reserve agency.]] ...material reserves... And two more questions, Minister. Is the laying of these 7 billion zlotys preceded by some analysis You're doing it directly. What's the economic impact? Is there such an analysis? It's a matter of principle: it costs us 7 billion PLN and over 20 years there will be no losses at the level, I don't know, 2, 3, 5 or 20 billion PLN. It's about something like that. Is this bill pulled? If it is, I'd ask you, if you don't mind, to introduce it or to that information I was talking about earlier, to join me. And then there's the technical issue, so simple. How many mines do you plan to restructure? So you don't use the word "close"... How many miners do you estimate are going to retire or are you going to retire?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u145	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u146	As far as calculations are concerned, we do not count so much in the drawing account as we analyze them by creating a business plan in individual companies, which is based on an investment plan, on a sales plan. And so on. in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa we will change the extraction The coal from energy coal towards coking coal, because coking coal is in the resources of the coal mines of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and it is definitely better in the price market. In doing such mining work, we have a better commercial effect. Assets... In Jas-Mos, which I mentioned, the deposit is exhausted. This mine is exhausted and its maintenance is cost-effective, tax-based Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, which in turn... It just increases the cost of Jastrzębska's operation. That's where we move her to S.R.K. Philosophy is such: build in the Polish Mining Group, in Katowice Holding Węglowy, in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa strong organisational entities so that what is unnecessary today or is needed... Next year this will be the case with the mine. The Rydułtowy mine, which is in the Polish Mining Group, joined with other mines, comes down to us as part of the estate and we want... We have the law, the consent of the European Union to carry out the process related to the functioning of the SRK by 2019. We want to make the most of this time, because we do not know if we will get the Union's consent for the next years. We want everything that interferes with the healthy functioning of mining groups - the idea is to make them economically and organizationally efficient - move to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. This trial has not yet been carried out. I can't tell you why. If some work had been carried out earlier, we would have had a different mining situation today, we would have reduced costs more quickly in a different price economy. We today, among others. through the transfer of this property to the SRK, we reduce the cost of tons of coal. How many people are going to leave? Today we estimate that between 10 and 12 thousand people are interested in this. There is a proposal for people who wish to leave voluntarily for early retirement. These aren't briefings, as it used to be under the rule of AWS, it's going away for early retirement. This automatically reduces the cost of coal extraction by individual mining entities, which also reduces the cost of coal extraction. In addition, the whole investment process, which makes us want to, paying attention to the access to the deposit and the more efficient extraction of the deposit in individual mines, to make the operation of individual mining groups more efficient. Of course, this is also the case with energy issues, because, as you know, we are building a symbiosis of energy and mining, and we are also analysing the entire heating system in Poland. As I once had the opportunity to present also in your House, we are primarily concerned with building raw materials constructions in mining on the Polish market. What, apart from Poland, is to be added element, mainly we are to secure the raw materials of the Polish energy and heating market. And from here, it's like... Thanks to the fact that we move, we automatically cause the mining entities to function effectively without having this clock, this load... [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u147	You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u148	Minister, I fully agree with the logic of your presentation, but once again I would like to repeat the question... As far as the number of employees is concerned, I have already received an answer, but I will repeat two more questions. If there's any way we could've done it without that argument... Because I fully agree with the logic presented by the Minister in order to be clear, but please answer me the question of whether there is an analysis of the economic outcome of the changes carried out in some period throughout the industry or in individual mines and whether this is taken together in some way. Yes or no? If so, I would ask for access, and if there isn't, it's a shame there isn't. And second question. How many mines within the framework Let me get this straight. The program that goes into my mind and into my heart will be shut down? I know it's hard for you to answer that question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u149	For the first question... You know, every company has an approved business plan and the business plan shows a performance forecast, otherwise we wouldn't have made an agreement with financial institutions to move our payments over time. And now, if we keep it on the assets of individual companies, it's extra costs... [[But that's not what I asked, Minister. Mr. Marshal, can I have another one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u150	Yes, yes, of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u151	Minister, every company, as the Minister has rightly said, has a business plan and a result. We're gonna invest so much, we're gonna restructure, and so on, and we're gonna make this result over this period... And now that we've added all this And I say, it's the owner who should do it. We'll get a result in relation to the industry. Is it done? If not, then I...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u152	No, no, we have the reports regularly, we are the ones who are able to present them to you. Because if you... Because I don't understand... Are you talking about the whole business? [[Minister...]] Is this about selling... [[...I'm gonna ask you this question in writing so that I don't prolong it anymore.]] Because, you know, we cut the business plan into every entity, seeing that it had to come out of the company. He's gotta get out of the company or he's gonna cost us the money. But independently we have to consider Jastrzębska Spółka, because we have another market, the Polish Górnicza Group is another market, Katowice Holding Węglowy is another market, although slightly similar to the Polish Górnicza Group market. And now it's a matter of clarification as to whether you're talking about sales, size, investment outlays... 'Cause I don't quite understand your intention to cover the whole sector...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u153	Then why don't we just... [[Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]] The question will be asked in writing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u154	...in writing and the question will be simple: please present the financial result within 20, 10 or 15 years. That's one number always at the end. The financial result is one number. I'm not interested in individuals. I'm interested in the whole hard coal industry. Is this a setup? If there isn't, I'll get the answer that there isn't. [[Voice in the O.R.: In writing.]] But then there's this question about the number of mines that you're going to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u155	We are considering, due to the depletion of coal deposits in the Silesia mine... Currently, two deposits are being drawn up, which are likely to be completed around May, June, and we are conducting talks so that next year the mine of Katowice Holding will be transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mine. It's hard to say that we're shutting it down, because when a deposit is taken, when an asset ceases to function as an active, healthy mine, it's hard to say that we're shutting it down, it closes itself. It's like an old car that no longer has parts for. Well, it's hard to drive it... [[You're running out of deposits...]] [[...then we'll eliminate...]] We have... It's just that it's... I'm afraid to use the word "remove." [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Why? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll tell you why. Because the opposition wants to say that we want to eliminate, too. Once founded in the Polish Mining Group, in the Coal Company, there will be 6 mines, and I want to say this: we leave definitely more mines because we have chosen the formula of complex mines. The predecessors are saying that we're running a program for the previous government. We're not realizing it right now! Senator, forgive me, but with these questions, you're trying to show that we don't have our program, we're just doing our predecessors' program. This is not exactly the case, because, for example, the formula of complex mines, retirement, severance payments, the transfer of part of the estate, which was not in the plan of the predecessors at all... Examples are the mines of Peace, Jas-Mos, Rydułtowy. These are things that... an example is to establish an energy and mining connection on a slightly different basis than the previous ones. For example, the question of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, where we bought in one of the financial institutions, in one of the banks... Then we carried out an investment plan and thank God This is noticeable on the stock exchange. And this is not the end of the restructuring process, but it is the setting of a strong foundation for Jastrzębska Węglowa and its conversion towards coke coal. We know there wasn't one last year. prefers to carry out such a process of sanation, even financial ones, and engage in discussions with investors and financial institutions. So these are the elements added, these are the elements that are completely copyrighted, this government. We're talking about some mines going to SRK. If I use the word "remove," you say "remove," just like we wanted. And that's not exactly what it is. We're diametrically different. Why? Because the mine was not considered as the one that is being deposited, and it is the cost element, the most dangerous asset in the Katowice Coal Holding. We're gonna get a deposit that's armed, which means we're pulling out what we can take out, then the mine stops being an active asset, and we're handing it over to the SRK. This is the result of the analysis that was carried out. The same applies to the Krupinski mine. [[They're no longer an asset to the mine.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say yes. Let's be honest, the mine, the mine, the mine, the Sośnica and other mines were to be handed over ad hoc. We don't transfer the mine to the SRK, we use the deposit that is. Please note that we have adopted a completely different philosophy, we have adopted the philosophy of using the deposit. Today, for example. We're thinking about the synergy of the mine and the mine, the merry mine, about something that was an abstraction for our predecessors. Why? That's because the joy is in the Katowice Coal Holding and the Ziemowit in the PGG, so we have 2 structures and the same deposit. See that such a discussion in previous governments was not at all, these assumptions were not at all. [[Ex-boyfriends, ex-boyfriends.]] I want to show that we are discussing here, talking about a completely different philosophy when it comes to the operation and management of the hard coal sector. We create synergy, we combine. I mean, if it's like... about Katowice Holding Coal, then, please see, we will invest in 2 mines, there is a complex mine here, Stashic and Happy. For the mine we will try to create a formula of a very important asset, which is already mined under the... We want it to be a training mine, so we want to give it a different character. And as far as the Krupinski mine is concerned, which can also go to SRK next year, we are trying in this area to start activities related to the hard coal sector, but of a different nature. So please note that we're trying to replace something that's kind of coming out of the market with new projects. Believe me, such ideas, such projects, such a program was not in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 or 2014.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u156	You're welcome. [[Could I ask you a question one last time?]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u157	Minister, once again I would like to say that I do not wish to say Don't worry, sir. That you are implementing the program of the previous government. That's one thing. [[And they were...]] [[He was.]] [[Mr. Senator, was there a show like this?]] It was for the studs, for the stallions, but he didn't leave. You guys just made it happen. [[But I'm asking you to ask me a question.]] [[The bill is ours.]] [[You don't know anything about that.]] Excuse me... [[Quiet, please, and ask for a question.]] Minister, use a nice vocabulary, I don't know what it is. How many mines will go to the restructuring company... [[The assets won't pass.]] ...in the form of inactive assets? [[Yes, sir.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszewski: Part of the mine...]] No, give me the number. [[Yes, a number.]] How much? 100, 200, 300, 500? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszewski: I can exchange them.]] Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u158	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u159	The Mine of Peace, part of the Mine of Rydułtowy, part of the Mine of Ryczorek, Jas-Mos, probably next year, when the deposit is finished, part of the Mine of Silesia, then Krupinski, and that's it. There is also a discussion on the mine, the Sośnica, which today has been given the chance to demonstrate whether there is a possibility of generating profits from this mine. And that's all that can be passed on to the SRK. So I'm showing it to you because I know what's in the plan after I've analysed which mine is of value within each group.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u160	Thank you. The question has been exhausted and specific mines have been mentioned. For ordering purposes: the Minister understands the concept of mine closure differently, in the sense that closure takes place when the deposit is still in place and the mine is closed, and from this it is necessary to clearly distinguish the process of ending the mine as a result of the depletion of the deposit. These are two completely different situations. Yes? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Yes, of course, exactly so.]] On the other hand, when it comes to convening a committee meeting on reserve agencies, there is no need for intervention by a marshal or a vice marshal, it is your decision through which you wish to do so. We have a declaration from the Minister that he will give you information, so I leave you to the decision through which committee you wish to do so. I don't think there's a problem. The Minister declares his willingness to provide information. Another question, Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u161	Minister, on the occasion of the previous amendment of the law, which I remind you of the law, has yet to be adopted by the previous government... There was a specific plan that you're enriching, and you're trying to be more flexible. SRK... Notabene, we wanted to get the deposits, not close the mines immediately. So the difference is that the state before the transfer, and we... et cetera. It doesn't matter, it's not that. I wish you well, and I wish you still... You have a much better relationship with trade unions, use it to restructure mines. Good luck with that. Nevertheless, some of the environments are concerned about this movement. I had the opportunity to get acquainted with such statements of inhabitants of Silesia and workers of mines. 'Cause it's in art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two words... [[But I'm asking you a question.]] ...from the beginning, that money is meant to be used to eliminate mines. But I'd like to ask... Because the amendment of the article. 2 is carried out by adding the refund also the operations carried out after the closure of the mines. It's the only general phrase under which you don't know what's going on. Because everything else is, so to speak, called by name and by name. And that's not it. What's this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u162	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u163	As for the programme, Mr Senator, it is true that the bill was prepared in this formula by the previous government, was adopted by Parliament and the Senate. We've been updating it at the end of the year. But I want to say very strongly that the plan... We all remember what happened in Silesia. Prime Minister Kopacz announced the liquidation of 4 active mines from day to day. There was no show that would show up. I want to show you that this is a really important difference. And I don't mean that we should argue. However, it is very important to see that there are significant differences. I'm not saying I don't take it from my predecessors. Because certain decisions, such as those relating to the Centre, Screaming, etc., were good decisions, and I do not question them. Nevertheless, it is also necessary to say that we have found... so that you may be aware 'Cause we're forgetting it. That all the companies were actually in bankruptcy. We took the challenge, we decided we couldn't let the Coal Company fall. 'Cause the effects would be unrecognizable. The same applies to the Jastrzębski company. Therefore, we started a very difficult process of first building an entity, i.e. creating a Polish Mining Group, then pulling out a company that allows us to manage mines... This is not yet a complete process, we are really in the process of restructuring; we now have talks with Katowice Coal Holding. And the liabilities of a Katowice holding company today are 2 billion 500 million And one-and-a-half actually due, which is 400... so that we're dealing with a bankruptcy situation, that's what we found. The process that we are conducting today should be started earlier. Then there would not be such difficult phenomena in individual mining groups. As well as having to think about what we are thinking about today, that is to say, consolidation of scattered mines through complex mines. And now, as far as we're concerned, we're defending ourselves by the harsh word "removement"... Because we need stability in mining. We finally have to show the workers that someone has an idea for mining that we actually want to have them. Because there was a situation that suddenly everyone noticed that there was an increasing debt in individual mining groups and suddenly, from day to day, it was said that some people didn't know where to work. This has made it difficult to build management staff and these people need to power this industry. Nobody wants to go into an unpredictable business. That is why I am also very strongly emphasising and showing some clear actions to build the peace that is needed around the industry. Not because we want to get tense, just because this peace is needed for new young people to want to go into this business. We already have a generational gap today, and we know that some of it is, after all. We're gonna lose people. That's why I'm so precise. Because we even, ladies and gentlemen, in public discourse, notice, have not developed concepts that communicate properly with people who do not know this industry, and with people who are in this industry. Because usually liquidation means it's definitely raining, which means that the mine is being destroyed and the end, period, people are going somewhere, they're fired. Us, for example. We don't fire anybody, we move employees from one mine to another. We have an analysis of where we need some people in the hard coal sector. This is, of course, also the whole issue of mining companies, which somehow function in the industry. We need to sort this out, too. Hence, I can so often show differences in conduct. Because let's notice that negative phenomena have really been happening around this industry in the last few years. The brand in the hard coal sector at all has connotations to say, gray, not to say black. And yet we need this sector for Polish energy, we need it for energy security. So there is no question that this industry is right to put economically, organisationally at such a level that future declines in raw material prices will take place. After all, we know that once it's economical, once it's deconstructive... The point is that we can avoid these phenomena that we have now and create an efficient hard coal sector. We also need to know one thing: that today we are taking a certain balance on the amount of coal in the market we need. Why? That's because we're going to use this coal much more efficiently than we have so far, because we have new technologies. This is also an investment plan in energy, which, I think, will also have an opportunity as a ministry to present here. And this means that in this energy mix, this consistency of raw materials and hard coal, and brown coal, and other media must be well compiled, directed. The point is that in the perspective of energy investments we can secure our interests, our state rations when it comes to the Polish economy. There was a question about the Coal Company. That's what I missed. [[No, Minister, I mean what the words mean: actions performed after the work has been completed...]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, With the Coal Company, I'll be fine. So that I'm sorry, I remembered that. As far as the Coal Company is concerned, the Coal Company has ceased to be a production company today, but from previous periods. After all, it was created from 5 coal companies. It has mining damage that it has to carry out. After the establishment of the Polish Mining Group, we must enter into an entry so that the Coal Company can meet the obligations of those companies which were at the heart of it so that it could carry them out. And now, if the mine ceases to function, then the damage remains, there is still settling the ground, there are obligations arising even from certain judgments. And that fits, among other things. in that question you were talking about. Even when the mining plant or part of the mining plant was closed down. The effects of mining damage are far further along. They're not just about an active, functioning mining plant. Examples? For example, in S.R.K. we have expenses on dehydration. This is the issue of CZK, that is the issue of the pumping plant Bolko. Pay attention to the sulphur mine of Machów. After all, this is something that is no longer exploited, and the effects we have now and we will have for many years, or actually always, because there are recreational tanks that need to be kept in some sort of order and order so that the water mirror does not flood the surrounding areas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u164	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u165	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, Minister, he has two questions. The first relates to this law: can an average early-retirement check be determined? The second question is that I'm taking advantage of your presence in the Senate so that... the retiree miners ask me about the coal debt taken from them. At what stage are you working on the bill you promised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u166	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u167	As regards the deputat, in June from the Ministry of Energy the draft law was submitted to the interministerial arrangements. Officially in September, we asked the ministries for a comment and then around October, the project will go to the Social Dialogue Council, because its representatives reported that they would also like to give an opinion on this law. So that, I think, after the public consultation somehow in November, we should have this bill back in Parliament. Currently, one civic project has been addressed to the committee, and we want these two projects to be glued together in order to reach a single position. We are after talking to representatives of the social side who accept this procedure. This is a commitment that we, as the Ministry, have been talking about and we will continue to do, because in fact such an arrangement has been made. About the first... [[Average check-in height.]] That's 75%. pensions, so depending on who's paid today... These are different functions, so that the range can be significant, because depending on who will be calculated the pension in the ZUS... For four years, he gets 75%. He's entitled to a pension. So, depending on his position, on the function he performed, working in the mine... It'll be calculated by the Social Security Office. [[The highest and lowest.]] It could be $4,000, $5, $6,000, it could be $3,000, because depending on the function... [[Isn't that 40, 50, 70 grand?]] No, we're not talking about briefings, we're talking about retirement. And 75,000... [[Czesław Ryszka: No, no. I ask about the amount of this average early-retirement check.)]] As I recall... [[But on a person or globally?]] [[For the person.]] What else is retirement? It's 75% here. pensions and what else is a briefing. [[Czesław Ryszka: I ask for a briefing because people expect 40, 50,000.]] As far as I can remember, the administration, because it was covered by the administration... That's the amount of $60.70,000 paid at one time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Probier. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u169	Minister, you've been performing your duties for less than a year, so in the context of your statement... There is a great deal of action here that has been taken, and it must be borne in mind that these actions take place in a deep deconstructive environment, because energy coal prices have reached slightly more than 40... Luckily, they've gone up a little bit now. [[They grow, they grow.]] About 60 right now. Would you be tempted to make a synthetic comparison between your actions and those of your predecessors over the past eight years? Compare the social effects, because there were very bad things happening for the predecessors, such as Jastrzębska. It is what you have already mentioned: the philosophy of the actions of your predecessors, the philosophy of your actions and the comparison of effects, but in a telegraphic summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u170	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u171	This is, for example, looking at the Hawk Coal Company... The decision which was such a nail to the coffin, as one might say, was the decision to purchase the mine of the Knori-Szczygłowice. We were all aware. And I had the opportunity, then as a parliamentarian, to talk about it. That the mine of Knurów-Szczygłowice requires investment, and then Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was no longer in the best financial condition. This allowed de facto survival of the Coal Company, as I remember, for six months, but it caused that the funds that went to the Coal Company, were, to say the least, eaten because they didn't go for investments, and Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, as someone said, bought a Mercedes for a garage and didn't have any fuel, and suddenly it was financially even deeper as regards the situation of the company itself. Note that in November, when we arrived, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa was the entity where there was no And that's very important. Analyzes on individual mines. At what angle? As regards the availability of the deposit, the number of walls, the quality of coal on individual decks, the number of employees, there was no analysis concerning these workers. Unfortunately, it wasn't all there. As far as the Polish Mining Group is concerned, access was easier, because it was possible to extract certain data from individual presentations or information, but only after we started the ministry and after issuing the instructions did we analyze each mine separately. And this caused us to start making decisions about whether we are building, like in the Polish Mining Group, digging complex, and if so, which one of which mines. This concerned, for example, the excavations of red, very difficult mines. Because the situation of the mine is difficult. In view of the fact that the mine This is also the case, for example, with regard to the mining of the Rydułtowy mine, which was incorporated into the complex mine. In a natural way, we take deposits, and the Rydułtowy and the assets will be transferred to the SRK. This shows that in the management of each mining group there must be above all an analysis of each digged or excavated parts when dealing with a complex mine. And that's the big difference. That's also the approach we've taken. The same is true today when it comes to Katowice Holding Coal, and we were still surprised, because the new board, which presented us with the state of investment, for example in the case of the mine "Merry-Mysłowice... Well, that makes us have another shift in months when it comes to the effects of the funds invested. So I want to say with full responsibility that we have applied and applied a really different philosophy in the approach and management of this sector. And here's what we've been doing these analyses for, and that's why we're planning investments to respond to the market situation. This is the first time we've built relationships. At least I don't remember having such simulations in the last 10 or 15 years. So to say, under the recipient, we build it for a specific energy industry, for a particular individual or, as is the case with coke coal, for a foreign customer in the steel industry. This also makes investment plans cut differently, otherwise they are prepared. Because we also want this restructuring process not to be an action process, which is that we put out a fire for a year, for two years. This, of course, is a great challenge. That's why I'm very careful talking about any success this year... Although the situation on the stock market is pleased when it comes to Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. But this is de. In fact, it's only the foundation of the whole building, and you have to think about the coupons we're gonna cut off from it. God forbid! At the end of next year. And yet there's a question of ordering up sales, for example. Because we have, ladies and gentlemen, a huge surplus of coal on the market because energy has bought tens of millions of tonnes, and we are talking here about more than 20 million tonnes of surplus coal on the market. And de facto Katowice Coal Holding is extracting coal, which is already sold because the holding received prepayments. That's the situation we're in. Notice that, at this point in time, the application of simple management mechanisms had no chance at all, because in the case of these companies, the bankruptcy situation should in fact be declared. If we choke too much coal today... As you know, we are not able to recreate power at the right time. Because it's like if the mine doesn't invest today, it won't have any effect in two years. This is a process that needs to be predicted. That's why we're analyzing how much coal we have on the market today. I think it will be very interesting for you to deal with the issue of coal intervention. I must tell you that, in general, you should be parliamentarians, it advises you on these decisions, because we will certainly not lose this in terms of the prospects of the state. Because, on the one hand, we are creating raw materials reserves for which the agency has been set up, and on the other hand, we are definitely building some facilities for the future. E.g. some coal sorts in Poland are not mined because there was no investment in these coal deposits. Coal doesn't always mean the same thing, even when we're talking about energy coal or coal for power plants. In addition, what is important We build the cost elements in the mines so that we can have as little cost as possible. Currently, every mining group, I am talking mainly about the Polish Mining Group and Katowice Holding Węglowy, is being tried on the prices with which we are colliding on the market today. If prices improve, we will pay back the debt we found, and in the case of the Polish Mining Group we talked about almost PLN 7 billion. These are enormous arrears, colossal commitments. In the case of Katowice Coal Holding - Like I said. This is PLN 2.5 billion. These are debts shifted over time, for 10 and 15 years. We're assuming an increase in prices, because we have to say that the increase will come, without a doubt. When it comes, it will be a question of continuing the investment, but also the repayment of commitments that have emerged in recent years. And we can never again lead to such a terrible, so big, so huge debt of individual companies and cause that on prepayments... that we've actually been paid for the coal that hasn't been extracted. This is an absurd situation that, in the event of a crisis, causes us to be totally strangled in particular places. Therefore, the arrangements with investors, which result in us acquiring funds from our entities for investments, which are intended to allow us to bounce back on individual mines and create sound, healthy mining assets. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is another philosophy when it comes to governance. We're also gonna need executives. As the professor, the senator knows well, we know how to extract coal, but we also need managers who can sell coal well and offer it properly on the market. So we also want to create a management group, which will be stronger on the market, not as it has been so far, in terms of our specialists in the hard coal industry... We also want to push around in the energy market; this is certainly and will be a challenge for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u172	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u173	Thank you. Minister, why are we still importing coal from Russia? Why can't you stop it? Is that necessary? I've heard that we mix it with Polish coal, etc., that it's even needed. What's the philosophy in this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u174	We need a small amount of coal, I admit. In Katowice Coal Holding there is a kind of coal, which is actually good to mix, but these are small quantities. However, the influx is at the level of... This year it is increased, I find it with regret. It's as if we feel that in this process someone is also trying to interact quite strongly from the outside... We have a problem with the construction of an appropriate recipe. We wanted to go first. We are in the process of talking to the Ministry of Environment and not only To burden coal from outside the European Union with what we call the climate package, because our coal is burdened with carbon. Turns out we're having trouble notifying that rule. Now we're wondering if maybe more... In order for other raw materials or carriers that enter the Polish market from outside the Union, to pay some tax to make coal, which is outside, also competitive on the Polish market. Because today we know that when it comes to coal coming from the East, especially from the East, transport is subsidised because this country is not in the European Union and can apply other criteria. At least we've had a meeting at our ministry lately, because we're determined to make some restrictions, because it's ruining the market for us, too. And that is a very valid question, a very legitimate point, but I do admit here that we have a problem with the construction of a provision that would not be undermined by the European Union, which we could carry out through the notification process, obtain the consent of the OOKiK. We have a problem with that. We are determined to make such a provision, however. He will definitely help us on the Polish market, because the Polish market comes into the market with 7 These are de facto 3 mines that could function peacefully. And that would certainly help us in this restructuring process, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u175	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to respond in writing to a question asked by Senator Czarnobaj. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork. You're welcome, Senator. [[And why did my name disappear?]] [[Order.]] [[He's here.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, you were talking about energy mix, energy security, and that's very important. Therefore, we need to look widely at what is happening in the case of hard coal, and we need to look at this energy mix. Not long ago in this room, we made a law, also very important, concerning RES, among others. important energy from windmills. This energy was generally blocked in Poland. From the information I have, it appears that the companies are retreating, decommissioning. This is not possible, in accordance with these regulations, which we have said here, that once they are introduced there will be no blockage in terms of wind energy, which is the important part of RES. The next important thing about security, about energy mix, is brown coal, which I'm going to talk about in a moment to move on to hard coal. What's the situation with brown coal? I come from a region where there is a horse hole, formerly Turkiv-Koninian, but in Turku practically no more coal is extracted. We're dealing with brown coal. I think Minister Majszczyk left just now. I saw that she was present. And we could probably talk about the budget, resources and finances for a long time. Because I remember how hard it was to get about 1 million or 2 million zlotys for some specific purpose in the budget. And here we're talking about a substantial amount, which, as far as coal is concerned, maybe it's needed, or maybe not, and I'll get to that. But I'll go back to brown coal. Now I would also say to Minister Majszczyk that the Minister should think, because maybe next year we will need to prepare funds for the budget. And I'm giving you an example of a horse pit. If, by the end of the year, the Minister of Agriculture does not farm 220 hectares of land there And he waits, he moves the decision a few times, the analysis does. It is another important power plant, which has only as much coal as it needs for the next period as it needs for this one new power block, will have to be extinguished because there will be no brown coal. There's no way to get that coal back because there's no way to get it back. Therefore, I am talking about a few thousand mine workers, power plants, which unfortunately will also have to be exempted or protected. So this is a broader aspect, because there is also a problem of brown coal and there are other problems. And of course, if the decision of the Minister of Agriculture blocks... And what it means for the region to have several thousand jobs, how this will affect the region in its jobs, on the development of the region, is, of course, clear. I would like to point out that I can, as was the case at the committee meeting, snap my fingers and ask you to reserve 1 billion zlotys for brown coal, because there are also needs here. And now, with regard to what the Minister has put forward here, it is, of course, possible, Minister, that this money is needed and that it will be spent in an appropriate way, only that we have already talked about it many times. It's been going on for years. These measures And that's our money, that's taxpayers' money. They must be well, rightly spent. And therefore I cannot vote in favour of passing on these 7 billion PLN, without having a specific financial settlement and not knowing what it will be used for, at what time it will be used or what it will look like. Because when it comes to what you are talking about, Minister, about the merger, about the economic account in particular groups, etc., we certainly all agree. As for the need for money to cover jobs, we all agree that it must be regulated in some way, so that those who want to go to early retirement have the opportunity. But, of course, it costs money. We must remember that the state budget is not a bottomless well, especially since you are about to talk about the restoration of the retirement age at the level of 60 and 65 years, and this again means another billion zlotys. And I'm pretty sure there's no money in the budget. Every dollar that's spent... In local governments it is viewed and checked five times and should also be here as far as the budget is concerned. That's the perspective of how many years there are. It is possible that the economic situation in the market with regard to the price of coal will be good, and therefore perhaps it is appropriate, as they do... I'm going to give you an example of brown coal because that's what I know more about. Not so much on the stone. As far as the area is concerned, the mine must recultivate it, forest it, land it, etc., so as to leave it in the same... The mine should also bear the costs of decommissioning. It's just a matter of who's gonna pay for it: whether it's the state budget or... Well, if it is a private company, it will bear the costs, but the costs for the region will also be significant in this case. Therefore, once again, I would like to reiterate that with such an increase in funds, especially if this happens within a month, everything must be explained, justified. It is not enough to say in general that we need 7 billion and that we will use them. Therefore, I will certainly not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u177	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u178	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! This novel act on the functioning of hard coal mining is certainly a milestone in the restructuring of Polish mining. The sum of PLN 7 billion, which determines the upper limit of this expenditure, is not only sufficient, but should also return to the budget. It is mentioned here that it is intended for cover, mining leave, for one-off cash checks for outgoing miners, for activities related to the financing of mines transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. First of all, And that's my main idea. This is the last moment to reform the mining industry, to protect Polish mines from bankruptcy. And here I will allow for a sad conclusion that unfortunately the coalition of PO and PSL has wasted 8 years and has not implemented a repair program. Especially is the fiasco of the creation of the new Coal Company, about which the former Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz spoke with such conviction as if she believed it could work. How it ended, we know. When Prime Minister Beata Szydło took over, there wasn't even money in the accounts of coal companies to pay wages. Fortunately, money for payouts was found and, above all, a new program of restructuring of the mining sector was created, Polish Górnicza Group was established, and in addition, it is already in operation, the Company for Restructuring of Mine. The entire corrective programme should be completed by the end of 2018. Minister Tobiszowski presented his assumptions here. We all wish that the Minister would succeed. As Senator of Silesian soil, I hear many complaints, especially from miners, and I would like to share these complaints, doubts and questions with the High House. Miners raise doubts e.g. whether the persons currently appointed to high positions in mining plants have prepared a professionally designed business plan and will consequently be able to implement the appropriate strategy that the Minister has presented here, talking about the future of this sector. Of course, it is not their fault that most mines have not been made since 2011 until now, e.g. investments in new deposits, new walls, these re-investments. For this reason, the void that could cause the collapse of any mine may even cause this restructuring programme to fail. If we finance restructuring only understood as checks, as a security for people going to pensions, etc., and we do not invest in these mines in new deposits, etc., we will only support the process of putting out unprofitable mines. The lack of these investments may result in the entire restructuring process missing the target. Such a thought of the future was lacking in previous years. I hope it is not lacking for those who are now introducing and directing this restructuring. That's what I hear from the miners. The miners are also talking about the current poor management of mines by the new management boards, and even the lack of responsibility of specific people for the wrong solutions. They also talk about the ineffective activities of members of supervisory boards, about the poor organization of work in many mines, including the inefficient use of machinery parks, especially combine harvesters. I have already mentioned that the investment has not been carried out. I would also like to stress that this coal potential should be directed towards the development of clean coal technologies. Let me remind you that at least 20 years ago, we've been talking about coal gasification technology. 20 years ago, in dreams like this, he made a career with the miners, and he still does it today. Jerzy Buzek. I understand that on the scale of the economy as a whole We'll have to wait, but we've got to get on with it. It's not enough to be done in labs in polytechnics or other factories. There must be no shortage of resources for this type of research and the subsequent introduction of such solutions into the economy. The recent audit carried out at the Coal Company and Katowice Coal Holding showed that the way mining works should change dramatically, that repair methods must be adapted. It's a good thing the Minister talked about it. . individual, selected for each mine separately. Technical, commercial and legal activities should also change. It is a pity that... changes require provisions in the Geological and Mining Law Act, many regulations, which I have not heard about in this program. However, what should be done as soon as possible? I think that we need to draw up the country's fuel and energy balance immediately, now and for the future. I have heard that it is already being worked on, but I think it is not yet there, until now Poland does not have such a document. The issue of fees and taxes should also be examined. Let me remind you that mines pay various taxes, which also affect their very difficult financial situation. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to two things. I already raised one question: it is a question of importing coal from Russia, and the other is compensation for mining damage. In the case of the first case, the problem relates largely to the sale of the so-called. coal used in our households, but mined by Polish mines in relatively small quantities. In order to cover the shortage of this coal, it is reduced annually, mainly from Russia, in the amount of 5 to 7 million tons. However, if Polish mines were to mine this coal, they would certainly improve their financial balance in this way, and this needs to be considered. We also need what the Minister said should be the right EU notifications. The second issue, very important for the inhabitants of Silesia, is the issue of compensation for mining damage or maybe the construction of repairs after mining damage. As I'm told by the victims, it's a real road through torment. This is something like this: first, the victim makes an application, if the mine is guilty, the mining damage inspector arrives in order to determine the extent of the damage and repair, then the so-called. a pre-measure of works, executes an estimate, and then the mines entrust repairs either to the victims or to an external company hired. And this is where the staircase begins, namely the mine announces an auction for repairs to companies, proposing some starting price, and the company that will undertake repairs for the lowest amount wins. This usually means people without skills, knowledge, tools, people who are very badly rewarded, who do so at the time. repair of many damage in the building. Specifically, the working-hour rate in such a company is less than 8 PLN net. After all, only workers with the lowest qualifications will be paid for such a salary, and specialists are needed for house repairs. The number of injured and threatened is constantly increasing, the case does not find an honest epilogue in Polish courts. Perhaps they will remain seeking justice abroad. Of course, this would be the worst and most expensive solution. Therefore, it is asked to develop a formula for sustainable development in which victims and vulnerable people are taken seriously and honestly. And here I would like to add a little bit with a snack that these injured people were treated more seriously as Polish People. To conclude, mining needs to be changed and repaired in every way. Partial actions in advance are doomed to failure, and money spent on so-called. reforms or, as fashionably sounds, restructuring will be wasted. Only comprehensive and decisive actions can create a new quality for Polish mining. And such decisive action I heard it definitely in the Minister's words. I wish you well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u179	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It has been a few months since you promised from this speaker that we would get to know the overall plan for Polish mining, because he rightly said, Mr. Senator, we should know, it is necessary and covers not only the restructuring of mines, but many other issues. What we are considering here is still only a partial approach, a little enriched with what the Platform has proposed, flexible, and very well, let us cheer up so that from what the Minister has proposed here, we can do as much as possible, because it is certainly extremely difficult, complicated. I went out on the stand because in Silesia this bill raises some doubts. The use of beautiful words, euphemisms, is about increasing, significant in such a short time increase in resources, which may be intended, among others. for the decommissioning of mines, as set out in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, waking up, of course. There's some concern. While there are assurances that this is about damage, that it will be a slow process, etc., it must be remembered that this is surprising. We who work here for a long time remember how many question marks appeared when suddenly, from day to day, there appeared in Parliament some huge money for mining. That's when they were talking about the mining lobby, about pressure, about strange stories. Here again, it's been a month or so since the government made the offer, and suddenly you need that money by 120%. More. That was the reason for the many questions, and that's why we've been asking questions. Minister, I must say that at this point, it is difficult to accept your answer as satisfactory. I don't count on it so fast either, but when you tried to tell me exactly what the money was for, and why the mine, it stopped at 2 billion. And we're asking why seven, not three, as planned. So this is still a matter for us, I think, of all the senators open. We don't exactly know. Either someone trusts that it's what the Minister's talking about or it's not. Me, for example. I note that it is said that it will be dedicated to some actions that will be undertaken after the mine has been destroyed. The Minister in response calls them in part, but I am surprised that they have not been clarified in the law itself. In this situation, it could really be anything. In the second part of the speech, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the mining situation cannot be considered separately from the energy situation at all. It must be remembered that mining, Polish mining probably permanently, structurally will face too high costs in relation to the costs in these hard coal mines, which are open-cast. There's probably no way to fix this. All the more so that we need to feed deeper and deeper in increasingly difficult conditions, and the coal we're extracting. According to data known to all senators It's not, unfortunately, as good quality as it used to be, you can say it's getting worse and worse. Hence the necessity of e.g. Buying coal, even Russian. And no spells can change that. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to the Minister because I remember that the election campaign mentioned that a comprehensive development plan for Silesia would be submitted. That's what we need. As the Minister says, we must outline the plan of what will happen to the mines. That's right, because there are certain people working there, and they should know what's going to happen to them. But not only that. It is also necessary to say what is to be in Silesia, since mining, wanting not to, will be less and less, and due to environmental requirements, and for economic reasons, and because of the existence of mining damage that needs to be repaired. If we included this in the total coal bill, and we had to, it would turn out that every tonne of coal would charge extra costs. Because money for other activities, even the 7 billion, doesn't come from mining. In fact, we should include them in the price of coal. Then we'd know how much it really costs. Therefore, I call not only for a comprehensive plan for mining, for companies and miners to know what awaits them, but also for it to be linked to a plan for the whole Silesia, because we have something to follow. Others, in Western countries, have been going through this process. During the debate, it was often pointed out in the Ruhr Basin, where the operation of mines and many burdensome heavy industry plants, from which Silesia is still famous, have been extinguished. And today the region is a leader in the production of renewable energy sources, it is very attractive tourism. Really, there's something to watch. And there's nothing to deny and tell people who work in mines, miners that it can go on forever. You have to have the courage to say: Silesia with much smaller mining can be an interesting, rich, beautifully developing region, with state-of-the-art technologies, using the potential of the people who are there. They're educated, they're smart, they're entrepreneurial. That's how you look at them. Because whenever we limit the thought of Silesia to mining, we really degrade this region. In your mind, not in reality. It seems to me that it is worth it and that it is high time to fulfil this promise and present such a development plan for this region, so that it also regains its pride, which he had over so many years, the pride of the region which did not burden Poland and which was dragging Poland. This may be the case again, even more so, with modern technologies in completely new areas. It seems to me that it is better to invest billions in this than to forcefully preserve something that can in no way be profitable and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u181	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would like to address a few words to you not as a person who comes from Silesia... Silesia is a distant land for me when it comes to Poland. Nevertheless, I would like to look at what concerns the problems of Silesia also the perspective of the person who is looking at what is happening and what the Minister said today, from the point of view of an undertaking important for Poland, corporate enterprise. What Senator Ryszka said in his speech... I agree with most of them. Without going into details, Mr. Senator, about who's to blame. Because, of course, because the predecessors didn't do enough, they were punished in last year's election. The essence of the matter, Senator and Minister, is what you also said here: that in drawing conclusions... And conclusions and science are an important element in building strategies for the future, not just for the moment, so to speak, flooding problems with 7 billion. But the question that is a little bit to me, Minister, disturbing... If I say so, we're putting it into investment. It is widely understood, because it helps people who are 4 years before retirement and want to leave the industry, it is also an investment, an investment in man... But the most important element is this. Senator Augustine spoke about this. That we must build for Poland a complete vision of the functioning of energy, including coal. Because charging 7 billion zlotys... and as I asked... We don't know what the effect will be in ten or five years. This is an undertaking. It's very risky. Do you know a company in the world that invests 7 billion zlotys and when it presents a programme for investing these 7 billion zlotys, doesn't know what the results will be in 10 years? This is ridiculous. In every company I'm not talking about corporate anymore, but in every small company. How do people invest a thousand zlotys, they ask: how much do I make? And we're investing $7 billion here. I asked the Senator, the rapporteur. So the committee decided it was the right thing to do. Well, it is a little disturbing for a person who is not from the energy industry, is not from the hard coal industry, but who looks comprehensively at what concerns the Polish economy, Polish finance and economic development. And if we look at the situation in which we are in, and in what situation are the countries of the old European Union, the British, Germany, the Dutch, who were mining coal at a similar level... As I read in the report, listening to the Minister, it is said in this study that we are at the level of their problems 30 years ago. And you have to prepare a thing that will be a comprehensive solution. Because from today until 2018 7 billion, Minister, but what next? What's next? Are the mines gonna balance? Are we going to have a situation where the mines are going to have a positive financial result? I read studies on the Polish Capital Group, where it is assumed that only in 2017, with good forecasts, the Polish Górnicza Group can oscillate around zero. Yeah, but where are the investments, development, modern technologies and other things? Therefore, it is good that there is some inhibition of the erosion of problems. That's one thing. Secondly, I very much like the Minister's personal involvement in the issue he loves, I see, and understands. Plus, Minister, you have to add something that's connected to the strategy when we're done. Just as 30 years ago, the countries of the old European Union founded what they have achieved and have a certain effect today. Furthermore, this study, Minister, also shows that the following phenomenon occurs in the countries of the old Union: The importance of RES is increasing. And even though you have passed 5 more laws that will stop RES completely in Poland, you will not stop the development of renewable energy sources in the world and in Europe, including Poland. Just as the workers did not stop automation when it comes to the entry of automatic machines into industrial plants as part of the industrial revolution. You can't stop it even if you've made 10 more resolutions. At the same time, other energy sources are involved in these economies, and coal consumption is falling. Coal consumption's dropping. Another important thing is that European coal is no longer, so I read here, competitive towards the coal extracted by the opencast method. And when I looked at the forecasts of today's mining costs, as far as what's going on in Poland is concerned, we're mining... the cost of mining, not counting the subsidies that Senator Augustine was talking about, is $65. Today at European transhipment terminals it is $45, and experts predict that in the coming years the price of coal at transhipment terminals will be $36. Therefore, my question is: do we add these 7 billions to last another 3 years, or do we have a holistic vision of solving the problem? Because such actions are unfair primarily to Silesia and the whole industry. After all, if we combine, as I understand it, energy with mines, we add 7 billion and we achieve the result, then someone has to pay for it. And if anyone says the government, it's me, Minister, I recommend telling Mrs. Margaret Thatcher: the government doesn't have any money. If he says he's gonna pay $7 billion, and if he connects the mines to the power industry to balance it, you're gonna pay for it. And you have to be aware of that. 'Cause I'm gonna say, I'm really worried about this light approach. It takes 7 billion, it needs to be given to balance what is related to the financial result for today. And if we take this seriously and if we know what Senator Augustine was talking about here, that Silesia is today a great potential and industrial culture... So while we are talking about reindustrialisation of industry in Europe, let's look for new solutions, new perspectives. In this study, which I quoted here, it was stated that in order for Polish coal, Polish coal-based energy to be competitive, employment must fall by half by 2020. That's why we have to build... Money needs to be invested, including from the state budget, in the development of new technologies, in the strategy for Silesia, the location, industrial culture, people involved and their ability to work in industry, etc. These are important tasks that need to be carried out. To conclude, I'm gonna say this. Minister, just as the Minister defended himself against saying... using beautiful words related to the closure of mines... Whatever the reason why the Minister said that about 10 mines would have to be closed, and about 10 or 12 thousand people On his own request, whether he will have to leave the industry quickly as a result of the suggestion. I know this is difficult because in the election campaign you said that not one mine would be closed and that not one miner would leave. And that was... I will not say what it was, but you were wrong and it was unfair to other parts of Poland, but mainly towards Silesia. Minister, I like this proposal that we should also meet within the committee, but I would very much like to ask you to build a comprehensive element on the development and role of energy and mining in Poland. If the predecessors didn't do anything about it, as I said, they had a well-deserved reward. Adding only budget money or electricity charges to the entire system at all times will make it possible to patch holes for 3 years, and the problem will last longer, which is why I would like to appeal very warmly. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Hare, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As a mathematician, I have a problem here: what are we really talking about? Because in my opinion, we're not talking about carbon problems, we're talking about the problems of all those people who've been involved with coal so far, and the sociological problems of Silesia. Unfortunately, it's something else, something that we find very difficult to get through our throats. We have mining in Silesia, but we do not have coal in Silesia, coal available technologically and economically. Coal mined in Silesia generates extremely high costs, apart from these after-productions... The cost of mining 1 t of coal in Silesia is over 400 PLN. In some mines even more, while from Russia is imported by dozens of companies... I know that because I asked for a list... I was very surprised when I saw what companies bring in Russian coal, which is basically brown-stone coal. You can go to the point where they sell it, take it in your hand and see. This coal is supposed to be excavated unexplored at a price of PLN 250 per 1 t. Bogdanka is extracting coal at the worst place in the Lublin Basin, because the choice of this place was a political decision to build a mine there. It still costs money, even though it's already technologically handled there. That's where 150 zlotys of coal are mined. A few years ago, I was very involved. Along with Professor Kaliski, who worked at the Ministry and was from coal mining On the remaining part of the Lublin deposit. Thanks to the help of Prime Minister Pawlak, who won some gold for drilling a mine, we managed to gather documentation. And in one of the inaugural lectures it was stated that coal in the Chelm area can be mined at 100 PLN, because there is no chicken there, the layers are very well placed, will not be blunted due to the chalk layer from the top. Just mine three layers of coal. The rest can be forgotten. This means layers with a thickness of 3,10 m, 2,60 m and 2,40 m, evenly located. And that coal can be mined in the simplest way. But what is the reality in which we move here today, in this room? Well, it looks like there's an embargo on this coal deposit. They were made, prepared for the construction of the mine, which was initially named "Pavlov pod Rejowiec" because it was found that it would be best if the mine was built there. But, of course, deep problems also arise at once. Because mining and Silesia are synonymous with us. So how can coal be mined not in Silesia? But here I'm going back to what I said at the beginning: how can coal be mined there, since high-tech coal is available Is it one that would be in good layers, located not deeper than 1 thousand meters in Silesia practically does not exist? There are carbon problems in Silesia. And we're here discussing carbon issues, not carbon issues. I understand we can't move as fast as the West of Europe to use gas. Well, we've done a lot of bad things about it, too. Today, Sweden joins the construction of a new gas pipeline thread from Russia and probably the issue of this thread will go very quickly. And we'll stay with the coal for a while. It is only now necessary to say directly to ourselves whether we will be in social affairs Silesia, which I very much value, also because of what was said here, and thus the high industrial culture of the inhabitants, for a good infrastructure where industry can be developed... And that's why I would suggest that in Silesia we take care of the development of another industry. And since we're stuck with coal, for the money that was mentioned here, let's build two mines. Because resources of 3.5 billion or 4 billion zlotys will be enough to build one mine. And all it takes is cars. 'Cause the railroads are here. So we can get the coal trains out of there, one by one. And they're going to the power plant. Where are the power plants? Oh, yeah, not one on the right side of the Vistula, if we looked from the bottom, from Slovakia to the border with Russia. They're all focused on the left. And yet we want, as you can see from what I understand, to focus them even more. Just around what? There is a so-called sulphur and mining line, which was built in Gierek's time, which could be used as a coal for Silesia. But how does it sound to send coal to Silesia?! Well, you can't even talk about it. I'm sorry for a pinch of malice, but I think anyone who washes in cold water in the morning knows what we should do with carbon. I would very much like some action to be taken to make this a reality. I talk to people from Silesia, and I don't think Silesia will rebel, as it says: "No, we are building a mine under Rejowiec in Chełmszczyzna, because there we can extract a ton of coal four times cheaper than here in Silesia. There's only great fear that this will happen. It certainly won't be, because everyone today knows where we are and what financial difficulties are ahead of us. Everyone knows that you really need to calculate. This isn't the time when we have a big pile of money and who's gonna take more money and take it home... The previous system already did it, then it happened. Therefore, knowing very well the carbon problems, I even wrote a brochure, quite comprehensive, explaining these issues, giving the results of recent studies. A pinch of reality and economic thinking should be added to this. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. You will now speak, Senator Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u186	Just a few small speeches and, above all, a correction. My illustrious previous speaker Okay, I get it. It was very well presented in Lublin, but as a mining geologist, I would like to say one thing: geological construction in the Rejowiec region or Chełm region, which you are talking about, is the same as in other parts of the Załębie region. If it were really that profitable, the Australian company, which invested in the construction of the mine Jan Karski, in the Lublin Coal Basin, would certainly invest there, and used this data, the geological information we acquired in the past, and rightly, the previous era... On Silesian coal I would like to give only one information about the burden of coal in Poland with various taxes, parataxes which mining brings to the budget. This is about PLN 7.7.5 billion a year. Of course, you can give that up. Let's see what happens. I would like to draw attention to this: around 22,24 different types of taxes, parataxes, environmental charges, etc. There's so much to pay. It also affects the price of coal. In the two thousand years, if I remember correctly. The burden of tonnes of coal with taxes was about 35 PLN, after 10 years it was already ninety pair of zlotys; it was a certain account expressed in zlotys. I just wanted to point out some of the inaccuracies that have emerged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u187	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bear will speak now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! I'd like to refer to what Senator Hare said. Well, I agree with the senator that the problems we are discussing are not mining problems, they are just problems concerning what to do, how mining will be self-employed or self-exploited. As for the problems that Senator Hare referred to, I do not agree with the assessment of Silesia's view of these issues. For decades Silesia has been drained, and it is important to say to itself: Silesia and Zagłębie were drained. At a time when the changes took place, when it turned out that the economy and the market were ruthless in relation to those heavy industries that were already obsolete, social problems arose, social problems that were not even dreaming about people in Lublin, in Pomerania. I come from Bytomia, the city that suffered most from these changes, the city where there used to be 6 mines and 2 steelworks. Today there's not a single mine, not a single steelworks. This city, which in 1990 or the end of the 1980s had almost 250,000 inhabitants and today has 160,000 inhabitants. That means 90,000 people are gone. Most Polish county cities do not have 90,000 inhabitants. And these are the problems you have to deal with. Here is the interface between the economy, the economy and those social problems that need to be solved. I agree that pumping extra money is... I don't know if that's the right thing to do. I don't think it's very good. You might need to apply some other solutions, more systemic. I'm not a miner, I've never dealt with mining, even though I live in Silesia. It seems to me that throwing another billion zlotys is throwing money a little pointless, it just doesn't make any sense. So I would like to point out that what we are talking about is a very complicated process, very complicated, because it does not only concern some industry, but it concerns the social problems of this large region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer here to the words of Senator Hare, because he has so beautifully counted to us what the cost of coal mining is. What they're like right now, we all know, we can check it on the Internet. But for eight years of Mr. Pawlak's reign, Mr. Piechociński, you haven't seen those bills. We have increased mining to PLN 10 billion, and now we are struggling with this. And we need to get out of this. If we had left these companies with such debts, these companies would have just fallen. We have to do something about it. That's what the Germans have been doing since the 1960s, extorting their mining. In 2018 this mining will cease to exist. And let's not say it's so economical right now. Conjunctive is variable. In 2012, it would certainly be said from this tribune that this coal is not enough because coal prices have jumped to more than $120 per tonne. Right now, the price is $50. In 1999 it was $25 and mining somehow remained. I know, because I'm a miner, and in this industry, I come up with that problem in Silesia in 20 and 30 years, because it's gonna be a problem that's gonna be solved. But the point is that we do it civilizedly so that this industry simply doesn't drown the debts that remain in the sea right now. I can't imagine Silesia at the moment, in 2017 without mines, because there would be 85 thousand miners themselves thrown out of the labour market, and besides would be expelled people from companies around the hill. And this is also a huge crowd waiting for money. Slowly we will restructure these mines, these companies will be restructured. But let's not do it violently, let's follow the footsteps of Germany, the footsteps of France, where these mines have been put out in a civilized manner, but not from the point of view that the costs, etc., are simply due to the use of deposits. We still have a couple of mines that are forward-looking, and they're gonna defend themselves in this market. See: Bogdanka mine with a price of 150 PLN, see: some Silesian mines, such as Marcel and some others, with the cost of mining below 200 PLN or near 200 PLN and let this mining normally end its life in some civilized way. We will still be struggling with this problem, because it is not that in 2018 we will say that we leave mining to ourselves, because it may not survive, because the economic situation for raw materials varies, and we can see it in the world. The Americans closed the mines, the Chinese, the Australians... except there's cheaper coal mining and we can't compete with them. We still have coal-based power plants and let this power industry use our resources right now. And there's an appeal not to use such populist slogans. It's been eight years, it's been economical, and we could have done it a little more prudently. Because as I recall, in 2011 the problem of complex mines was already raised, and then it turned out that the lobby caused this project of complex mines to cease to exist and we have now... It's already being fixed right now, but it's been a little crazy about it. I bow to the Minister that he has taken up this subject and that his involvement is very high. I think we're gonna restructure this mining thing quietly, but I don't want any special expectations that mining is gonna make a profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Income of Local Government Units. The text of the Act is contained in print No 276, and the committee's report In print No 276 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arthur Warzocha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 20 September, a meeting was held between the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, which examined the Act amending the Act on the Income of Local Government Units. The bill is a government submission. Its aim is to extend the rules governing the correction and equalisation system for voivodships until the construction of a new system of compensatory transfers integrating a mechanism to compensate for disparities in the income of local government units and to diversify their expenditure needs; it is popularly called Janosik. In addition, the Act introduced provisions which define how the Minister of Finance communicates information on the amount of subsidies through electronic tools to the relevant local government units.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As well as determining the minimum amount of subsidy transferred between units, such a rule has not yet been in force and after the amendment of the Transfer Act they will only be able to take place if they are higher than the minimum national remuneration. The joint committee meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Hanna Majszczyk, who explained the comprehensive solution being prepared by the finance department at the moment. As we understand, it is about preparing a new law on the income of local government units. This draft law was widely consulted with representatives of local government and was accepted. The need to make these changes is linked to the loss at the end of this year of the existing provisions of the Act of 13 November 2003 on the income of local government units which govern the rules for establishing the payments of voivodships to the state budget and how the funds are allocated. If we had not made this amendment, the majority of voivodships could have been deprived of a significant part of their income, as there would have been no legal basis for both payments and subsidies. The voivodships would not receive regional subsidies in 2017 and in the following years, which would come from payments. The bill extends the corrective and equalisation mechanism for the next 3 years, i.e. for 2017, 2018 and 2019. During this time, the rules of the system, which in the case of voivodships were in force in 2016. At that time, as I said before, the government will prepare a comprehensive law that will regulate this issue. In the meantime, it will be conducted, as the Minister has assured us, an in-depth, detailed analysis of the allocation methods, the relocation of funds between local government units. Only on the basis of such a long run, because during these several years In addition, they have also been carried out prior to the analysis will be able to prepare a legal instrument so precise that the funds from this grant can be released in a fair manner. The idea is that none of the regions in Poland should be affected by the distribution of these funds. I think that's enough for now as far as the committee's report is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u193	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. There is a Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Hanna Majszczyk. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the draft amendment to the law on the income of local government units has been detailed in terms of the solutions presented by the rapporteur, I would like to add just a few words of addition. The important thing for the beneficiaries of this solution is that, as in 2014 and 2015... As the rapporteur has already pointed out, there will be an extension of these solutions. There are only two or three new elements that the senator also mentioned. It is the electronic transmission of information to improve contact with local authorities and how subsidies are distributed in situations where administrative changes are taking place in the boundaries of local authorities. Here there is a change determining the threshold from which such transfers of subsidies will be made. Today, in the case of changing these boundaries, we make such changes, moving the subsidy between units by even a few zlotys. In this solution, it is proposed that the minimum threshold for the transfer of subsidies which is made as a result of such administrative changes should be the minimum wage threshold. But with regard to the substance of the extension of the current solutions, I would like to emphasise that the solutions designed, as in 2014 and 2015, are so designed that no voivodship government would lose in relation to the revenues it would have received if the solutions operating in 2014 were still in force. And that's all I want to fill in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u195	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u196	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I have a question closely related to the contents of the bill. It's about a changed article. 70c, this is one of the episode articles in the mother's bill. Well, two paragraphs are added here. 2b and 2c... I mean, different ones, too, but it's these two paragraphs. They set the amounts of the special reserve created in the state budget for voivodships for voivodship roads. And now here's the mouth. 2b defines this reserve for 225 thousand, paragraph. 2c does not give an amount, but says what condition as to the amount of this reserve must be met. And in the existing paragraph in the law. 2 The reserve referred to in paragraph 2 shall be established. 1, the one we're talking about, is set at 268,000... come back, of course, millions, 268 million, all the amounts in millions. The question is, how much will this reserve actually be set at? Or lips. 2 is to be understood so that it was the original reserve set for 2015? If yes And here's the question. This will be illegible by the provision contained in the paragraph. 4 of this Article 1 is replaced by the following: 70c, specifically in item 6, where it is said how the amount is calculated for each voivodship. And so: the amount due to voivodship is calculated as the product of the share ratio, calculated as defined in point 5, and now note The amount referred to in paragraph 1 shall be deemed to be equivalent to the amount referred So we're referring rigidly to the amount of 268 million. And we should probably refer to the amount in each other's year, which, by the way, we're introducing into the bill's novel. Isn't that an oversight, Minister? Shouldn't the content be changed here, e.g. yes: and the amount referred to in paragraph 1 respectively.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u197	Mr Senator, the project in this area has been examined in legal terms and the rules that refer to how this reserve is to be set for the years after 2017 because in the case of 2017 this reserve amounts to 225 million and this is recorded in the draft budget. As regards the legal structure, there was no doubt that the amounts would be determined, as this new provision provides, every year, taking into account the current income situation, of course, the regional subsidy, the current level of income in individual units of local governments of voivodships. Because that is also the basic reason for how these subsequent amounts are shaped on this basis. Please pay attention, every year is this... The senator was polite to refer to the amount of 268 million, but already this year the amount that we are supplementing for the local governments is not the amount of 268 million, but the amount of 210 million. It's booked in the budget, and that's what we share. Because this is the amount of supplementing the level of income that would possibly lose the local governments of the voivodships as a result of this solution. In order to calculate it, each time you have to take into account the amounts that I mentioned, that is, how the amounts from year n-2 are shaped, for which we count these subsidies and subsidies. It is about how two years earlier average income per capita in a given voivodship has evolved and how they look with regard to average income. It is only in this respect that we report on the needs in terms of the shape of regional subsidies that the payer has to pay. It is known that it is mainly the Mazowieckie voivodship, but not only, because from time to time the Dolnośląskie voivodship falls into this threshold. The amount of the reserve shall be adjusted annually. Just like I said... In 2016, this amount is not 268 million, but 210 million. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u198	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u199	I will admit that the Minister did not reassure me, on the contrary, we went in the other direction when it came to the scale of emotion. Minister, that's what I was talking about. In the mother's bill... I also referred to changes that are being introduced into the novel we are talking about in this amendment. Well, let's do it again. Art. 70c. Paragraph 4 (6) shall be invoked if an appropriate amount is fixed for each of the voivodships that is eligible - up to one and all the time the same amount contained in the paragraph. 2, which is up to 268 million. You said it yourself, and it's right that this amount is different every year. You calculate for each of the voivodships a grant on the basis of one amount, because that is what the law tells you to do, namely the one which is contained in the paragraph. 2, whereas the amounts to be taken into account shall be included respectively in the preceding paragraph. 2a and in our mouths. 2b and 2c. There's just a mistake here. It's a mistake to send back. That's what I'm talking about, Minister. I don't know how you count it right now, based on what rules. Probably according to reason, but certainly not according to the law. And she's gonna count against what's being proposed here because... well, you can't count it. This is... this text just doesn't give us a choice. Again, there's a bad appeal here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u200	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u201	Thank you very much. I think, Mr. Senator, these appeals are fine. It's a pity that this issue wasn't raised at the committee meeting yesterday. The High House's legislator was with us at the time, and we were able to shake it up and think about it. Both the Seym and the Senate or the Government Legislation Centre did not see the disability of this provision. At this point, I can only say that, according to our best knowledge, this design is correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u202	Thank you very much. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. About three years ago, there was a draft legislative initiative committee to amend the Local Government Income Act. In such a description for this project it was written that in recent years the state, so to speak, plucked out the local governments of all levels of the communes, powiats and voivodships A total of about PLN 8 billion by changing the income structure and adding tasks without giving money to them. This legislative initiative committee was created by the Union of Rural Municipalities, the Union of Polish Districts, the Union of Polish Cities and the Union of Polish Cities. In this project, there was a proposal to change the income bill. I have a question. Do you agree with this amount? Did it look that way when it comes to the state's attitude towards local governments? That's one thing. Secondly, what is the stage of work on amending the Local Government Act and in what direction will this work possibly go? Because there was a talk, among other things, mainly about the increase in income tax and VAT... To help municipalities, powiats and voivodships, i.e. local government units, help, finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u204	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u205	Mr. Senator, the project is in the Sejm Sub-Committee, and during the work it was directed to the Sejm Sub-Committee. There is a position of the current government for this project. And in this position, the government does not share the arguments put forward in the citizens' project mentioned by the senator. Now, of course, maybe I won't recreate this whole position so hot, out of my head. But it is pointed out that the above-mentioned 8 billion PLN... that the presentation of these effects is kind of unilateral, without looking at what was happening, so to speak, on the other side of the account when it comes to adding various resources, including the direction of grants to local government units. We are also talking about the fact that local governments are not involved, which, at least in the old perspective, were the main beneficiaries of European funds... And we are, of course, benefiting from these measures because we are paying a contribution to the European Union, which is growing from year to year. Now, for next year, it will amount to PLN 19 billion. And there's also no such reference... There is a large number of reasons why the government did not share the position presented in the above-mentioned citizens' project. He also pointed out that certain calculations and appeals in this project were based on considerations that had changed a long time ago. Here I will also mention frozen amounts in PIT tax, which also increase the base to manage, among others, every year. to local governments... As I recall, when the first reading of this civil project was carried out, the representatives of the applicants also pointed out that, in fact, some assumptions certainly had to be looked at again a few years after the project came into being. That is why the project was aimed at further work on the committee, and the committee sent it to a special subcommittee, which was called upon to examine the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. There are no more requests for questioning. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law "Family and caring code" and the law "Civil Procedure Code." I would remind you that this project was introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. The draft is contained in print 187 and the committee's report In print No 187 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been authorized by two committees. Legal and Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to submit a report. To tell you about the outcome, you have to say what these two committees were working on. History is a little longer than normal, because it follows that the initiator of changes in the law in the family and caring code and in the code of civil proceedings was a citizen who petitioned, accusing the Polish legislation that there is discrimination against men. We're talking about legislation on the possibility of an individual marrying... by a male person over 16 years of age and under 18. As you know, the current regulations assume that, as a rule, marriage can only be concluded by persons aged 18 years. But the same law says that in situations, let's say, an exceptional woman, at more than 16 years old, and less than 18 years old, maybe with the consent of the family court... He can, of course, obtain consent in such a case when the welfare of the family is preserved. And here's the citizen, referring to international conventions, both the Council of Europe and the UN, as well as other laws and legislation relating to non-discrimination, claims whether or not it proves that the principle of inequality applies to men and women. Also, in his petition, he claims that if he becomes a father, it's his child. does not reach And that's contrary to the constitution. Full legal protection because it cannot be raised in marriage. First, the family committee... Excuse me, first the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions leaned on the proposed solution and I'm cheating here. It unanimously adopted the solution which was the subject of the petition. She considered that not only a woman fulfilling the condition of age between the ages of 16 and 18 but also a man, that is to say, could be referred to as a person of that age. They can marry, and they can marry, even if they don't meet the age requirement of 18 years. The work of the committee was accompanied by a rather intense and substantive discussion, both within the committee, as well as through participation in meetings and correspondence of such institutions as the first President of the Supreme Court. And he gave, I'm betraying it, a negative opinion, based on the need for a lasting marriage. This durability, as he argued, is a function of age and even legal guarantees, because it is necessary to obtain the consent of the court, because the court is subjected to pressure in the form of pregnancy or the birth of a child, in the form of an inaccurate assessment of psychomotor development, and there is also a statistic that proves that such marriages are less lasting. A negative opinion was also expressed by the government, based on similar observations, as well as by social curators who came from practice, but based on research by groups of people. Why do I say group? Because in Poland at all, these types of cases are appropriate to the situation in question. In other words, only a woman over 16 and less than 18 could marry a person at least 18 years old is only 150. Similarly, the Supreme Court relied in its research on a sample of several cases. A different opinion was represented by the Ombudsman who requested the project to be adopted. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has not taken a position. It was also important to collect documents that show that in Europe, no country in the legislation distinguishes between sexes when these compounds are concluded and, of course, applies lower age limits in exceptional cases. The exception is perhaps Austria, which assumes that, yes, you can marry, but one of the parents... one of the spouses. It may happen that parents too must reach the age of 18, the age of maturity. During the work of 2 committees and voting, this bill was rejected: 9 senators opposed the adoption of this law, 2 voted in favour, 3 abstained. And this is a proposal that I, as rapporteur, present to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? You're welcome. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: From the place or...]] Suit yourself. If it's okay, it's from the podium, and if you prefer from the place, it could be from the spot.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Briefly. As a representative of the Ministry of Justice I would like to support the recommendation of the joint committees to reject this project. In short, I will say that, of course, the principle of non-discrimination arises as a basis for this petition and today's submission. However, here this discrimination would be based on the fact that young men and young women are treated differently. In order to talk about this, reference should be made to concrete provisions, namely the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 4 November 1950, a very serious normative act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14 The principle of non-discrimination has indeed been enshrined also on grounds of sex, but it is not absolute. Its infringement is only justified if the different treatment is not objectively and reasonably justified, i.e. where the difference in treatment is not due to the need to protect the legitimate objective and the appropriate proportion between the measures applied and that objective has not been maintained. In the opinion of the Ministry of Justice here we have a justification for the different treatment of young men and young women. First of all, as already discussed by the rapporteur, the current solutions provide a greater guarantee of family welfare. There are tests. This was also the position of the National Council of Curators showing that marriages of very young age are the least lasting marriages. It's kind of a question of the negative effects of not surviving marriages, divorces. I think there is no need to dwell on the fact that this is clearly negative in this Chamber. Such a family that is rapidly decomposing is not something that brings any benefit to society. Therefore, it would be advisable to strive to maintain the principles of family sustainability, and to reduce the age when a young man can marry, up to the age of 16, characteristic of women, potentially causes those short-lived marriages to be more. This promotes too hasty marriage, and it is quite obvious, it is a quality of youth. And research shows that the rate of development of men and women is slightly different, and that cannot be denied. As a result, if a 16 - year - old may sometimes be mature for marriage, it will probably be less common for a man's peer to do so. And one last thing... maybe the penultimate. What's the scale? We're talking? High Izbo, when we look at the OSR, the impact assessment of regulation, we will see that the size of the target group, i.e. those teenagers, young men that could be regulated, is 406 thousand people, men 16 and 18 years old in 2015. It's the same for women. How many marriages were made in the case of 18 - year - old men? Because the younger, of course, cannot have marriages. 149 marriages. While teenage girls, 18 years old women, without any consent, for this is 18 years old, were married to one thousand 508 married couples, 17 years old, 241 years old, sixteen years old, 88 years old. So, if we're talking 149 male 18-year-olds, then if we could do the extrapolation... How many are we going to talk about 16? - or 17-year-old male? 20, 30, 40? This is the reference field for this regulation. We're dealing with something that's potentially going to arouse interest. Several dozens of people a year, and at the same time will have consequences that we recognise as clearly negative for society. And one last thing. The fact that all Europe or most of Europe, I dare say, is going astray, is not an argument for us to join the erring ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u210	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Me.]] Senator Czerwinski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u211	Mr Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, abstracting from these arguments of utilitarian nature, i.e. the fact that this concerns a small number of cases, and the question, as I call it, of European pressures, do you not think that the Minister's decisive argument should simply be the development difference between both sexes of this age, i.e. between a young girl 16 years of age and a young boy? Such glaishing of powers or obligations to both sexes, when these sexes are unequal by definition, because that's just how we were created, is actually unreasonable. The fact that the European Union commands this or any other requirement of international law... I think it's just secondary to nature. Shouldn't this argument be sufficient?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u212	I answer as briefly as possible: of course, this argument is sufficient. I gave the others to exhaust the whole topic, but it is a basic argument, because it justifies the current legal situation. Nothing has changed in this regard, it is not that suddenly the boys began to mature faster. Biology is biology, nature is nature. This argument is absolutely sufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u213	I don't see any more requests for questioning. Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to inform you that it is possible to ask the applicant's representative a question. I forgot to tell you. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Rulewski a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I make an authorial statement, in accordance with your agreement, I would still like to make a proposal as rapporteur to move on to the third reading at this Senate meeting. I was one of those two senators who voted in favour of this bill. I'm also signaling an amendment. But before I give my opinion on support for a petition with a modification, I would like the High House to hear my justification. The opponents of this solution actually relied on what I had already said, on marital maturity, assuming that a woman This is the case in the current legal system, which has the right, moreover, of an exceptional right, subject to review and decisions of courts, including curators It matures earlier, talks about the age of 15, 17 years old, and can perform functions, among others. Maternity. Research proves It's not just Polish. That in the case of boys this time is shifted by at least 2 years. And the opinions also emphasized the relationship of the matter with a certain morality, which, as if puts more attention on a man to material security in such a form that he is the basic unit that keeps the family up to now. If he could marry, of course this function would be reduced, and maybe it would be impossible to fulfil it, because this is happening during the period of education and the acquisition of not only the qualifications of life, not only this maturity, but also the maturity of human functions. There were, of course, arguments that historically, this border has traveled for 21 years probably in 1958, when such a requirement was made for a man, to the present 18 years. There was also talk of what the Minister said, that above all, the concepts contained in the Convention, which are not others, Minister, cannot be absoluteized. Here they have ratified a small correction, only which Poland has ratified and others, others in the plural, practically the whole world. Poland has also adopted a non-discrimination law, which has been cited here for the ruling of the Constitutional Court, neither can it be absolute and for example. The Constitutional Tribunal considered that gender differentiation was adopted in pension cases. It's okay to argue with that, but I wouldn't want to get into it so badly. Because when you talk about maturity at the age of 18 today, let's be honest with ourselves that then both girls and boys are sitting in school benches, or at least they should be sitting, because that's what PiS ordered, moving the age of education by one year, to the age of nineteen, if you want to get a degree or a certificate of maturity. That's what the PiS ordered. So that it's even for that reason that it's debatable. But if we continue to think about it, we might assume that even those marriages that are made at the age decided by various research institutions, or at the age of 25, as is now indicated The statistics indicate the age of 25 to 29 years. Nor are they mature, as shown by the number of divorces in these marriages, but also by the number of divorces of the same persons. This indicates that even after many years of marriage, these people, and from different wines, are divorced. Moreover, this trend is increasing. So the question is, where is this maturity? But of course it's just that, I'd say, an anecdote. I was guided by a different opinion. In fact, it is a legal opinion. It is true that I am not in favour of absoluteization of the law, but I am in favour of what this law creates in Poland. That's what the law says in the article. 72 constitutions that this state is a guarantee... that the state considers marriage as a priority, and at the same time says that alternatives to marriage, that is, marriage, informal marriages, concubines, are worse. In 25 marriage laws there are guarantees, while another marriage not only has no guarantee, but even creates a threat to the duration, and it is not only the marriage, but also the concubine relationship. Let's start with the tax issue. There's no idea of common settlement for... or inheritance law. It's not in the case of a concubine. They're moved by action movements, I'd say, for equality... well, women's movements and more, demands on the right to medical information. But that's not gonna... Yes, the father of a child, when he is 17, will get that right, although not so easily, but the concubine will not get it. Come on, burial... That's the way it is with everything we're talking about here. And it's a good thing that our law isn't just a painted law, but it's a law that creates legal guarantees for marriage, and it rules out the possibility of a three-way relationship, and that this marriage is protected, that only divorce can solve them. Although in church it's even this... And in the case of a concubine, and in the case of a child born in this concubine... Not only is this relationship not permanent, it's not permanent, but it's still the baby. And rightfully, the patent says so, especially since it is the child who is the main cause of marriage. There is no proper protection at that time. The father does not have the same rights if he wants to do so. As a minor who is not 18 years of age, she must perform with her parent in the exercise of her rights to that child who is born. There is also, of course, the question of the rights contained in the law on credit for young couples, about the MdMs. This only applies to families, only marriages. So for me, a normal state, although achieved in conditions, as Senator Czerwinski himself said... And I would agree, in part, on these terms, that it is a marriage with a big question mark as to its sustainability, its success. And yet it is under PiS that state guarantees are supposed to be greater. They're supposed to be bigger. It is true that once the boundaries in this area were shifted, but it is because the State did not interfere with such aid as today. After all, under the rule of the Platform the right for the born child was introduced 1 thousand PLN throughout the year. Now PiS has added 500 zlotys to this, for the sake of marital sustainability, for the sake of marriage and the welfare of the child. These trials have caused the claim that today the risk to marriages for poverty to increase is false. The legal situation indicates that this marriage receives greater guarantees in the country where the principles of social justice are applied. But I agree that I'm moving on to the amendment. It can't be that both marriage candidates aren't 18 years old. My amendment aims to allow a person, and therefore a woman, and a man, to marry on exceptional terms if they are over the age of 16 and have not yet turned 18, if one of them has turned 18. This will comply with the principle of non-discrimination, because everyone will be treated equally, and the risks will be avoided in terms of the lack of protection of this relationship, which may be concubine or, God forbid, none. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. We've exhausted the list of speakers. I would like to inform you that Senator Rulewski has submitted a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak: No.]] No. As a legislative proposal has been made, the Senate is sending the bill to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. [[Senator's voice: Did the senator file this motion at the beginning?]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] Senator Rulewski has requested that the committees set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. I'm declaring a recess by 11 o'clock tomorrow. [[Voice from the room: But messages.]] You'll read the Senator Secretary's messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u216	Communication: meeting of the Legislative Commission, joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of proposals submitted at second reading to the draft law amending the Law "Family and Caring Code" and the Act "Civilian Procedure Code" (Print No 187) will be held tomorrow at 10.00 in room 182. The second Communication: Meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee on Changes in the Senate Committees will take place on 22 September 2016 at 10 a.m. in room 179. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-21-senat-26-1.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I would also like to inform you that, as announced earlier tomorrow at 11.00, we will resume the session and consider item 6 of the agenda, the second reading of the draft resolution on support for citizens' initiatives to celebrate 100. Anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. Thank you very much. Have a good evening. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 38]]
