ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u1	I open the 23rd session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Senators, please. Oh, here they are, so I'm not asking. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its twenty-second meeting on 7 July 2016, adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 19th and the 20th Senate meetings in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the items 1, 2, 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these items have been submitted at a later date than set out in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that the Senators be removed from the agenda of item 10: information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2015 and the 11th: information on the results of the Central Anti-corruption Office's activities in 2015. If I don't hear any objection, I'll assume the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementive Industries and consider it as the fourth item of the agenda; amendment of the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and consider it as point five; the Act amending the Health Protection Act against the consequences of tobacco and tobacco products and consider it as point six; the Law amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system and the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and consider it as point seven; the Law amending the Rail Transport Act and certain other laws and consider it as an eleventh point; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Act amending the Sport Act; the Act amending the Sports Act; the Act amending the Act amending the Act; the Act amending the Act amending the Sport Act; the If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High Chamber has accepted the proposals. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No? Thank you. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that after considering point one, i.e. The Constitutional Court Act will be declared a break, after which we will proceed to the vote on the Constitutional Court Act. This break will last at least 2 hours, but it may be longer. Tomorrow's session will begin at 9.00 a.m. after the second agenda item, i.e. ratification of the Protocol to the NATO Treaty on Montenegro's accession. Immediately after consideration of this point, a vote will be held on this law and possibly on other laws that have been examined today. Furthermore, it is also possible to vote tomorrow evening, which I will of course inform you about. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I would like to inform you that if the Sejm adopted a resolution at its current meeting on the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, the agenda will be supplemented by a point: consent to the appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the National Polish People. Secret votes on this issue and the appointment of a member of the National Radio and Television Council are scheduled for Friday at 9 a.m. In addition, in the case of the preparation by the Senate committee of a report on the amendment of the Energy Law and certain other acts, the agenda will be supplemented by this item. The agenda may also be supplemented by other laws adopted at the current meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 242 and the committee report In print No 242 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions recommend that the High Senate adopt the Constitutional Court Act with amendments. At the same time, I note that there are 2 minority proposals with separate amendments. I would now like to briefly refer to the content of the bill and the content of the amendments which I am the author of with Senator Gogacz. The Constitutional Tribunal Act, in the version considered by the High Senate, is back to the 1997 Constitutional Court Act, but substantial changes have been made to it. And I'd like to focus on these changes right now. There is a provision here which states that a judge, after taking his oath, is placed at the Court for the purpose of taking his duties and that the President of the Court assigns him cases and creates conditions for the performance of his duties as judge. It also contains a provision which states that the expiry of the mandate as a result of a final disciplinary decision shall be subject to the approval of the President of the Republic. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] The President and the Vice-President of the Court shall be appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland from at least three candidates submitted for each position by the General Assembly. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Court shall rule in full court, in the composition of 5 Judges and in the composition of 3 Judges. Full lineup, i.e. at least 11 Judges shall rule on the matters referred to in Article. 26... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I might ask your marshal to appeal... [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet, because the talks are disturbing the rapporteur. You're welcome.]] In full composition, the Court shall rule on matters of competence between the central institutions, the constitutional authorities of the State; on the determination of the obstacle to the exercise of office by the President of the Republic and to entrust the Speaker of the Sejm with the temporary performance of the duties of the President of the Republic; on compliance with the constitution of the objectives or activities of political parties; on the application of the President of the Republic to declare the law compatible with the Constitution before its signature or conformity with the Constitution before its ratification; on compliance with the Constitution of the Constitutional Tribunal; on the initiative of the President of the Court, on the basis of particular incomplicity, on the initiative of the President of the Court, and on the application for the recognition of the case as particularly incriminal, the formation of the formation designated for the purpose of the examination of the matter, or in cases in which the particular incompliccy relates to the financial charges not provided for in the Budget Act, and in particular where the formation of the Court intends to depart from the legal opinion given in its full composition. These are enumeratively calculated cases to be dealt with in the full composition of a minimum of 11 judges, we see that these are the cases of the greatest importance. In addition, the Court shall rule in full on a case in which three judges of the Court of Justice, within 14 days of their receipt of copies of constitutional complaints, as well as copies of applications and legal questions, make an appropriate request in that case. The Judges to the formation of the Court of First Instance, including the Chair and the Judge-Rapporteur, shall be appointed by the President of the Court from among all Judges of the Court in alphabetical order, taking into account the types, number and order of influence of the cases before the Court. The time limits at which applications are examined shall be determined in the order in which the cases are referred to the Court. The Court shall, in its ruling, be bound by the limits of a proposal, a legal question or a complaint. The Court shall deliver a judgment after a secret hearing of the Judges of the Tribunal. During a full meeting, at least four judges may object to the proposed decision if they consider that the matter is particularly important for reasons of political or public order and do not agree with the direction of the decision. In the event of the opposition being lodged, the hearing shall be adjourned by 3 months and the Judges who have lodged the opposition shall present a joint proposal for a settlement at the next hearing convened after that date. If, in the course of the re-meeting, at least four Judges re-apply, the hearing shall be postponed for a further three months. At the end of that period, a further meeting and a vote shall be held. The decision shall be delivered by a simple majority. The President of the Court shall address a request for the publication of judgments and orders to the President of the Council of Ministers. The notice shall take place in accordance with the principles and procedures laid down in the Constitution and in the Law of 20 July 2000 on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts. In cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this Law, the provisions of this Law shall apply. The Court shall be required to settle the cases in question within one year of the date of entry into force of the law. The decisions of the Court in breach of the Law of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Tribunal in the period from 10 March 2016 to 30 June 2016 shall be published in the relevant Official Journal within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Act. The Judges of the Court who have taken their oath to the President of the Republic of Poland and have not taken the duties of Judge before the date of entry into force of this Act shall, on the date of its entry into force, include the President of the Court in the formations of the Tribunal and assign them cases. These are, at my discretion, the most important amendments to the 1997 Act. It is appropriate to point them out so that we have a full picture of the content of the bill we are currently debating. Let me now, Mrs Marshal, refer to the amendments that have been tabled to this law by me and by Senator Gogach, and then the minority rapporteurs will submit the amendments that they themselves have tabled. The most important amendments I would like to propose are that in Article. 12 paragraph shall be deleted. 2, which provides for the President's consent to the expiry of the Judge's term of office under disciplinary order. The justification is that these President's decisions would result in a conflict between executive and judicial authority. We also propose that there should be no mention of at least 3 candidates in the provision concerning the notification of candidates to the President of the Court, but only the entry of 3 candidates. We also propose to remove the restriction on the involvement of the Ombudsman in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. So far, it says in the bill that this participation concerns a constitutional complaint. We propose in the amendment to delete the words 'on constitutional complaint'. In this way, the Ombudsman would be involved in any proceedings. We also propose that the President of the Court may set a time limit for the hearing without the requirement laid down in the Act, i.e. in order, so that he can determine the case outside the order where this is justified by the protection of the freedom or rights of the citizen, the security of the state or the constitutional order. In the next amendment, we propose that when deciding on the compatibility of a normative act or a ratified international agreement with the Constitution, the Court examines both the content of such an act or agreement and the competence and observance of the procedure required by the provisions of the right to issue an act or to conclude and ratify an agreement. It makes sense to supplement the criteria according to which the Court will rule on the constitutionality of a normative act or an international agreement. And finally, I'm talking about these major amendments. We propose the following wording of the provision relating to the deadline for announcing earlier decisions. The purpose of this provision is to read as follows: "Within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the Act, the Court's decisions issued before 20 July 2016 in breach of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June 2015 shall be published, except for decisions concerning normative acts which have expired in force.' In addition, the amendments in total are 26 and the other amendments are editorial or systemic, i.e. they have consequences in the form of deletion or redrafting of other provisions which involve amendments to change the substance of the previous provisions. Mrs Marshal, High Senate, that is what I would like to limit my report to. If there are any questions, I'll try to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the committee, but also of the Senators of the Civic Platform, I have actually made 2 applications, with Mrs Grażyna Sztark, a motion to reject the law and minority requests in connection with the amendments that have been rejected. Let me say that I have argued comprehensively these 2 issues, these 2 minority proposals, because they are closely linked. First of all, I would stress that we strongly believe that this law should not exist in the order of a democratic rule of law at all. This bill is not just against the law. Ladies and gentlemen, And I would like to say that this was mentioned during the parliamentary debates, said President Rzepliński, but it is also spoken of by prominent legal philosophers, a law that violates the fundamental principles of the democratic state, cannot be called the law, can not be called the law. It is the philosophers who say that the law of this kind, as I said, does not have the character of the law. That is also what prominent constitutionalists are talking about. Why is that? Ladies and gentlemen, because there is a law in bad faith, there is a law, a law that I have just said. It's not fair to call it a law, a law that, in bad faith... Why in bad faith? Because you know in advance... Acting in the wrong faith is that someone, the perpetrator, acts and knows in advance that this action is unconstitutional. This is the legislator we're talking about. The Court has already expressed its views on constitutionality on a number of issues. This is the first case. And two. The Venice Commission also spoke on these issues. The Venice Commission has made clear what European standards, in accordance with human rights, can be applied in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. I made it clear that there is absolutely an absolute order, resulting from the basic law. That's what all constitutionalists are talking about. The fundamental law, the constitution, the queen of the laws, is a corset that restricts the legislator. This corset, of course, is tight, but this corset was imposed, imposed by a sovereign who adopted the constitution in a general referendum. He can't be dropped without the sovereign's consent, which means he can't change the constitution. Unfortunately, he's a pain in the ass, but he's supposed to be a pain in the ass because the legislator doesn't have absolute freedom. And that's what it's about. Ladies and gentlemen, the Venice Commission has clearly and repeatedly said that there must be respect for the judgments of the Constitutional Court, which the Court is entitled to review the laws, including those relating to it. Clearly and repeatedly, the Venice Commission has said so. The Commission considers that the European standard is to participate the members of the Court in the creation of such a right and the use of experience... This is standard, ladies and gentlemen. And that's not a charge. That, too, is what the Venice Commission is talking about. There is no way that executive authority can censor the Court and determine what is and what is not a judgment. To submit any requests to the executive authority so that this generously consents to the publication of a ruling... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is completely absurd, some completely different legal system. For the time being, we are moving in the 1997 Constitution system and, taking this constitution into account, the Venice Commission is clearly expressing itself. The Commission is also talking about the President's acceptance of... that is, the need to respect the choice of these three so-called. Judges of October. This is something that the Venice Commission has made clear and often. These 3 judges are elected in accordance with the rules of law and have the advantage of being full judges. This law eliminates them and introduces three judges who have been elected in their place during their term of office. They've been chosen to take their seats, I stress: they're busy. The Sejm, choosing these 3 judges, so to speak, later in December, did not indicate when their term of office began, and then the term of office of those 3 judges who were elected by the Sejm of the VII term of office was already in effect. And that's what the Venice Commission is talking about. This bill wants these judges eliminated. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a manifest violation... Therefore, it is absolutely impossible to accept this law, as we speak loudly and clearly. Besides, I want to emphasize... I won't discuss every amendment. I quote the opinion, with which I absolutely agree, from the yellow pages of the Legal Newspaper. So not from the election or any other... There, lawyers from different sides speak, also members of this famous committee, whose work has no effect, and has just been appointed to draft a bill on the Court. On these pages, these gentlemen also speak, and therefore this one-sided newspaper cannot be blamed. Constitutionalist from the University of Warsaw, prof. dr hab. Jacek Zaleśny in response to the question whether the amendments proposed by the senators eliminate all or at least the most serious doubts about the constitutionality of the law adopted by the Sejm on 7 July and whether it notes any provisions that should be improved, corresponds to: the substance of the dispute concerning the Court's system is not so much the individual rules incompatible with the Constitution, but the rules which are examined separately from others are not mostly non-constitutional, but treated together take on such characteristics. I repeat: treated together. They are to prevent the current constitutional control of laws and allow the Sejm to implement the principle that the law is what the Sejm considers to be the law. Whether or not his will is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland approved by the people in a referendum on 25 May 1997 or contrary to it. I am absolutely identified with the opinion cited here. On these pages, too, other professors compare the bill discussed here to a baseball bat that demolishes. This isn't some kind of journalistic joke. We're talking about lawyers who compare it to something like this... as the legislator calls it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of the fact that this bill is actually a clone of the 1997 Act, that this is the basis and there are actually no many changes that it should be adopted... Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's a small matter. Let me give you just one example, as we will deal with all of this in detail in the discussion. Let me give you an example of the election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. There are two candidates mentioned in that bill and they are valid... There is no vote in that law. There are rules that allow you to cast as many votes as there are candidates. That's two. In this connection, the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal can actually eliminate and actually choose, point to the President's support of those who have... confidence in this position... Same for the vice president. Meanwhile, here... They say it's the same bill. Meanwhile, there are three candidates and there is a provision that allows the judge to cast one vote. And I want three candidates. So what is the situation that arises in connection with all of this? That there may be one person in the three of them who will come forward alone, with one voice, and it will be, so to speak, presented without the possibility of elimination, without the possibility of choice. I said, is this even a choice? Such a person will be presented with one voice and the President will be able to identify such a person as the President. Well, it's all the same, it's just a little different, right? This is, ladies and gentlemen, just an example. Therefore, this system that blocks, blocks and slows down... This is just an increase in the full lineup to 11 people. There are no studies suggesting that when there are 11 people, this is a better level than when there are 9. But 11 judges are involved. He's practically out of A's. Next: I understand that they are listed, enumeratively, situations where a full assembly... But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a doorway that a request that the case, because of its complexity, be recognized by a full court, may be made by judges who... and it is the judges who will not be dealing with the case at all, because they will not be on the squad. Not one of them has to be on the squad. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the designated five-man squad thinks he can handle it. And all the cases are complicated, complicated, and the other judges, not on the bench, will recognize that the case should be recognised in full. So that the Court's work is completely disorganized, it extends... But it's not over. Come on, the question of negotiation... Three months later, three months later, only 30 days later, the Venice Commission clearly states that both the issue of chronology and the speed of conduct is a standard of democratic rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. The European Convention on Human Rights confirms this by the Venice Commission. Well, here we are actually dealing with paralysis. And such, ladies and gentlemen, there is more history. We are making amendments, but this law is actually not to be improved, it should be rewritten according to the guidelines of the Venice Commission and according to the universal doctrine of constitutionalists, so that it is efficient... of course also with participation, at least consultative, experienced, if not up-to-date, at least ex-Presidents or judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Jan Rulewski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the Parliamentary Club, I tabled amendments which were subsequently supported by other senators and obtained the status of minority application. This may surprise you, but I stress: the Civic Platform is more than a party, it is also citizens who accompany in its efforts to change Poland to a better one. I would be one of those, and for the reason that the Platform has its influences beyond just what concerns the members of the party, and I considered it appropriate to amend the bill that the High House is working on today. The construction of this minority proposal is quite simple because it concerns transitional provisions, i.e. it does not violate the rules of the constitutional state in which a strict and precise role has been set out for the Constitutional Tribunal. The construction of this proposal boils down to the fact that Article is deleted from the current provision of this law. 91 and 92 as it stands. Art. 91 speaks of it... or, in fact, returns to the old and proven formula of announcing the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is immediately, but makes an exception that this principle should not be applied to the judgment of 9 March. And art. 92 commands the President to include the judges referred to earlier in the Constitutional Court, i.e. those who were nominated by Parliament in December, in the judges' seat. Both articles do not concern errors or incorrect wordings or listening to opinions of other centres, but are biased. These articles are intended to safeguard the interests of only one political group. And if we add that art. 91 excludes the final decisions of the Sejm, not the political group anymore, but the Sejm of the previous term of office, which means that this bias is in the form of power. So what is the essence of my minority proposal? It is not only that these two articles should be excluded, but, above all, that constitutionality should be restored to the provisions of this law and that decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal should be printed without undue delay and without any exceptions. And I am consistently proposing a solution to reconcile... a solution to the current conflict. Sense of art. 92 would therefore be based on the recognition of the validity of the decision of the Parliament of the previous term of office and the current term of office, i.e. the validity of the election of 3 judges of the Court in the previous term and 3 judges of the current term of office, while, of course, maintaining the constitutional principle of 15 judges. It is possible to reconcile and the proposed amendment provides for such a solution that judges will be involved alternately, except as from 8 March and in alphabetical order, as they resign from the Court of Justice as the current Judges are present at the end of their term of office. Of course, the assumption is that the President will take the oath of three judges, and the President of the Court will allow the remaining three judges who are presently in the Court, but who do not have judicial functions. Ladies and gentlemen, I know this is not a new proposal. She's already been reported, among others. By the Modern Club. It goes around in public... The question is, what kind of figure is this? Whether it's a compromise or something. I would say this: this is something that rarely occurs in Polish reality. This is a compromise with consensus. The compromise would be that the parties would be ready to talk about it, to correct the error, and the consensus to construct the bill so that neither party would feel that they had given up on something. I have experience in reaching compromises, less consensus, and I don't think anyone's questioning that. The consensus and compromise are spoken in Poland in such a language as if it were a suspicious case. And yet this is the essence of democracy, at least that's what the societies of countries think to the west and south of Poland. Meanwhile, we are talking about a rotten compromise. Such opinions were circulating on the March compromise, in which accidentally I didn't take part of it of my own free will. There is talk of a compromise that is dubious, rejected by those whose delegations participated in the conclusion of... And they're talking about an orphan compromise that, yes, has been made, but no one accepts it. Finally, there is talk of a betrayed compromise that has been made secretly, incomprehensible. There is no doubt about the word "consensus" It's just an agreement. The question is whether this proposal contains these elements. It is undoubtedly a consensus, because... compromise can't be about the things that undermine it. The rotten compromise is discussed when the parties abandoned the moral values they presented and adopted the solutions in the name of the settlement. The compromise is also discussed when the parties are willing to give up or resign their positions, they are making concessions to the positions they have previously proposed, generally before negotiations, because negotiations, however, I say, end these positions. What would be the consensus on this law in the design of a minority proposal? First of all, he's just rejecting the compromise of the law. There can be no compromise on the formula of action as regards the constitutional formula of the Constitutional Tribunal. There can be no compromise in this respect. So there must be 15 judges, they must have a delegation, a parliamentary mandate, their vows must be taken by the President, and the rulings of this Court must be published without exception. Who's gonna lose on this? Nobody. We cannot question what the Sejm of the previous term of office has undertaken. The president didn't refuse to take the vow, but this vow didn't happen, so he doesn't have to change his mind. The state side, the PiS side does not have to give up anything unless its intentions are different from that shown at least in the law and in recent research. So the delegations on support for the 3 parliamentarians of the new term of office will be preserved... [[Three judges.]] ...and they don't give up on anything. The question remains how to put this structure together, since the period of exchange of previously elected judges will, however, last several years. And here you can really say that someone is going to suffer losses. Yeah, that's the guy. We often forget in our laws and actions that a specific person is behind this. On the one hand there is e.g. The President of the Supreme Court, elected in a spirit of consensus, is highly respected and applauded here. Hello these people will be preserved, they will not have to see the confusion that flows from different sides of the political scene. And the fact that they're gonna quit... Someone's gonna say, "What's the deal?" If, in the name of the welfare of the state, in the interests of the nation, is consent, but in the interest of breaking the law? The one from the president, the lawyers. We choose experienced people to be judges. We can't demand it. And there can't be any compromise here either. We will therefore retain the dignity of those who have been given the mandate of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by the High Houses. And that's the advantage. So much for construction. However, it is necessary to add a little bit about why my mandate, the mandate of citizens. There is no denying that war has started in Poland around the Constitutional Tribunal. And it lasts a long time. This bill, which contains elements of the change... I'll tell you more: there's a confession of the government's majority to mistakes and giving up certain records, those draconian ones, to say, records... Well, you can say more: mathematically you can't even embrace them, e.g. When we say that out of 13 judges, it's supposed to be 2/3. Okay, well, maybe it can be written down and written down, but we're forgetting that physically someone can... because they can get sick, they can go away, and maybe... So you can't do that. I'm no longer talking about this caricature record that this president is supposed to be an employee of the bhp, and he's supposed to give this new... biasedly written desk, braces and a pen. And for God's sake, if the President of the Court doesn't give him a desk, then that judge will have to stand up and he won't be able to do his job. Well, ladies and gentlemen... This law does not solve the basic problem, the problem from which everything started and which is supposed to be the cornerstone of this dispute, so it does not solve the problem, so to speak, 3 and 3, two threes. Political parties to the dispute have requested the assistance of the Venice Commission. We all agreed to that. Although there was groaning on the one hand, we finally agreed to audit the Venice Commission. There has been a lot of work and a lot of money has been spent on this, including perhaps our money, taxpayers. But does this bill consume the findings of the Venice Commission? No, in this case, in these two articles, it contradicts those exact recommendations. In the conclusion of the Venetian Commission's protocol, in Rule 137, the Venice Commission states: "It is necessary to find a solution to the current conflict around the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal resulting from the actions of the previous Sejm. The Venice Commission calls on both the parliamentary majority and the opposition to do their utmost: what they can To find a solution to this situation. In a state based on governments, such a solution must be based on an obligation to respect and fully enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Venice Commission therefore calls on all authorities of the State, in particular the Sejm, to fully respect and enforce the judgments of the Court. Yes, all of them, especially the Sejm. Delicacy, ladies and gentlemen, is not the president here as head of state. I think so, because he was also involved in this dispute. But before that, the Commission writes that And that is also the essence of the consensus on this issue. It does not impose a task on the President, it merely talks about his functioning in a democratic state as an entity harmonising the matter, not abusing his power to decree composition... [[Mr. Senator, you've got two more minutes.]] Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, High Seym... [[The senate.]] ...the worst thing is that we're dealing with a war that creates a dualism of power. Legal authorities and local authorities are in favour of one or the other solution. Most of them are still silent. But this isn't just a dispute about someone declaring some kind of secession, and he thinks he's the only one in charge of this community or this voivodeship. This is a dispute that runs across the state, a dispute about fundamental values, how to treat the constitution. As a result, today there are only legislators... But among people, environments, corporate choices are already held according to a certain option. Finally, it's a matter of public opinion. Well, you can, like some fresh Poles, say: what do we care about Obama, the European Commission or the Venice Commission?! Indeed, it can be assumed that we have managed without them, on the basis of uprisings, we can cope now. The question is: what to do with the millions of Poles who live under the power of the European Commission and in the United States and Rome? We have to face the fact that the odium associated with the wrong opinion will fall on our compatriots living there. Poland, yes, Mr. Senator. You don't remember that when President Obama didn't, I'm not his voter. A few years ago, he came to Poland on an exception basis to commend us, and we were all proud of the fact that this is the president with a lot of world problems. Japan, Asia, China, Africa, terrorists come to Poland, devotes time and spends money to commend us. Today he comes to Poland with comments. How does an American who wants to enter into contracts in Poland react? [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Who's he supposed to listen to? Mr. Senator or your president? [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] If you're so strong, go ahead. But they're just proving to you that you don't have that kind of strength. You've already bowed down to one visit from the Venice Commission, and glory for that. But it's not that... Now, Mrs. Marshal... ...to remind each other now, only to realize what the Venice Commission calls for, not only, but also the public, who wants to live in peace and develop. The point is to conclude consensus on this, and this amendment proposes that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You were the first to sign up for Senator Barbara Boris-Damian. Senator, you're welcome. Which of the senators of the rapporteurs is your question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u8	I'm asking questions to the professor. Mrs. Marshal, I have four questions. I'd like to ask them right away so I don't separate them into different ones. I'll tell you what. - Time limits. - Okay. [[Then please, Senator, ask them so we can get together in one minute...]] I'll try to fit in a minute with these questions. [[You're welcome.]] My first question is: what is the purpose of the provision in the present law that a properly notified attorney general may, without any justification, not come to a hearing where his presence is mandatory? In such a situation, the trial will have to be postponed. What's that supposed to do? What's that supposed to do in the bill? That was the first question. Second question: what about Marshal Kuchciński's committee? Does she even work and work? When will there be any message in force resulting from this work? The third question: to what extent, if any, the legislators took into account the position of the Legal Expert Group operating at the Foundation. Stefan Batori or the opinions of the Supreme Court, or the Helsinki Committee, or the Ombudsman, or the Supreme Bar Council, the National Judicial Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels? In what specific articles of the position and statements, e.g. These institutions, because I didn't list them all, were they included? Have they even been taken into account? And last question: why isn't the exchange of positions between the government, the Prime Minister, and the European Union published? Of course, it is the European Commission's position on the Constitutional Tribunal and the answer given by the Polish Government; this has not been made publicly available. Doesn't public information have the right to know what the last arguments used by the European Commission were, and what did the Prime Minister, the government, respond to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u9	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u10	I hope I remember all the questions, and if I don't, I'll ask you to repeat it. Mrs. Senator, what are the rules on the prosecution's involvement in the trial? I think we all know. It's about regulating his participation in the trial. And how should these rules be interpreted? First of all, the committee did not do this and neither did I. It's a matter of designer intent, it's not part of my explanation. As for... there was also a question about whether we took into account the opinions that the senator mentioned. All the opinions that were attached to the Senate's printing were made available to all the members of the committee, one committee and the other, all the senators were able to get acquainted with them. Moreover, representatives of some of these institutions took part in the committee's meeting, spoke at the committee's meeting, so everyone could decide, according to his own discretion, whether these opinions affect, and if so, to what extent, how he votes on the bill. As for the announcement of the committee's opinion at the Marshal of the Sejm... Our committee didn't do that. I cannot say anything about the activities of this opinion group. About the last question... I believe the senator asked for the answer of the Prime Minister... [[About the exchange of opinions...]] The exchange of views between the Commission and the President... This was not the subject of our committee either. [[Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Can I ad vocem?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u11	Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u12	I will ask you to answer these questions, which the professor has not answered me, the representative of the government. Because I understand he's gonna talk about it. I understand that the committee did not deal with this and did not ask, as the professor has said, such questions to the legislators. Nevertheless, to make a decision and accept the proposed bill... These questions themselves are pressing on the lips and the answer as such is important and important. So, please write me down for questions to the legislator's representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u13	Good. I'm sure the government representative will answer these questions. Now, I ask you to ask Senator Richard Majer's question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u14	This will be a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur, Senator Rulewski. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I have listened attentively to your proposal regarding this construction, compromise, consensus; in fact, it is a very interesting figure in the system. But tell me, Mr. Senator. Because you introduced yourself as a representative of a party loved in a democratic system, in democratic values Did you believe that what happened last year when the Sejm and the Senate of the previous term of office chose three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as a reserve, which caused the crisis in the Constitutional Court, was correct? Can you, Mr. Senator, make it clear that yes, the choice for the three judges of the Court was correct?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u15	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u16	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Senator, thank you for listening attentively, because this is an important element of dialogue and building compromise or consensus. I presented the position, I would say, not the party, because I'm not part of the party, but I'm not... I'm a citizen of the Civic Platform, except I'm not a painted citizen, but I'm a real citizen. As a matter of fact, my position on this matter is that we should no longer discuss the compacted milk. I think we're getting paid plus a diet to solve the problem. The current position was revised at the request of the Civic Platform by the Constitutional Tribunal, partly rejected, so it was opposite, I would say, the PiS environment, only that the PiS But I'm going to let you judge me. He didn't take advantage of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal that would benefit him and went further, step or mouth of the crocodile: he wanted not only a change concerning the two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, he wanted to devour the entire Court. And that's where the ambaras come from. But I repeat: the battered milk will no longer return to its natural state and we all need to drink it, especially the politicians for whom this House is a tool or part of the work. And we should sort this out. And it's all clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Florek signed up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u18	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for you, Senator Sewerinski. In fact, I could address this question to the rapporteur, as I do not see the rapporteur in the Chamber, the first two questions may be... And I'll have a few. I mean, pending cases to be dealt with again, regardless of the state of progress. Did you discuss at the committee's meeting how many of these cases are underway, about the queue that is, and the consideration in order, and how much time will it look like it's gonna be? If we add the cases that will be dealt with again so far, how will this affect the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal when it comes to time? That's the first question. Second question. The President shall appoint the President and Vice-President from at least three candidates submitted to the General Assembly. You mentioned in the report that you had tabled an amendment that you did not say that of at least 3 candidates, but of 3 candidates. Well, before that, there was a number of two. I have a question in this situation as to whether there is such a concern that there may be a situation in which the first candidate will be given an adequate number of votes, the second also a suitable one, and the third candidate will submit himself to the President or vice-president of the Constitutional Tribunal and will receive one vote, and will be one of these three candidates, and it will have to be presented to the President to choose such a person as well. Can you not see that such a narrowing... There are at least 3 candidates in the Act because the fact that there are amendments does not mean that they will be voted by the High Senate, it has happened many times that even your amendments you have tabled have not been voted out. So I have two questions to start with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u19	As for the first question, Senator, the committee did not deal so much with the number of pending cases, there were no such questions, there were no such findings. As regards the issue of 3 candidates, applicants seemed to be better off with a provision which, instead of saying If there are 3 candidates, the choice is greater than when there are less than 3 candidates. The senator expresses his concern about whether it's a good idea to have three candidates, and whether there will be mathematical problems with counting. To be honest, I'm pretty bad at counting, but I have such confidence that there will be no stalemate and that there will always be a solution, and that out of three candidates one can be identified. So all I can say is that my state of mind and my concerns are more optimistic than the state of spirit and the senator's concerns about whether it's a good solution or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u20	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u21	Mr President, Mr Senator, I would like to ask a question similar to that of Senator Florek, because he has only partially received an answer to the question concerning pending cases. Firstly, as you referred to the text of the amendment, I understood that the principle is to deal with cases in the order of impact, and only there may be exceptions which the President of the Court will decide in particular circumstances. Yes? [[With this amendment?]] With this amendment. With this amendment. Anyway, that's how I understood it. If that's the case, I'd like to ask you about the article. 85, 86, 87, 88 on pending cases. Namely, since the deadline, which is important for determining the order of consideration, is actually valid when applications submitted previously have to be, in accordance with the Article. 85, reassembled? If a time limit has already been set for the hearing, the time limit for the hearing shall be renewed and the hearing shall take place in accordance with the provisions of this Act. So what's the deadline? And if, before the entry into force of this Act, a time limit has been set for public publication of the judgment, that judgment shall be postponed, because the formation of the court and the requirements must be adapted to the new law. Which deadline will count? Finally, cases addressed to preliminary examination shall be dealt with on the basis of the provisions of this Law after preliminary examination. Once again, this procedure needs to be repeated according to the new rules. Which term will be valid in this queue? Old or new?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u22	Mr. Senator, certain matters under the law are not dealt with in the order of influence. Art. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 states that the order of impact of the proposal does not apply to cases which I have read, which are enumeratively calculated, also at the request of 3 judges, this case can be omitted. The amendment, which I tabled with Senator Gogacz, shows that in matters relating to citizens' rights, freedom of citizens, the security of the State, the President of the Court will also be able to circumvent this principle of order of influence and decide at his discretion. Mr. Senator has asked many such very curious questions about timing, timing. This is the responsibility of the President of the Court. He's gonna have to deal with it. I could answer briefly that the committee did not deal with such specific matters, and what I would say now would be my own interpretation. But it is not the responsibility or authority of the rapporteur to present here his own interpretations of the bill, so I will refrain from it. I do not want to underestimate the possible difficulties that may arise in this context when the President of the Court sets these deadlines, but this is his competence and the way in which he will benefit from the law will depend on him. I think I've already answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Another question to ask is Senator Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have one slightly expanded question for Senator Sewerinski, and then I will have a question for Senator Rulewski. Mr Senator, in general, the Act of last year, from 2015, was mainly intended to clear the Constitutional Tribunal Act from many internal contradictions or to adapt it to the practice that was created. for many, many years. Because some shortcomings had to be interpreted. For political reasons, this law was first amended, and now we are dealing back to 1997 with certain political raids. And now you're gonna let the senator know that I'm gonna use some sort of lock-in for the senator, identical to what your colleagues used for me, and that's what they were talking to me when I was standing where the senator was, not only as a senator for the rapporteur, but also as a lawyer. Mr Senator, there are a few things in this bill that are absolutely absurd, and they have been since the beginning, it is not an invention of Members at the moment, Members who have given us this presentation, but it is simply a matter of fact. These aren't controversial matters, and they should stay. Let's look at it as a lawyer. It's been cleaned. An example is if the senator could take a look. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 28 points 9 and 10 and the same problem is in Article. 53 (1). Point 9, is the same in Article. 53, provides that the ombudsman is to take part in the proceedings, provided that he submits his participation, as long as he does not initiate, as long as he submits his participation in the proceedings concerning the case in question, here the cassation complaint, and in Article. 53 at all. Now look at point 10. The Ombudsman is also a participant if he submits his participation in proceedings initiated at the request of the Ombudsman. It's a nightmare and legal nonsense we could clean up. In the same spirit, I would like to draw the attention of the senator and all his colleagues, for example. for an article constituting the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's where the warehouses are. I'm talking about it right now, and I put it up at the committee meeting, that's the article. 26 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 are provided that the Court, in its entirety, shall rule in such cases, in the composition of 5 Judges in such cases and such cases, in the composition of 3 Judges in such cases. There is no provision for a single-person composition, which in turn the same law designates for the preliminary assessment of the constitutional complaint, the first-instant one. Such legislative errors, resulting from the fact that this has been decided so long ago, because we are talking about 1997 and the work has been carried out much earlier, there is a lot. In your opinion, Professor, Senator, shouldn't there have been obvious cases that didn't arouse any political emotions, just clean them up? [[Can I answer that already?]] Yes, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u25	Good. Mr. Senator, at the end of the day, you formulated a question to which the answer is obvious, that is, where possible, the senators report amendments and try to improve the text of the bill. As for your assessments of other provisions, some very harshly formulated, I can tell you that I leave you the full right to formulate them and I will not refer to them because they are not questions and that is not my job. We discussed and presented our assessments at the committee meeting. At the committee meeting, the senator drew attention to the unsatisfactory rules that he also spoke about today. He even tabled some amendments, but these amendments were not supported. And that's the answer I could limit myself to. I can add, if the senator accepts that you can always imagine a better law, but we get the text that was passed in the Seym. As we can see from the number of amendments tabled, we have tried to improve it. There are amendments and the majority, and minorities. If they are adopted, the bill will probably have a better shape. There's one thing I'd like to take... maybe not polemics, but I'd like to respond to it. It is a double calculation of the persons, entities who may participate in proceedings before the Court. I've been thinking about it, too. Art. 28 contains a larger catalogue of those entities, Article. 53 less. The difference is that in the article. 53 is about taking part in constitutional complaints cases. So there's only one kind of thing here; this catalog is smaller. Cannot be excluded I'm just guessing. The ratio legis was such that in the case of constitutional complaints which have a heavier quality dimension, the list of eligible persons may be a little shorter than the previous calculation of participants. We can say that, as a matter of fact, we have a general rule and lex specialis in one piece of legislation. I'm explaining it to myself, and eventually I realize that these two figures, these two calculations don't hurt me. As for the other grades, Mr. Senator, this is what we presented... I disagree with many of your critical assessments, but this is not the subject of questions. We can talk about this in the discussion phase when we judge the entire bill. I'm holding back right now because this isn't the stage. Now we answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u26	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, ad vocem. Mr. Senator, I think you misunderstood me. I didn't question the fact that there are two different catalogs... [[That's what I thought.]] No, no. I mean, there's just a mistake out there. First, it is written that the Ombudsman may proceed with proceedings concerning the complaint. And both of them. It is then written that the Ombudsman may proceed with proceedings for a complaint brought at the request of the Ombudsman who does not have such a right. That's what I'm talking about. Except these are 2 completely different directories, I agree, and I understand that. These are, I'd say, two things. And that's where I agree with the senator. I'd have another question for Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u27	Now? Right away? [[Yes, please.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u28	Mr. Senator, because your speech was embedded on the foundation of certain legal principles and imponderabilities, the scope of your amendment, frankly, surprised me a little. If we're talking about certain legal beliefs, constitutionalists' assessments, then we're just dealing with them. Most of it. That's how she spoke. With the following... We were talking about the position of the Venice Commission. It was simply said as the Constitutional Tribunal ruled: 3 judges were elected in accordance with the law, 2 against the law. And goodbye. It's a clear, simple extortion of a rule. Looking at all of this, you can say that some have chosen two judges against the law, and others have sanctioned it in such a way that they have chosen three more against the law. This is a clear situation. Whoever's stronger, the one behind the head and wins. But your amendment and the minority proposal are blurring it because it turns out that we politicians can go beyond certain legal principles. And now we're gonna make a deal. The representatives of the Law and Justice will agree with the representatives of the Platform. But these are only two games. And I'd like you to tell me how you can reconcile the two looks you presented. Because on the one hand, you were quite basically talking about the law being the law, and on the other hand, you are proposing a solution that, so to speak, is blurring that clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u29	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator Comfort He's a fellow committeeman. Indeed, this is not a pure legal amendment. I mentioned, however, that the milk was boiling. And in life we have many of these situations, that the law is sometimes unable or unable to respond to the challenges that reality poses. That is why the Venice Commission, which has distinguished lawyers, with high authority and yet a great deal of experience, which, as the report points out, has examined many different, difficult issues... I don't want to say that she washed her hands from pointing out a solution in this case. Although in thirty and a few cases she made an explicit statement, precisely how the law should sound She just sent it back to the power of coalition partners and opposition partners. But the truth is, she added that on the ground of law enforcement... But you, Senator, have actually tabled an amendment that may also be right. As you said, the choice of three judges should first be consummated, followed by the next three. That's the kind of amendment I didn't notice. As I said, as a man, so to speak, there have been clashes in situations of various kinds, including the signing of various compromises... I'll add that I signed all the compromises with the Communists. None of them had legal force, the communist system was embedded in other legal realities. I believe that it is now necessary to choose: the purity of the letter of the law or, so to speak, not to be left behind with citizens' rights, with civil rights. Because for today, the Court is frozen. It is clear that 150 cases are not dealt with. And it's not political parties, it's business, it's ordinary human affairs, it's people, it's customs, it's business owners. That's what it takes for today. Before, perhaps, Senator, a final judgment is given on who is guilty and who is not guilty of unlocking the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. I believe that this minority proposal... I agree with you that he does not meet the criteria of such legal purity. But he has, so to speak, civic purity and should be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u30	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have basically one group of questions for Senator Piotr Ziientarski and then Senator Rulewski. Maybe the first part of the question first. Senator Minority Rapporteur, where is the Constitutional Court law breaking, as you have said here, the fundamental principles of the law, the foundations of the law that you have been gracious to speak about in the report? And where do you see the wrong intentions when it comes to this bill? Because I, in the minority's conclusions, see the actions that are aimed at making this law not work well. Who among the prominent professors, philosophers of the law you spoke about, spoke about this subject and raised the provisions of this law as unconstitutional? I'd still like to ask. In the minority's conclusions, you put forward a proposal showing that Article. 26 you are going to propose that you resign from this... so that the Court does not request that the case be declared particularly complex from the formation of the court designated for the case in question. In other words, the composition which would have the greatest knowledge that the scope was so serious that it would point out the need for the full composition of the Constitutional Tribunal to consider the matter, or in cases where the particular complexity is related to the financial charges not provided for in the Budget Act, and in particular where the formation of the court intends to depart from the legal view expressed in the judgment given in full composition... Mr Senator, I believe that this provision is fully transparent, moving towards true intentions, because if the formation of the court itself finds that the scope of the case goes beyond its competence, its intended or its intended competence, it may, or should, request such a request for a decision by the full composition. Explain that, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u32	Mr. Senator, you have asked so many questions that in order to answer them, I would actually have to say at least as much as in the initial speech, arguing the minority's request, because I would have to read it. It's practically outside the argument on the majority of 2/3 in the vote, incompatible... Which was in the opinion of the Venice Commission, because actually all the other issues are relevant. It may not concern this law, but this law is even worse in many matters, for example in the matter of the election of the President, where, as I said, the Rules of Procedure have so far allowed the real implementation of the word "Court" to be chosen. How can the Court choose three if the judge has one vote? Therefore, there may be a situation like this... How, then, can the will of the congregation be judged? And that's what I want to tell you. But, of course, I refer to all the opinions of the National Judicial Council here, the lawyers who spoke on this matter... The National Judicial Council, for example in its last position of 18 July, speaks clearly in many points about the unconstitutionality of individual records. Well, I can quote you, but as I said, it would take at least an hour and a half, but I'm prepared for that. Once again, I would like to stress the thesis that you have put forward by Prof. Zaleśny, that there are a number of articles, regulations that, in themselves, are not unconstitutional, but form a whole that is unconstitutional, i.e. prevents access to the court and renders the Court completely inefficient, disabled. And there are very, very many rules, such as those concerning the demands of judges who do not belong to the squad, because that's what we're talking about... Four judges can judge whether the case is complicated or not, even though they themselves have nothing to do with this case. That's the record in this bill, Mr. Senator, and we want to eliminate it. In the light of these provisions, judges It's not necessarily from the composition of the "full" and I'm not talking about other issues, for example, the adjournment of three months of cases, their handling after 30 days of notice, etc., etc. There's a whole complex of rules that just freeze, and they're gonna make the Court illegal. I don't care what we call it. They deprive him of the possibility of real action.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan... [[Excuse me, can I ad vocem, Mr. Marshal?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u34	Excuse me, sir, but the senator didn't fully understand my question. My question referred to Amendment 10. As rapporteur for minorities, the senator should answer why in Amendment 10 aimed at amending Article. 26, you give up the proposed entry in lit. f regarding the recognition of the case as particularly intricate... [[Amendment 10 in which print?]] The committee's report is about minority proposals. [[Which amendment? Ten o'clock?]] Yeah, from the minority's conclusions. [['Cause this is the whole art. 26...]] Yes. Requests for amendments to the Act. [[So, Mr. Senator...]] It's on page 3, Mr. Senator. [[Amendment 10 gives a new wording to the article. 26.]] Yes, Mr. Senator, and in this new version of the article. 26 you give up this record. The senator didn't answer that question. I understand that maybe we're... [[Which point, I'm sorry?]] Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 point (1) (a) f. I understand that we may differ in our assessment of constitutionality, but as for the actual provisions that you are proposing... I want you to analyze this. I would like to know why you are resigning from this provision, according to which the formation of the court designated to investigate the case may appeal for recognition of the case as particularly complex.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u35	Because until now, Mr. Senator, it was not the composition that decided about the particular intricacies, and certainly it was not the judges who decided it outside the squad, it was the president. And we don't think judges should decide that, especially outside judges. At the moment, it is possible for them to decide whether the case is complicated or not, and in fact they themselves have decided to direct the case to a full court, thus disorganising the Court's work. Because when there are 11 involved in complicated cases, and they're all... Well, that must be a special complexity. The particular complexity has been so far, and we are returning to this solution, that in exceptional situations the President decides to do so, with full confidence and not the judges, especially those who are out of office. [[Mr. Marshal, or the second Senator of the rapporteur later, later on...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u36	Yes, you're welcome. Now, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Mr Michał Sewerynski, if I may. [[I'm ready.]] I know, Professor. It's hard for me to argue with you because I know how much knowledge you have. We have recently had the opportunity to talk about this for a very long time. I'd like to ask you about the art. 208 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Well, that's the mouth. 1 provides: The Ombudsman shall uphold the freedoms and human rights set out in the Constitution. However, the proposed law excludes the possibility of the Ombudsman to participate in cases relating to the non-compliance of laws with the Constitution. Why, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u38	Mr. Senator, I will plead the amendment that I tabled with Senator Gogach for the article. 28 point 9. With this amendment, the Ombudsman will have the right Every time he declares his wish to participate in the proceedings before the Court. [[Bravo. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u40	Mr. Senator, I have a question for the senator of the minority motion, Senator Zientarski. Actually, these are three questions. Mr. Senator, you're here. the applicant for rejection in its entirety. [[Yes.]] The question is... Well, I guess we're both judging that the current facts are rather unsatisfactory, to say the least. It's a salvage act, trying to get us out of this wedge, or the state institutions in general, which is right now. So I have a question: what is the purpose of rejecting this law? Does this mean that you want the state to continue? That's the first line. The second point concerns the previous questions addressed to you. Namely, I would like you to give, well, maybe not all, because it will take an hour and a half, but 2 examples of the contradictions of this law as proposed, including the amendments that we have proposed, because these amendments are likely to pass. It's hard not to let them pass. . contained in the printing report No 242 A. But don't just say to yourself that something is contradictory and already, just specify a constitutional pattern, i.e. specify that this article is contrary to such and such a provision of the Constitution, contained here and here. So tell me what's against it. 2 simple examples. [[Okay, of course.]] The third question concerns the basis of all this, the reason. The reason is, I remind you, what happened in June 2015, also in this room, namely the jump to the posts that the Platform has done, trying to choose, trying, repeat, 5 additional Not, as it is commonly said, 2 or 3 members of the Constitutional Tribunal. They all operate with the phrase that 3 of them were chosen correctly, said the journalists. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which dealt with this matter, which is the signature of K 34/15, dated 3 December, is a very specific judgment. Namely, there are statements which are already rubbing off in a sense... well, it is as if the Court is going beyond the scope of its cognition. I mean, the Court there speaks about actual events, about electoral acts, because it says that art. 137, which he studied, is to some extent contrary to the constitution, and to some extent is not contrary. And interestingly, this indisputability is to be implemented in concrete 3 electoral acts, and the contradiction is to be implemented in 2 electoral acts. And the question is... This sentence was handed down on December 3rd. You're, as I recall, a constitutionalist lawyer, so I'm directing this question well. So that sentence was handed down on December 3rd. Let's assume for a moment that the sentence was handed down in August. It was possible to challenge this law in August, after the entry into force in July, i.e. before the acts of choice. What would that sentence look like? What should be the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in this case, namely constitutionality or unconstitutionality? And an additional question. Can a judgment depend on the time it is formulated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u41	I answer the senator's questions about why I filed a motion to reject the bill. I thought I specified my position. There was a specific question, and maybe in connection with the first question... [[Well, the point was that we're assessing the current situation probably negatively, and the bill is about getting out of this situation.]] Oh, yeah, that's right. [[And it's kind of a rescue character...]] Yes, sir, thank you very much. Well, we just think that this bill doesn't go against... On the contrary, only the attitude of the current parliamentary majority and, unfortunately, the President has caused this situation today. Because the case of 2 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, as was mentioned here by Senator Rulewski, was verified by the request of the Platform, because the PiS withdrew... So the PiS signaled that from that moment on, the Court's ruling didn't interest him and that he would do his job. And that's where the problem started. And he is, because those two judges aren't here. There are two chosen, but the problem still exists. So now we see what this problem is all about. It is based on the fact that judgments of the Constitutional Court are not recognised, which are detrimental to the current parliamentary majority. And that's the truth. A simple solution in this situation is to take a vow from 3 judges of the Court The Venice Commission makes it clear that this judgment must be respected... [[How many judges?]] ...and it would be 15, and these three judges would be waiting to be emptied... [[So 15 judges...]] Those three... But first of all, their term of office hasn't begun, they don't have... The Sejm has not passed in their case the beginning of their term of office, so they are to wait for emptying... And that would just be a compromise. The Court could then act normally. But there's no political compromise here. We have no influence on this, and in my opinion no proposals, including those made by Senator Rulewski, will absolutely not be effective. Because there's no compromise here. And you can see that clearly. As far as examples are concerned, there are many examples, such as the issue of submitting a request for a judgment. The Constitution clearly states that there is an absolute order to pronounce judgments, without any conclusions, without any evaluation, without any review. Any suspension, review is contrary to the constitution. And that's what every constitutionalist will say, there's no discussion about it, all the more so because the Venice Commission has made it clear I'm sure the senator knows these arguments. That the Court is authorised and should also be empowered to assess the law in its case and that that judgment must be respected. Another rule is the matter of vacathio legis. It can't be so short that the Venice Commission also talks about it, and it's clearly contrary to the Constitution. It makes it impossible for the Court to verify the law. This is clearly contrary to the constitution. And there are a number of other specific issues that I have spoken about here and which are not in themselves unconstitutional, but, in total, they are undoubtedly of such a nature. It's like I'm joining the quote from Professor Random here. Such examples are... Well, these are the examples. I'm not gonna say, Mr. Senator, what if there was, what would be, what would happen sooner or later? Really, such diwags do not suit the House of the Higher Parliament, the Senate. [[Excuse me... may I? If you don't mind, I have a very specific question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u43	I'm not asking what would have happened if it had been. Please tell me: can the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal depend on the moment at which the judgment is taken or pronounced? It's about the same legal situation. Could there be another sentence in April and another sentence in May?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u44	No, there's one sentence and... [[It's the same legal situation...]] There is one common sentence. It should definitely be published and enter into force and all state authorities must Whether they want to or don't want to To comply with it. This is the doctrine, this is the practice of the democratic state, the rule of law. And whether someone likes it or not, it must be so, of course, if we want to belong to a family of democratic states. Because we can ignore it, just like it's happening right now. Once again, I stress that resolving the problem of wedges in the case of the Court is not a matter of amending the law. In addition, this law, which complements the answer to our Legislative Office's opinion, is very weak in legislative terms, is not prepared. There are indeed no constitutionalists who would help on the other hand... If you don't want to listen to experienced judges or even former presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal, you should listen to some constitutionalists. Constitutionalists have been appointed, and they have no voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u45	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u46	I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, Mr Sewerinski, but he has a really important conversation right now. [[No, I don't.]] Then I invite you to listen to the questions, because there will be two or three. Mr President, Mr Senator, you are the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time the representative of the majority who adopted the bill. What do you think decided that the committees did not share the views of many corporations and legal backgrounds from the country and abroad, practically all of them -- the Legal Office, whose opinion was no longer based on the views of its employees, but consumed a number of other positions? This is accompanied by the question of what must happen or who else can influence us to take into account, however, the way we have generally taken into account so far. The voices of such great authorities, experts of the law. That's the first question. Second question, Mr President. And Senator Zientarski has already shown this. Foreseeing that the bill in your version will not be accepted by the Constitutional Tribunal. Do you know, Mr President, what will happen when there is paralysis again? As you, as a defender of human rights and freedom, will be... What's your attitude toward all these unfinished, dying cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u47	Senator, you are putting me in a difficult position because you would like me to answer for those who voted in our committee's meeting for a bill or against it, and that is secret knowledge for me. I don't know what the individual senators were going for, making a decision, etc. I may know what they were going to do when they took the floor in the discussion, because that's when they justified their speech. But when it comes to voting, their knowledge and conscience determined what they voted for and what they didn't. So don't expect me to be able to explain the reasons for the committee members. It's beyond my knowledge. As for what the Constitutional Tribunal will do with this bill, we can both do it. possibly guessing, each of us can make our own assumptions. I don't have to play prognosis, and I'm not going to. We'll find out how the Court will pronounce the ruling. Then we'll know what it is. I regret, together with you, that there are matters that are pending at the Court and have not yet been settled. I'd rather have them taken care of. I hope that this law will contribute to the fact that these cases will be dealt with more and more effectively and that the arrears will therefore be eliminated. I hope so.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u48	Thank you very much. Senator Wach will ask you another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u49	Thank you kindly. As a matter of fact, my first question I actually have 2 questions about what the professor said at the moment about this hope. Because, in fact, the charges against this law, expressed by us, as well as in a number of opinions, also in the opinion of the Venice Commission... This dramatically is called paralysis, and less dramatically the lack of efficiency or the possibility of resolving cases in complexes and modes that are given in the bill, even without special elements that could be added here. My question, the first question, is, therefore, whether the opinion, as well as the discussion of the committee, raised the question of the estimated efficiency of the Constitutional Tribunal under the contested law? Of course every case is different, but there are statistics. For many years, every year, the President of the Court has said how many cases have been considered, how important these cases have been, so there are statistics, and there is a story. Has there been a discussion of fundamental issues such as efficiency and the possibility of processing what on average affects the Court, under the rule of that law, by the formations investigating? That's the first question. And this, I think, is the fundamental issue for the committee: is it simply, practically, here or can there be paralysis or not? And second of all... It's a question of information, because I don't really know what it's like in these records. What does this full squad mean? Does the President appoint 11 judges to the full, or does all judges actually take part and must have at least 11 of them? What is the procedure in case of full membership? And what happens in the case of the composition as closely described as the composition e.g. 5-person to whom the judges are specifically designated, e.g. One... In short, is there any mode in the bill to change the designated composition? Because it's definitely designated for five-and-a-half-man assembly. Well, I see the rules for dismissing a judge, but they seem to be, as I see it... Because I just don't know exactly what's in the Civil Procedure Code, but these exemptions involve issues of impartiality or family ties, not that a judge might be sick or something else could happen to him. Well, there's five... Is it possible, and if so, to change composition if necessary for reasons other than impartiality?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u50	Mr. Senator, I'll start with that second question. There's an art provision. Article 26 (2) (b) The President of the Court of Justice shall appoint the Judges to the formation of the Court of Justice, including the President of the Court and the Judge-Rapporteur, in alphabetical order, taking account of the types, numbers and sequences of influences of the cases before the Court. The case is settled. About the first question... The statistics of cases considered by the Court and the likely statistics of cases that will be considered in the future, or the efficiency, as the senator says, in the area of handling cases, the committee has not dealt with. Nobody raised that case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u51	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u52	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. During a full meeting of 4 judges, or 4 judges of 11 may postpone the hearing twice, i.e. 2 times after 3 months. In other words, these four judges can block the case for that time. Are such cases known in law, in Poland, in Europe, that this is how the law applies, that judges can postpone the trial for a certain period of time? 'Cause I think it's kind of a curiosity situation, and, as far as I know, there's no such thing as... I'm going back to the ombudsman issue, because you said you could only make a constitutional complaint... Now maybe, of course, if the amendment that you have tabled is allowed to take part in all matters... But I would like to know what has suddenly changed, what Mr Wróblewski said about this? Because in the Seym it was defended, and now it turns out that there is a change and there is also an amendment in this respect. The same is true of the 13 judges. I recall standing in this place where you are speaking at the moment when I was talking about the 13 judges' issue, that it would be paralysis. The point is, when it comes to dealing with cases in order, it's gonna be paralysis, we said December 22. So all I can do is tell you. Now what has suddenly changed since December 22, that now there are no 13 judges, and 11 judges will be in line? Did the rapporteur justify this at the committee meeting? Well, there's a difference. Previously, there were nine judges in the squad. And there's this case that 3 judges can change their lineup to full in exceptional situations, which is also such a gateway. It is a matter of justification that many cases can be dealt with in full by 11 judges, which, of course, will not benefit from the queue that we are talking about in the time when the Constitutional Tribunal decides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u53	Mr Senator, as I remember correctly, the rapporteur did not have such questions as to why there are now 11 judges and there have been more judges, so I will not speak of this. Secondly, when it comes to those four judges who can block, as you say, or postpone the ruling, it is indeed an extraordinary solution, it is obvious. I don't know what it's like in other legal systems. I didn't get a chance to do comparative studies like this. I myself answer a question similar to the one you are asking, in such a way that it is a matter of special importance and that the Constitutional Tribunal is not an ordinary court. The mere fact that in the Constitution it is not called a court, but the Court, already means that there is a difference and that the legislator also recognises the difference in nature of this ruling body. The Court decides on the constitutionality of laws, that is, actually a court of law, a court of law, it is possible to say otherwise, politically, so perhaps that is why, because of the particular political significance of the cases which it decides, it is possible to give more time to think, to think. I will not make any more assumptions, because the senator asks me more about my opinion, my assessment, than what was at the committee meeting; this matter was not discussed there, although, of course, it was raised and criticised by the opposition senators. Well, it's hard not to notice because of the particular nature of this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now you... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u55	Senator, please try to answer how the applicant copes with the dictation... of the dedicating and authorising to the President of the State, which authorizes interference in the order of cases to be decided by the Constitutional Tribunal, and should not such powers be the exclusive domain and authority of the Constitutional Tribunal, as most of the legal opinions that have reached me suggest? At least none of the legal opinions suggest that it is not the Constitutional Tribunal that decides the order of the cases. Well, in this case, how does the applicant cope with the allegation that the said authorisation questions the independence and separation of the Constitutional Tribunal and includes the President of Poland in the process of proceedings by the Constitutional Tribunal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u56	Excuse me, sir, could you give me the specific recipe you're referring to? Which particular recipe are you referring to? Because the president is being mentioned in a few places in this bill. In general, if... [[It's probably an art. I'd have to take a look at the notes that allow the president to...]] I can only say in general, Senator, that... [[The draft law allows the President to impose or submit decision-making proposals which require the Constitutional Tribunal to deal with cases outside the order.]] All I can say is that Senator Gogach and I have tabled amendments in respect of those places where the President could interfere with the Court's activities, and we have tabled amendments to delete them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u57	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Professor, Mr President, I have had five questions that I have prepared with lawyers from my district, No. 21, from Gorzów Wielkopolski, but Senator Piotr Zientarski has already asked many of these questions. I don't want to repeat myself, but two, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask you directly. Professor, I know that a special committee has been set up at the Marshal of the Sejm to work on the assumptions for the new Constitutional Court Act. As far as I can remember, she was supposed to be preparing a special report first of all. What happened to him? Is this report that I believe was prepared by this committee... After all, she is paid with public money and voters have the right to know what they are spent on. Has this report brought us closer to what you are presenting today? That's the first question. And the second question to you is, what will happen to the cases that are pending at the Constitutional Court today? There's about 300 of them. I know that some of them are highly advanced. Will the new bill make it necessary to re-examine it, Professor?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u59	Mr. Senator, I've heard, as have we all, from the media, that there's a committee working to prepare a report. I'm sorry, but the joint senate committees didn't consider any such report, but the bill, so I can't comment on the report because that's not what we've been judging. And as for the cases that are pending, I have already said that there is a rule that says that they will be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of this law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u60	Now, Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u61	Professor, I understand that one of the amendments you have tabled concerns the article. 91 and issues of publication. Please state whether, in accordance with the new wording proposed by you in your report on the work of the committee, the judgment of 9 March 2016 will be published. And the second question about this article. Did you discuss at least this paradox proposed in the original burden of this article... The point is that all the decisions given in violation In your opinion, The provisions of the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Tribunal are to be published in addition to one. What is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u62	Mr. Senator, I don't know what's justified. I can only answer yes to your proposal. I think that's the wording of the rule. The original, without amendment, also excludes the possibility of publication of the judgment of 9 March. That's for sure. A ratio legis each of us can... [[Excuse me, I'll ask you another question. What, Mr President, ultimately, is this change in the article. 91?]] That's easy to see, Mr. Senator, how you compare these two texts. There's another definition of the date. Here's the speech... [[But in a material sense.]] In a material sense? Here is a reference to judgments handed down before 20 July, and that date was different.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Frost will ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u64	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Zientarski and Senator Rulewski, but you don't see a senator. Maybe Senator Zientarski will answer both of them, because I think you had your doubts together. The first question is this. As rapporteur for minorities, you have made 2 de facto a little exclusionary proposals. On the one hand, you applied for the rejection of this law, in which you stated that this law cannot be improved, on the other hand, you have tabled many amendments. Is it possible, then, to improve this bill, or cannot it be improved? That's the first line. Second line. You quoted in your explanatory statement the opinion of a professor from the Legal Gazette, and you said that he agreed... And that was interesting, because you said that all the amendments that we tabled, we, as Law and Justice, at the committee meeting through Mr Sewerinski, were in total in line with the constitution, but when you look at the whole thing, it is against the constitution. Yes? It is on the basis that even if we report something that is in line with the constitution, which responds to some kind of expectations, expectations of lawyers, also expectations of opposition politicians, and not only of the platformer opposition, because there is just a Civic Platform here, but there is more in the opposition party parliament, even when we report solutions that cannot be challenged. What Senator Florek was talking about when we reduced the total number from 13 to 11 is also wrong, because it partially agrees, but it does not agree. Is it not generally so that this dispute is less and less a legal dispute and more and more a political dispute? I'm asking because whatever we propose, you'd still be questioning it. Especially since this law in ninety-six percent is a law which has been in force since 1997, only some additional elements have been introduced there. I know this one is maybe the most controversial one, this one may not be blocking it, but prolonging the time to make a decision, but this also does not prevent obtaining a majority which may appear at the Constitutional Court. And the last question I was going to ask you first was Senator Rulewski... [[The voice from the room: Oh, there it is.]] [[He's here.]] ...who's already here, but I don't know if you're gonna want to answer or if Senator Rulewski... You have tabled amendments to the article. 91 and 92, articles which, in a sense, compel the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to include those three judges sworn in by the President after the oath. Today we have a general... [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. ...the strange situation that these judges take money, have their offices, and the President of the Constitutional Tribunal won't allow them to rule. On what constitutional basis did the President of the Constitutional Tribunal refuse to include judges who had passed the entire procedure, were elected by the Sejm, made an oath before the President, and the President took the oath from them? Please pay attention to this, because you said it was necessary for the president of these five previously elected... Then the Constitutional Tribunal questioned the choice. In any event, according to you, three judges elected by the previous parliament should be sworn in by the President. I'm not a lawyer. Of course, I'm facing you as a lawyer. But I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to remember one thing: the current parliament has annulled the choice of the previous... [[But it was...]] Don't laugh. It is therefore difficult for the President to now swear in the people who have been left by Parliament, the body that is calling... Of course, the president could theoretically have done so until this annulment. He didn't take that oath on that date, and I don't think that today the President has the option, even if he wanted to. Parliament not only chose new judges, but also... he had the opportunity. Logic suggests that if a vow was taken, you'd have to wait for the seats to open up. Parliament has done more than that. Parliament not only chose another President without taking an oath, it theoretically blocks their entry But he's done more than that. I refer to Parliament, referring to the Sejm in this case. What did he do? He canceled that choice. Analogical situation would be if, for example, The National Judicial Council has requested the President to appoint judges and has withdrawn this request. After all, if someone withdraws such a motion, the President can't, I don't know, sign these nominations. These are my questions for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u65	I answer the first question about whether I see a contradiction between the proposal going further, i.e. the rejection of the law and the adoption of amendments. No, I don't see any contradictions. I want to make you aware that I am a lawyer in law and law practice. It consists of so-called applications. procedural caution. It means you can't presume... The concierge doesn't know what the solution will be. This first conclusion, of course, is the most important. I believe that this law cannot be improved so that it becomes a good law. She should be well prepared, among others. in cooperation with the constitutionalists whom the Marshal has appointed for this purpose. These aren't completely pointless questions. It wasn't the press who made it up. It was the chairman of this committee who said that there would be an opinion on the Court in June. That's what he said at the press conference, and we all heard it. That's why this opinion... We are surprised that this opinion does not exist since it has been announced by the chairman of the committee for this purpose. There is no good law, because, as you can see, the constitutionalists did not work on it and did not benefit from the experience of the former Presidents of the Court or even the current one, which is a European standard and what follows from the recommendations, conclusions, thoughts of the Venice Commission, as I have already mentioned. So that there isn't... We wanted to eliminate the basic allegations of unconstitutionality by making these proposals. That's what we meant. Better is a weak law than an unconstitutional law, although, of course, the best is a good law. Therefore, it is better to reject this and write a decent one, and if there is no such will, then at least correct the weak one so that it is at least constitutional. As far as the rules are concerned... Mr. Senator, that's the whole point. That's what the constitutionalists are talking about. The essence of the fact that the Court does not only judge a specific provision. In law, in criminal or civil matters, it is the basis for e.g. the deletion is a breach of a procedural provision if it has affected the content of the decision. One may not be affected, but if there are many, then that influence is. This is a legal construction commonly used in practice. And here's an analogy. That's what the professor, the constitutionalist, and the Venice Commission are talking about. The Venice Commission is also talking about this because it's just saying... I'll put it to you right now... Oh, that's point 88... I stress that these comments of the Venice Commission do not concern this present law, they concern the previous law, but here are a lot of analogys, above all those which speak of recognition and respect for the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. And if there is respect for the judgment of the Constitutional Court, then And here's the answer to the third question. This must be recognised to you by 3 elected judges. That's what we're talking about. More important in this sense is the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal than the resolution of the Sejm. And here might be... Once again, you can accept that, repeal that annulment, and so on. It's true, isn't it? To give you the president, so to speak, the opportunity to go out with your face... There's plenty, lots of possibilities. But that's not what I'm talking about. I want to quote you this... The Venetian Commission's position is that, while each of the procedural changes is problematic in itself, their cumulative effect, I stress: the cumulative effect of the 'constitution' could seriously interfere with the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court by significantly obstructing the issuing of judgments and slowing proceedings before the Court. This will make the Court ineffective as a guarantor of the Constitution. That's what the Venice Commission is talking about. And that's where it is. So, as far as these three judges are concerned, I think I made it clear: this is the consequence of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, these judges are... And this is, of course, the consequence of an important choice, an assessment of the validity of this choice. It was the Court who did this, which assessed the validity of the choice. And there's no question, as the Venice Commission says... Because she has judged this judgment and thinks it absolutely should enter into force and be respected. That's what we're talking about. And this bill ignores, among other things. these clear guidelines. There is much to come out of this situation, but with respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Constitution. [[But on the basis of which the President pays these judges...]] [[It doesn't matter...]] I've already told you: there's no reason to include, Mr. President, there's no reason to include... First of all, because there is a ruling by the Constitutional Court, which the three judges of October passed and their term of office runs... [[And it's done.]] So there's 15... It's okay. There's 15 judges in the court. And if he had accepted these three, he would have acted against the Constitution. He can't do that. [[But on what basis does he pay his wages?]] Oh, that's it, ladies and gentlemen... Pay, pay is not a matter of respect for the Constitution, etc. They are not allowed to adjudicate because... As I said, there is still a political question that can be resolved: this choice will be respected and the judges will be followed up as the seats are freed. In order to respect this taking of the vow... So that there are political exits here. And the legal solution is obvious: these 3 judges elected in October In contrast to those two whose case has been dealt with, they have been elected in accordance with the Constitution and their term of office has begun. And they are not allowed because the vow has not been taken away. So here it is... Of course, I also want to quote the ruling... But I think we have respect for the President's office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Venice Commission clearly states that the President has no right It clearly states that To block this because taking a vow by the president is not a constitutional act for a judge, which means it's not from taking a vow... This is, as the Venice Commission says, the ceremonial nature of such a signal of good cooperation. And that's how it's supposed to be, that's how it's supposed to be. I think that we're not proposing any changes here. That there should be a vow before the president in direct form. Perhaps if this continues, you will have to think about changing form... But what I think isn't about changing form, it's about the will.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u66	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u67	For the last time, I am addressing Senator Sewerinski, and I will no longer ask him. I'm a little disappointed in you. they shall respond to the article. 91. I've already analyzed it. In fact, there's a slightly inverted sentence. The original version was the start date, it was said that it was the period from 10 March to 30 June. You said it was moving to July 20th. So that's the way it's done, but that's the date of March 10th, the amendment doesn't exist. So I realized that this was the Court's ruling of 9 March, after this amendment, too, but at the moment you have led me out of error that he would not come in, as the record shows. But I have a question. Because the bill came out of the Sejm, so of course the Sejm was sitting on it. We in part agree, in part disagree... And I'm a little surprised that some regulations come out of the Seym... You, too, will probably agree that as regards the expiry of the term of office of the judge of the Court, the termination of the term of office, the fact that this is provided for by the President's consent in the form of a provision, that is, of course, by interfering with the Constitutional Tribunal of the executive authority... [[But we tabled an amendment to that, Senator, so that it wouldn't be.]] Yeah, I'm just surprised at something else. And that's why I'm getting to the question right now. As far as I know. And that's what we're talking about. There is a group of Members, this team that you have set up, Marshall Kuchciński, a 15-person group, and this group is working. Therefore, my question is this: is this law that we are discussing now a target law, or is it Is there a transitional bill again? 'Cause that's what it says... I don't know what the rapporteur, Mr Wróblewski, said at the committee meeting, but from all this, this committee is working. So why are we not waiting for a decision, for the work of this committee, why are we not waiting, for example, for what is most important to us, i.e. the announcement, the publication of the judgment of the Court, etc., but we are starting further steps to amend this law? She's still not going to solve virtually any problem with those that were December 22nd when we took... So my question is this: are we supposed to feel that we are going to be discussing the amendment of this law again soon, and we are going to make further amendments, or is this law that we are working on today some kind of target law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u68	Mr. Senator, I don't know the answer to your question. [[You've worked hard on the question, and there's nothing here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u69	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u70	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur, Senator Jan Rulewski. [[He's not here.]] [[It is, it is, but it's on the phone.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, get him there...]] Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. Mr. Senator Rulewski! [[Janek!]] [[Yes, I'm present.]] [[Senator Czesław Ryszka: Talks to the Venice Commission.)]] I have a question for Senator Rulewski, rapporteur for minority proposals, because the Zientarski rapporteur did not answer my previous questions. Also, he did not answer the questions of my previous speaker, Senator Czerwiński. Perhaps this is due to the fact that he did not properly read the question concerning the article. 26. I would therefore like to ask the senator. In your amendment, in addition to the fact that you delete from paragraph f the application for recognition of the case as particularly complex by the court designated to investigate the case, it is in the paragraph. 2 you add that: the President of the Court, on his own initiative, considers the case to be particularly complex or of particular importance. Mr. Senator, if Senator Zientarski, the rapporteur of the minority, had just said that someone who was not involved in the matter should not be held responsible for this matter. After all, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal does not deal with all matters It follows from our record that only this formation of the court can make a motion to decide in full composition, which makes it impossible, in short, to be discretionary, in which place, Senator rapporteur, do you see bias or the wrong intention of the drafters of this law? That's the first question. Second question. You used such a term that this law is biased, and the records are of the nature of power... I don't get it, I'd ask you to explain that phrase, which points to unconstitutionality... I would ask, Mr. Senator, if you were able, to indicate at least two such examples of non-constitutionality in this bill or to invoke opinions that would speak of it. I'm usually, uh, referring to experts, trying to recall their dignity, their names. Because Senator Zientarski here said that the constitutionalists... Well, we could say that parliamentarians, some social side, but let's give an example. I would very much ask you to answer that question. And one more thing. Where do you see a threat in judgment in the so-called. full composition Proposal: 11 of 15 Judges If this provision is similar or, sometimes, would we say, the same as the provisions of the laws in the legislation of Western European countries, in the Member States of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I understand these three questions, but I would ask your marshal to fire me from answering the first and third questions, because this is not part of the matter of a minority request... [[Voice from the room: It is, it is...]] My minority request concerns the article. 90 and 91, i.e. transitional provisions, and you are asking about the rules for declaring objections to judgments. So are those who are, and those who aren't... The third question also concerned a matter which is completely not covered by the minority proposal submitted by the senators. The second question certainly covers this matter and I will try to answer it. I have actually used the wording that the provisions concerning two things, so the exclusion of one of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, the one of the ninth, is biased to the power. This is because this record, as well as the next one, which commands only... which in fact invalidates the choice of judges by the Sejm of the previous term of office. . notabene, in which they participated in a large group of members of the PiS It is biased to power because it pursues the political interests of one group. And the rule of choice for judges... although it is political in nature to come to a choice because they are proposed, the annulment of their term of office cannot be political in nature. There may indeed be a submission of a judge of office, but the bill clearly states under which conditions it may be. There's no condition that he doesn't like the new Sejm, that the new Sejm doesn't like the judge... sorry, the president of the bank, the spokesperson doesn't like it, the judges don't like it. Well, that's what it's like to be powerful, isn't it? So it's not a simple deletion, it's an interesting one.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u72	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u73	Mr Marshal, since Mr President, the rapporteur pointed out that the above mentioned amendments were indeed tabled by Senator Zientarski... I didn't know that because I didn't attend the committee meeting. And therefore, I have a question for Senator Ziientarski, once again, about this mouth. 2, according to which the President of the Court may decide that the case is particularly complex. Mr. Senator, if you have... [[Got it. Got it.]] I would very much ask for a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u74	We tabled an amendment containing the new, complete, complete wording of the article. 26. Just so we're clear. It's there, among other things. Change in the full membership of the Court of Justice. 9 judges This is the new sound of the article. 26. In this new wording, of course, there is also this issue, namely that in full... This was, I stress, and rightly so, because there are matters of particular complexity or importance... And here's the prognosis of lithium. f gives the said option only to the President, either on his own initiative or at the request of the composition. But other judges, from outside the lineup, have absolutely no meaning here and have no right to make a binding conclusion, as is the case with the Parliament's proposal. So this is where the President decides, whether or not he accepts the motion of the judges. That's... This is one of the elements of a completely new sound of the article. 26. I think it's clear. [[Thank you very much. So discretion is on the President's side, right?]] Yes, sir. Do you still...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u75	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u76	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions for Senator Piotr Ziientarski. So that if you could just ask the senator... Mr. Senator, three short questions. In your opinion, as a man who's been working on the committee for many years... [[In the Senate.]] ...in the Senate and not only... [[More like the Senate.]] I would like to ask you the following question: do you think that the proposal proposed in any way and in any part of the text contains the suggestions and recommendations of the Venice Commission? Could you indicate such places, at least one, where the proposal refers to the recommendations of the Venice Commission? That's the first question. Second question. In your opinion, the senator's rescinding decisions for a period of six months as a result of the failure of four judges... what's the point? Isn't that the repetition of liberum veto in relation to the ruling of Polish law and its compatibility with the Constitution? And the third question: I would like you, as an experienced person, to refer to the opinion in which the Dean of the District Bar Council in Poznań, Mr Maciej Gutowski, and Prof. Piotr Cardas, chairman of the Legislative Commission of the Supreme Bar Council, wrote that the latter law is a baseball bat for Polish legislation. [[That's what we've been talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u77	Let me remind you once again that the suggestions made by the Venice Commission, the position or the proposals concerned the previous law. But the new law was about to accept these proposals. And she didn't take it. That is why I often rely on this law. Because most of the rules, which were already unconstitutional, simply remained unconstitutional. For example, the basic issues related to the proclamation of the judgment, the vacathio legis, with respect for the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. their publication and application, of course the issue of these three judges, as was mentioned... One suggestion, Senator, is accepted. Because it is not known why a clear constitutional statement was questioned, which spoke of the majority. There is no qualified majority in any judicial decision. If there's most, it's just most, there's no other majority. Not to mention the fact that there is no qualified majority in the judiciary. The previous law wanted to introduce 2/3 as a majority, but that's what they pulled out of. This is the only suggestion accepted by the Venice Commission. In my opinion, this one is strongly accepted. Adjournment. Of course, you need to know the working method and I've been interested in it for years. The Constitutional Tribunal itself. And there, ladies and gentlemen, before... anyway, I remember President Zdziennicki when he came to inform us. After all, every year the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, both the entire Senate and 2 committees, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission, informs about the work of the Court of Justice, said that in order to set the date of the hearing, positions are very often approaching. A lot of meetings are being held to finally set up a hearing. The appointment of a hearing is, of course, the end of all these arrangements of the judges, if they are, of course, possible. And since the hearing has already been appointed, the designated judges are already standing in their positions and there is no full consensus. Because nowhere is it said that there must be unanimity that you cannot have a separate opinion This has absolutely no reason to postpone the trial twice more, to postpone it for three months, for six months. This is one of the many elements that block the Constitutional Tribunal, one of the many elements, but also this. They all together actually just freeze this Court, incapacitate it. I have already referred to this opinion and once again I will say that it was both professors of law who compared this law to a baseball bat. They said that actually this stick can also play a positive role, but here it actually plays a negative role. He is completely demolishing the Constitutional Tribunal and hence the Court will be a purely facaded institution. But the point is that there should be an organ that will also protect the minority and the parliamentary and the citizens, from the self-will of the majority and from acting contrary to the constitution. So we're just going back to this corset. This corset must exist and he must oppress power, and this corset is the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u79	Senator, if you don't mind, these are questions for you, Senator Zientarski. First question, short. You used a very interesting phrase that the Constitutional Tribunal assessed the validity of the choice by using the same statement in the opinion of the Venice Commission. Please tell me: does the Constitutional Tribunal have any influence on the co-opting of members in its composition? Where does the Constitution contain this competence of the Court? Because the competences are clear, as defined in the article. 188. So this is constitutional matter. On what basis can the Court assess the validity of the choice of judges in its composition? This is the first case. Two. Gentlemen, I am talking about you from the Civic Platform, and you are often using the opinion of the Venice Commission. Maybe I'll quote an article. 79a of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate: The President of the Legislative Commission shall request the presentation of an opinion on the draft law to the competent institution or organisation if the obligation to consult such opinions arises from the provisions of the law or law of the European Union. I would like you to quote the provision of the law or, in general, the provision of European Union law, which would determine the obligation, firstly, of the President of the Legislative Commission to the Venice Commission and, secondly, to take account of the opinion of that committee. Especially since the legislative process is currently underway, and from what we've heard, Even the press spokesperson of the Council of Europe said that the Venice Commission had a prepared opinion on the bill already at the stage of the project, not the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u80	Not the draft, this bill has already been passed by the Sejm. It's not a project anymore, it's a bill. She's obviously in the Senate, but it's already passed a bill. [[But by the end of the legislative process.]] Yeah, of course, it's okay. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I also made a similar request, which was accepted by the previous Senate Chamber, but unfortunately did not receive approval in the Sejm. The idea was that candidates for candidates for the Court should report to the legal community. Of course, not the Court, but the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Councils of Faculties of Law, which have habilitating powers, and the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Polish Academy of Skills. She'd pick most of the Seyms, but the candidates would report these games. Nowhere has it been said that the Court proposes its people. As regards the Court, it follows from the opinion of the Venice Commission that, according to the European standard, its experience with the law should be applied or adopted as a model. This is simply the European standard. [[I'm sorry, we don't understand each other. This isn't about the process of selecting candidates. I have clearly quoted you from the protocol that the Constitutional Tribunal post factum has assessed the validity of the choice. Tell me on what basis he has the right to assess the validity of the choice, the cooping of candidates for his composition. It's a very simple question.]] No, no, I... It was... [[Don't give me the keys, Senator.]] It was a simplification, a thought shortcut. This was not the resolution, this assessment was the result of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Oh! It's very important.]] ...and the Venice Commission, referring to that judgment and to the question of those three judges, considered that this judgment should also be respected in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u82	Question two, if you don't mind. This provision on the opinion of the Venice Commission... This is the legal basis for this opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u83	There is no legal basis for the Venice Commission's opinion. And the basis of this opinion, which we are always talking about, was the request of the Foreign Minister, Mr Waszczykowski. And the committee at the beginning clearly states that it was invited by Minister Waszczykowski. [[And to this bill, too? What was being prepared and what did the press spokesperson or the secretary of the Council of Europe inform about?]] No, but it is a kind of consequence, Senator, since the committee has been invited to the problem and there are recommendations that in the next bill... not only the recommendations, but also the government's commitment that this will be carried out. After all, the Prime Minister spoke about this and declared that it would be done, at least in a serious part. And it's hard for the committee not to care. - No, it's a normal consequence. Its recommendations, whether requested or not, have been followed. It's so obvious that there's no need for formal applications here.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u84	Thank you very much. And, attention, last question. [[The penultimate.]] Yeah, but it's the last one. Mr... excuse me, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I disagree with your two statements. You've decided that the President's oath to the jury is a ceremony. And the issue that was raised earlier, namely the question of the remuneration of persons who do not rule, which are not allowed by... judges that you do not allow by President Rzepliński. In the light of our legislation, a person is elected to judge the Constitutional Tribunal. Such a chosen person becomes a judge only after he is sworn in. So the president is taking part in the procedure for the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And the second case, concerning the remuneration of those judges who are not allowed to rule. President Rzepliński is speaking in a very simplistic way The director of the work establishment who employs, rewards and equips with work tools, in this case these are some equipment, desks, rooms, etc., etc. Don't you think it's hard to find any logic here in the fact that there are judges who don't judge because they're not allowed by the President, by the President of the Court, and their salaries are paid to them, and they don't really know what for? [[It's a parking lot, a bet pays for readiness.]] Can you call it, Mr. Counselor, sir, mismanagement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u86	You're wrong, Mr. Senator, to choose... The Constitution clearly states that the Sejm chooses judges, not individuals, not candidates. The President, in the light of the Constitution, has no prerogative as to the veto on the choice of judges elected by the Sejm. The judges, not the candidates for judges. This was also very widely written by the Venice Commission in this way It's a quote. That taking a vow is ceremonial, non-constitutional. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, maybe in the future constitution, and in this No, no, no, no, [[Still a matter of mismanagement, Mr. Senator.]] [[What mismanagement?]] Well, that's what the D.A.'s office is for, and I don't know if the judges... [[So you think this should be the subject of a prosecutor's case? Yes?]] No. I don't judge, because I'm not the judge of whether or not you deserve to be paid or not. Besides, I don't even know if they're downloading, whether they're downloading in full or in part, or maybe they're not. I don't know. I didn't ask the president or the judges. Well, in my opinion... If I didn't take the job, I wouldn't take the salary. Well, it's simple... [[Thank you, Mr President.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u87	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u88	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I have one more question for Senator Ziientarski, one last, short. Mr Senator asked about the legal basis on which the Venice Commission issued opinions on Polish legislation. And I have a different question, Mr. Senator, and I'd like to ask you for an answer. Are you familiar with any legal acts on the basis of which President Obama issued a critical opinion on Polish law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal? Are you familiar with such acts? On what basis did President Obama give such an opinion... [[He's interfering...]] ... interfering in our affairs? Are you familiar with such acts? [[Very beautifully said, Mr. Senator, really...]] [[Oh, yeah, he said that...]] [[But not everyone can hear it.]] Depends on which transmission, what transmission... All I'm asking for is a corrigendum, Mr. Marshal: I'm not talking about broadcasting on TV shows 1 and 2, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean... [[I see. It's a full statement.]] An objective transmission, yes. [[About the full statement...]] [[Senator Jan Dobrzyński: What was on the website of the American Embassy...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: But what does this have...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u89	I already answered Senator Czerwiński's question, why the Venice Commission was doing this: they clearly said they were invited. But we, ladies and gentlemen, must not forget that we are in the European Union and that this is an organ created just to watch... [[The Council of Europe.]] In the Council of Europe, I apologize, in the Council of Europe. ...to ensure that these European standards are respected by the members And that's what this is about. This isn't an alien organization. We're members of an organization that has a special agenda. As far as President Obama is concerned, I think we all understand this clearly: NATO is based on patterns, democratic values President Obama stressed that we are in a family of democratic countries and where democracy is being broken, where we are taking the floor. There is therefore concern about the Court's situation. [[Thank you, Senator, because it wasn't common knowledge, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u91	I have a question for Mr Sewerinski. I'm talking about art. 92, he's one of the keys in this bill, which you laborably call a repair bill. And it's another law like that. Namely, according to this article, the Court would include in its formations and assign cases to those of the judges of the Court who have taken an oath to the President and have not yet taken up their duties. What about those judges that the president didn't take when he took his vows, in my opinion, breaking the constitution? After all, if we are to make amends, let us remember that this is one of the basic allegations that are being made to the next novels of the Court Act, and let us remember that those persons or some of those who were sworn in by the President, according to the Constitutional Court, were sworn in violation of the law. Do you think that's the case? 92 is fixing anything? How was this assessed during committee meetings?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u92	Mr. Senator, this article has not been evaluated by the committee, it has not been discussed. Nobody raised that case. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. And I think that's the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the article. 60. It states that the Court shall, at the hearing, examine the conclusions of the cases referred to in Article. 3. A. 3 lists the cases before the Court. But there's an art. 4, stating that any court may present a legal question to the Court on the compatibility of a normative act with the Constitution, etc., etc. The Court must also answer such a legal question at the hearing, that is how it was dealt with. Last year's law was that manifest error, the oblivion which was in the 1997 Act in Article. 81, repaired, stated that the Court would consider a proposal, a legal question or an action against lawlessness. It was simply clarified, there was no room for doubt here. I would like to ask whether Mr President agrees with me that this can be done without delaying work, without political consequences, only for the sake of legislative clarity. I'll tell you why I'm asking that question right away. If the senator tells me that he doesn't see a problem here, as with the previous questions, I'm probably not going to make any additional amendments in this respect, as with all the previous problems that I think are. They are quite legally evident. But if the senator answers me that you see the possibility that there's a problem, then with the support of the majority, I'll probably report it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u95	Mr. Senator, I just don't see the need to correct this point, but if you see, if that's what's happening in your optics, in your assessment, you may need to make an amendment. I didn't report her. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay volunteered. Yes? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u97	Mr. Marshal, two short questions for Senator Rulewski. Would you please, Mr. Senator... We'll wait until the senator gets there to hear it. Mr. Senator, I'd like you to dispel my doubts. Isn't your proposal to gradually take office in the Constitutional Court by the judges elected in excess of the Court of Justice sometimes a violation of the constitutional principle, or at least bypassing it? According to the legal opinion, is this or can it be in line with the constitution? Personally, I don't think it's right for politicians to settle over the law over any undertaking. I'd like a comment on that. That's one thing. And second, what you asked Senator Dobrzyński, Senator Piotr Ziientarski. I would ask for your assessment of the mismanagement of the salaries of judges who are over-functioning at the Constitutional Court. [[Thank you very much. May I, Mr. Chairman?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u98	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u99	Mr. Senator, I believe that this minority proposal is in line with the constitution because it does not violate it. He doesn't weaken the rights of anybody, nor the institutions, nor the judges. There's no... In this proposal, we do not intend to piece anything together, whether with regard to the number of judges or their rights. In the form in which they have been elected, they enter the Constitutional Tribunal. Also as regards the need to announce immediately and fully the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, we do not follow the model of the current project for any shortcuts or around, through indirect proposals to the Prime Minister, only we say, as in the Constitution: immediately and in the unchanged content. In fact, the word "compromise" or "compromise" or "compromise" or "compromise" means "compromise" or ♪ As I said ♪ It may raise such doubts that the politicians, alongside the Constitution, make some political arrangements, so to speak. Nothing like that. There is no trade in constitutional values here. The compromise is to get to these constitutional values, that the letter of the Constitution be respected. In this respect, I feel that I am not insulting the Constitution by making this conclusion. The second question is a little more difficult, because we do not really know on what legal basis the President of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[...pays.]] You say he's paying, but it's not like he's paying. ...just made some kind of deal or by appointing... But in the law The current and even the previous situations are known where there is no correlation between the duty to do a job or to do a job or pay. E.g. is released from work . ba, whether or not from coming to work . persons whose employment was in the interests of the company. He's getting fired from the job of someone, a CEO or some specialist, so he doesn't go to the competition. During this holiday In Polish it's almost a year It cannot take up work in a competitive company, but receives a salary. In turn, the form is universal, probably used in all countries, and certainly in democratic countries, so-called. parking space. During this time, employees do not do any work, but receive remuneration. I think we have the right to expect that the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, regardless of what decision he has taken in this regard, has certainly consulted her with a labour law lawyer in order to avoid a possible trial. And at all, the charge of mismanagement... I can't answer that question because it's actually frivolous, prosecutorial, and against the culture of our group. [[You were talking about the prosecutor, Mr. Zientarski, Mr. Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u100	Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, Minister Michael Wójcik. Come on in. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u101	Good morning. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor to be able to participate in this inspiring discussion about the Constitutional Court Act. Of course, I represent the government, but let's remember that the bill was not a government project. But let me state the government's position if they appear. Of course, if I can. There's some doubt. I would also like to say that I am replacing Mr Marcin Warchoł from the Ministry of Justice today. If I can, of course I will answer your questions. At the same time, I regret that today's meeting is not attended by the President and Professor Andrzej Rzepliński, because by listening very carefully to your questions, I have the impression that a number of these questions could be answered by the President himself. For my part, I would like to say that this is the moment when the political dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal really needs to be brought to an end. The political situation is absolutely extraordinary, but it is enough to take a good look around each other and extremely complicated. I think that a few years ago our imagination did not go that far, and we did not expect our country and Europe to be in such a situation. Today, the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal, which has been extended, is really hurting the state itself. You could say that this law. Someone said 90%, maybe this percentage is even bigger Indeed, it refers to the 1997 Act. The Constitutional Tribunal has been able to function for all these years. Of course the Court is part of the whole camera... According to the Constitution, there is legislative, executive and judicial power. So the Court places itself at a certain point in the system. There were big and smaller disputes at the time, but this dispute we're having today is a destructive dispute. This dispute was not caused by our government. Its roots date back to the previous parliamentary term. This law can sort out a lot of things precisely because it refers to the 1997 law, many of its solutions. As far as important changes are concerned, in fact, there are only 7 changes to my knowledge, which may raise some doubts and questions from the parties, I understand, mainly from the opposition, to which, of course, we are trying to answer. I listened to the first speech after the speech of the rapporteur Senator Zientarski. The argument that this bill is against the law... It's not our job to form one of these either. There is a certain division of power, and it is not for us to decide whether it is contradictory or not. Of course, we listen to all the voices, even the most critical of the doctrine, of the various judges, including those who have had the opportunity to hold office in the Constitutional Tribunal in the past. We listen to each voice very carefully, but we don't agree with everyone. I would like to say to you that under no circumstances do we violate the principles of the democratic state, the principles of division of power. We know the constitution very well, we know it well enough to know where the boundaries between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities run. However, it must be remembered that if we have a certain order of democracy... This load once in a while is determined by the democratic choice made by the voters themselves. Someone's been given a mandate to rule. The parliamentary majority decides on certain matters and it cannot be said that what this parliamentary majority has voted on is a violation of the principles of the democratic state. It's a matter of... [[It's just...]] Yeah, but it's not for us anymore... [[It follows that the Constitutional Tribunal is unnecessary.]] I don't want to go into polemics, Mr. Senator, but you pointed out at the end of the speech that the Constitutional Tribunal was in the system to see if this order had been broken or not. There were references to the Venice Commission. In principle, the Venice Commission has not yet spoken on this document. Right? She spoke about a completely different document. Of course we can appeal to what the Venice Commission has put forward in its opinion, but let us bear in mind that this opinion is not binding. Of course, we approach the opinion or other positions presented by the Venice Commission with a great deal of attention, as it is an institution consisting of, among others. with outstanding lawyers, rarely politicians, but that does not mean that everything that is contained in the opinions of the Venice Commission, we simply need to implement into the Polish system. Every senator knows that. Looking at the opinions of the Venice Commission It can be viewed on the website It can be noted that there are some where the Venice Commission argues that there should be a Constitutional Tribunal in a given country, because it is part of a democratic state. After all, we know that there are countries in Europe where the Constitutional Tribunal has never been. The country in which the oldest parliament in the world is located is also not the Constitutional Tribunal. That's why... [[But she has a queen.]] Okay, but we're talking about the Constitutional Court. I say again: I did not come to you to argue. I'm also presenting my thoughts here. Of course, I will answer, if you ask me a question, I will refer to it, but in principle it is precisely this cry that the Constitutional Tribunal must be necessary... This is, of course, part of our tradition, but let us remember that there are countries in the European Union and outside the Union in Europe which the Constitutional Tribunal does not have, these countries are normally functioning and democratic states. Another opinion in turn... [[Monarchies.]] Another opinion in turn... If the senator is referring in turn to the subject of the monarchy... [[Well...]] That's right, Mr. Senator. Lichtenstein's example, for example. [[You set a very good example...]] That's a very good example. I know. This is, among other things. historical example. It shows that the Venice Commission has presented its opinion that this power of the monarch, in this case the prince of this small state, is not exactly what it should be, and suddenly it has to be a referendum, in which, as you know perfectly well, Senator, has won the position of the prince, the monarch. It didn't win the position of the Venice Commission. This is a perfect example, showing that not everything that is written in these opinions is something that should be implemented directly. Remember, there's something called tradition. [[Exactly.]] And this tradition of ours tells us, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, to find a compromise. And this is where I respond to what you have advocated, emphasizing very strongly the word "compromise." This is the compromise we are looking for in this bill. But the compromise is that everyone has to give up certain of their expectations, which he has put forward in connection with the situation. This compromise cannot be based on the fact that everything that the opposition wishes will be introduced into this solution. Please bear in mind that this law in many points actually departs from the original wording. After all, the government did not really support what you often criticized. Right? The question of voting, for example, the question of the order of influence. There were many areas where we had a dispute, among others. in the Seym, whether that's the solution or not. And this bill, this proposal, this project that I'm saying again It was not a government project, but a parliamentary project, in fact it met your expectations about really a lot of issues. But compromise doesn't mean everyone. That's the whole problem. The issue of the March 9 ruling. There's something called the presumption of constitutionality. It's a shame you're not here today, President Andrzej Rzepliński... [[There's a ruling.]] Okay, but we said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We said... Well, yes, but, Mr. Senator, this ruling was given under very specific conditions, with very specific facts. I would like to ask a question today, among others. President Andrzej Rzepliński, as he understands the principle of presumption of constitutionality of laws. I mean, what law should we rule on? The one that's in effect? [[...a]] Should constitutionality be decided before a judgment is given? After all, it is this principle of presumption that Professor Andrzej Rzepliński and the Constitutional Tribunal themselves... After all, in many places there are provisions. This can be checked in a database of acts Where the principle of presumption of constitutionality is very strongly exposed by the Constitutional Tribunal itself. So that's why we're asking why in this place... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...the law has been broken. Of course, someone will say: indicate a specific provision. None of us are gonna make that rule, but that rule was in effect. That is why the questions arise today: why does this not include the March 9 ruling? That's why, because that would be a violation of the law. And, of course, we can argue, but please check that in 2012 no one other than Professor Andrzej Rzepliński spoke about this principle, the fundamental principle. Why was it not applied in this case? [[...there is no law in the Court's judgment.]] [[Dear Senators, this is not a discussion, it is a statement by the Minister. We're listening.]] In conclusion, Mr. Marshal... [[Minister, please don't go into polemics, because your statement doesn't have that form.]] Thank you very much. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, in our view, this is an attempt to find a compromise. Let us put an end to the dispute around the Constitutional Court, because that is what citizens expect. We will not end this dispute with such discussions. Of course, there are many legitimate questions that have arisen, among others. Today, I had a chance to hear them. But some questions have been raised for months. And it seems that citizens are now tired. Let us give citizens a break from our barren disputes and decide to support this bill. She's good, in our opinion. Of course, it does not meet the expectations of the opposition in 100% Only in the 90s, but it's not our fault anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u102	Thank you very much, Minister. Please remain, I assume there will be some questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You will be the first question asked by Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u103	Minister, first of all, that's the point. Presumption of constitutionality is customary yet Up to the time of the judgment. We are after the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which ruled that the law which you consider to be applicable does not apply in these respects. So it cannot be invoked. And this is in the light of the Constitution, this is the final decision. So since the Minister of Justice has such an approach to the essence of the law, except for the amazement... I can't think of any other way. And now for this compromise. We have pointed out from the outset that the March 9 judgment should be and must be published. And the only violation of the law is that it's not published. Why the State, for example, in the article. 91 or so, aren't you proposing that the President of the Council of Ministers be required to perform constitutional and legal duties? That's the first question. Two. It is known that the Constitutional Tribunal on the election of judges ruled that 2 judges elected during the coalition of the PO PSL was selected in violation of the Constitution. And he ruled that three judges elected under the rule of law and justice were elected in violation of the constitution. You wish to legalise the unconstitutionality of the choice of judges by virtue of the fact that in the Article. 92 you propose that judges who have taken their vows to the President, and thus those who have been elected, in the Court's view, in violation of the Constitution, may take up their duties. It's something absolutely unheard of, it's an offer, I'd say, of a kind of immoral. You offer us no less, no more, only to approve a provision which is contrary to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Mr. Marshal, one minute. And it's been three minutes.]] My question is why?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u104	I just repeat the request: first, questions; and second, questions lasting no more than a minute. [[I'm sorry.]] You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Do you immediately have more questions, or...]] Please? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Could there be more questions or...]] Now it's 3. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u105	Good. I answer to the senator. Well, I'm feeling it. No matter what you think of me as Vice Minister of Justice, the principle of presumption of constitutionality has been trampled on. And I have no doubt about it. I'm not judging, I'm not trying to judge your knowledge. I believe that the Constitutional Tribunal has put itself above the law in this way. And by no means... [[This is the knowledge of legal authorities, not mine.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] No, it's knowledge, Mr. Senator... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but let's make an appointment...]] [[In the title of corrigendum.]] [[Let's make a deal. You're welcome.]] Mr. Senator, I am prepared to provide you with even the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal from years ago in which the presumption of constitutionality of laws was raised. And I really find it difficult to agree with you in this regard. The provisions of the law that were in force when it was decided were not applied. Of course, we can discuss this. You may have an opinion. Actually, I don't think there's any doubt here. What's more, I'll tell you that there are numerous examples. I'll give them to you. This includes articles from professors who have no doubts about this issue. The senator does. I don't know how to convince you that, in my opinion, you're wrong. With regard to the issue of the publication of the judgment of 9 March, this is the essence of the whole dispute. You can't publish something that's really in breach of the law. The law was broken and from here... [[Voice from the Chamber: That's what the Court is for...]] That is why, Mr. Senator, I have made a very strong request that we seek compromise. The political issue that emerged here was the issue of publishing the judgment of 9 March. I'll tell you more: maybe there wouldn't be an entire dispute if it wasn't for the sequence we've been dealing with. The new Attorney General, who came into force when the provisions of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office entered into force, requested that the hearing be adjourned before the Constitutional Tribunal. That's exactly what you remember, and you remember exactly that. Why wasn't this case adjourned? This is a question that could be asked today by Judge Andrzej Rzepliński, Professor, President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Why was this not decided when a completely new person appeared in this position and the function of prosecutor general and minister of justice merged? Why they didn't... there were requests to look into this case, but they weren't allowed to. The sequence was this: March 9 was the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, and then suddenly a group of activists appeared on the streets, asking why certain things were not published. There was a sequence of events here that didn't really have to happen. This is the essence of the dispute. The essence of the dispute is whether to publish or not. Like I said, compromise isn't about doing everything the opposition wants. You asked about the question of three judges, the rule of the article. 92. I will answer that the act is abstract, general, and you know it very well. Not an individual case, on a case-by-case basis, on a case-by-case basis. She doesn't settle certain issues, she's abstract, general.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u106	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u107	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I will not go into the details of the bill because, as you said, each of us will now present different interpretations. As you know, with your education, where there's one recipe, there's six opinions and two lawyers. I have a question about what you're saying because it gave me a very serious... maybe not a doubt, but something I'd call anxiety. Minister, you said there are countries where there is liquidation... You said that with such an appreciation... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Sorry. What countries?]] Countries where there is no Constitutional Court. You talked about it with a positive coloring... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: No, no...]] But that's how I felt about it. Maybe I'm wrong. Am I to understand that the hidden action is to go here? Is this the way to bring the Constitutional Tribunal to its schedule? And if so, do you know the King's name yet? That's the first question. Second question. You said that the government was against the proposals made by Members that the proposals for legislative proposals were not accepted by the government. Can you tell me how the government voted during the parliamentary debate on these draft laws? The last question I'm gonna ask... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I did not say that, Mr. Senator. I'll straighten it out.]] You said that the draft laws tabled by Members were not entirely supported by the government. And I'd like to know... I'd ask you to explain this thread if it's different than I understand it. The last question concerns the opinion of the authorities. Could you give the Minister such brief information in writing... These are the names of the authorities, those who believe that the Court's actions are lawful Not necessarily today, it could be in a letter from the Ministry That these authorities, according to the state, are talking about constitutional matters relating to laws amending the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u108	Are you going to answer the senator first? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I will answer if I may.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u109	Thank you very much. Senator, if we wanted the distribution of the Constitutional Tribunal, we would not, logically speaking, really propose the Constitutional Court Act, which is supposed to settle the whole dispute. [[Why?]] I say again, we wouldn't suggest... We're trying to smooth things over. The government, although it is not a government project, that it was not a government project, supports these solutions. The fact that I said that there are countries in which it does not function The Constitutional Tribunal... Well, yeah, because it's a fact, but don't draw any conclusions from it, I'm just saying it's kind of a fact. There are countries, such as the United States, where the Constitutional Court is the Supreme Court. There are countries... Well, the Supreme Court is a constitutional court. There are also countries where ordinary courts can carry out such tasks, and these are countries that operate in Europe. And we know that very well. So I'm saying this as a fact. Our tradition is that there is a Constitutional Tribunal, and with facts it does not argue, does not discuss. As far as support issues are concerned, I think I've explained that. Of course they were big. Well, there was a legislative process, and it's known that there were different projects. Ultimately, as I said, we supported this project and we absolutely support this law. And when it comes to authority, so looking into the senator's eyes, actually regarding the presumption of constitutionality, I remembered once again that, among other things. Professor Dobrowolski took up this subject. I know that you spoke about this dispute by Professor Genowef Grabowska, who did not necessarily agree, to say the least, with all the demands put forward by the opposition. You're Professor Stelin, the chief, as I recall, of the Faculty of Law at the University of Gdansk... Of course, I can try to continue to exchange these authorities... and I can give it to you in writing. [[It's in writing, and I'll be curious to contact them.]] But there will always be a discussion. We know the law doesn't... Like you said yourself, the situation is that if there's a recipe and there's two lawyers, that's three opinions. After all, we all know that. So it's no wonder that scientists speak and often make contradictory opinions. It's a natural thing. It must be remembered that we have a specific role... a specific task to carry out, a state as senators. We're just eating these opinions, and that's all, and we're learning from them. [[Can I have another sentence?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u110	You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u111	Minister, if this is not so, I would very much ask for the names of these people, these authorities, because I would urge my fellow committee members to hold such a conference in the Senate with those who disagree. Because we may be mistaken, so we will be very happy to hear them at such a conference, their arguments, that it should be accepted, that this bill, that this draft law is so consistent with the constitution that the fly does not sit down, and that is why it is worth it for us to change our mind. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: If I may answer this question, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u112	Of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u113	Mr. Senator, one more remark. Mr. Senator is a good politician, so you expect the people I mentioned specifically to have accepted these solutions as good solutions. I talked about it in context, for example. principles of presumption of constitutionality of laws. I remember what was presented in the media, so of course... As far as your question is concerned, I will try to identify certain persons, but I have no idea what the 3 persons I have mentioned have on this subject, so I say immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that the extended discussion is detrimental to the Polish state. And it could probably be developed, who harms the Polish state in this discussion. I think that would be a good question for Marshal Kuchciński, too, what about this 15-person expert committee... I would like to remind you that we have tried to amend the law on December 24th, on Christmas Eve, from December 22nd to 24th, in express mode, and that after 6 months we are proceeding with the new act. You were talking about compromise. Well, when it comes to court judgments, it's hard to discuss compromises, because you just have to follow them, and that was the opinion of many well-known politicians. I also recall Lech Kaczyński's statement, which also claimed to be the same. So here there is simply no room for compromise when it comes to judgments, it is simply necessary to respect them. My question is: why was such an important bill, the Constitutional Tribunal Act, a parliamentary project? If you're talking about a prolonged discussion, etc., then why didn't the government come out with a bill of good law that wouldn't have caused such a discussion, so many problems, and which would have been adopted much faster? Because I think that it is the government that should take the initiative in this matter, especially when we are dealing with the new Court Act. And one more question, Mr. Marshal. Well, you asked me why Mr. Rzepliński isn't here today because he would explain to us... So I have a question: was the President of the Rzepliński Court invited to this meeting today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u116	Excuse me, I'm gonna take a moment of questioning. I have a question for you. What kind of TV are you from? [[Editor of Polish Television SA Marzanna Stychlerz-Kłucińska: TV Polska.]] Please? [[Editor of Polish Television SA Marzanna Stychlerz-Kłucińska: We are from Polish Television.]] For you, there is a place where you are now. And if you already have such a wish to be here, I would ask you to agree on this earlier. [[Editor of Polish Television SA Marzanna Stychlerz-Kłucińska: Well, I am very sorry.]] You're welcome. Continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: You are probably invited by the senators.]] Under no circumstances would I want to heat my emotions. As you can see, I'm really trying, although it's almost unlike me, to respond in a very calm tone. The question of the committee of experts appointed by Marshal Marek Kuchciński. Well, this expert commission was set up just to try to resolve this dispute. You know perfectly well what was the sequence of all sorts of events that happened along the way. These discussions, which did not necessarily take place in Poland, concerning the resolution of the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, in my opinion absolutely unnecessary... Don't worry, the expert committee has completed its work, we're just waiting for the report to be presented... [[I'm scared.]] ...and this report will be presented. As for the question of why the parliamentary project... Because there's a road like this, too, Senator. It could be a government project, it could be a parliamentary project. That's the way it's been chosen. But remember what I said at the very beginning: very many provisions refer to the solutions that were in force in the 1997 Act. So it seems logical that, in a situation of dispute and because of the desire to quickly resolve this dispute, there will be no inter-ministerial consultation, which, as the former members of the government sitting or present in this Chamber know very well, sometimes last many months. It is in the sense of responsibility and because of the desire to meet what the people expect us to end this dispute... Therefore, among others. We've decided on this road, and it's a legal road, and nobody loses anything here. As you can see, the government is also saying... i.e. I, as Deputy Minister, am speaking in the presentation of a specific position. Yes, that's why, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I am on a formal issue, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Thank you very much...]] Excuse me a second. Senator, you're welcome. [[Senator, on a formal matter.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damian: May I?]] Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u119	Mr Marshal, I am very sorry, but at the stage of asking questions to the Senator of the rapporteur, because I did not receive an answer to my 4 questions, I asked to be the first to ask questions to the representative of the government. And I'm very surprised that the secretaries didn't give each other that kind of information when they left the room. Please fix this.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u120	Okay, here you go. Do you mind if we turn the senator over? [[Of course.]] All right, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u121	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Minister probably heard my questions when I asked the rapporteur's senator. I'm not gonna repeat those four questions because I understand you're not gonna give me an answer to all these questions either... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: You will receive. Why not?]] ...because these answers probably don't exist. But I'm particularly concerned about two questions, and I'd like to get an answer to these two questions. My first question is: what happens to the committee of Marshal Kuchciński? I understand that the Senator rapporteur could not answer this question because it was not the subject of the committee's work, but you should be able to answer that question. Does this committee even work? Because we heard something about asparagus back then, and the asparagus season is long gone. When will there be any binding communications that should be the basis for this law and the basis for the amendments made by the States? And is that even... I believe that voters are taken seriously on this matter if there is no answer. [[One minute, Mr. Marshal!]] [[Please don't-- Mr. Senator--]] That's the first question. [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] Please don't disturb me. I'm talking to Mr. Jackowski. [[Then don't break the rules, Senator.]] Don't be so hard on yourself today. And my second question. Why not publish the information and answers that the government, the Prime Minister, has given to the European Commission. Is that all that's happening in such a secret? Do voters have the right, as part of public information, to know the government's point of view and the response to the Constitutional Tribunal? The other two questions I've asked before, I'm leaving, because I know you haven't considered the positions of many... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: I took it. There was a question about the Attorney General. Then ask that question.]] The question is: do we have the right as voters to know this important exchange of correspondence in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, or is it classified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u122	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm answering the first question. Senator, of course I remember those questions you asked. I wrote to myself that there was a question about the Attorney General and his specific position, which is provided for by these regulations. Because the Attorney General has a special position in Poland, of course not superior to someone else, but special. There are several such institutions. The Attorney General is a spokesperson for the rule of law, and he is acting on behalf of the citizens. Just like we talked about last time in the Seym... Moreover, in the Senate there was also a law on the transparency of proceedings before courts and issues where disclosure can be excluded and who can object to the exclusion of disclosure. And there he appeared, among others. just opposition given to the prosecutor, e.g. It is because he is a spokesperson of the rule of law that he has a special position. I'm answering a question about the committee of experts. I would like to say, Senator, that I come here on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the Prime Minister's Government. And I just want to say that I have some limited knowledge about the functioning of this committee. A few minutes ago, I informed you that, according to my knowledge, I would like to stress: to my knowledge, because I might be wrong. We're waiting for a report right now. And this report will probably be made public. Your Marshal Marek Kuchciński's actions were good. It met the expectations of society. And today we are waiting for the last element of this action, which is simply that the report will be made public. Of course this report... I don't know what's in this report. But look at the temperature of the dispute around the Constitutional Court. In fact, there is a great social debate going on around the constitutional court today. And that's also the plus that we're talking about what the Court's position is, how the legislative authority has to do with executive power, how the executive authority has to do with judicial authority. I will even tell you more: the whole dispute, although we want to end it, I hope that all of them contributed, I think, to the fact that many citizens have reached the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, of course the one that is in force. But we were also interested in this. and many citizens are interested in this. What is the position of the Constitutional Tribunal? It's not such a position that it's someone primus inter couples that it's someone above everyone. It's in the Constitution, for example, in the article. 10, there is a mechanism and everyone knows what belongs to the judicial, legislative and executive authorities. That's the division, not the other. As far as the issue of the publication of correspondence between the government and the Venice Commission is concerned, it seems to me At least that's my opinion. The government is very clear about the position it is taking in relation to the various types of allegations that have been raised, whether larger or smaller. The press conferences attended by government representatives are relatively frequent. It doesn't seem necessary. This is not the result of any provision. In order for the content of the correspondence to be disclosed, in which the government is really doing everything in order to alleviate the dispute. It doesn't seem good at the moment to reveal such correspondence. Does the senator imagine what would be going on here if everyone was discussing whether it was correct or whether there should be such a position or not? It's about calming the situation down, calming it down so that we don't really give ammo to everyone so that there's a dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal for months to come. Once again, citizens are just tired of it. And that's why I think this road is the right way. Thank you very much. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Can I ask one more question...]] [[Voice from the room: Well, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Wait, sign up...]] [[In the next round...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u124	Is the senator... But, gentlemen of the Senators, please don't help me with the proceedings. If we want to start a discussion about the length of questioning, I assure you, none of the senators of these times have followed closely. If someone asks 3 or 4 questions and they last 3 or 4 minutes, we can break it to 3 but it doesn't shorten anything. We can change the rules to follow time more rigorously, introduce some sound or other signals, but we have never decided to do so. We can consider it. If, within certain limits, we approach this flexibly, in a situation of dispute in such a delicate matter, I do not want to create even appearances that we limit the freedom to ask questions or speeches, especially the opposition. In the situation in which we are in, the basic feature that should be characteristic of us That sounded bad. There's humility. Does the senator have a question? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes.]] [[Senator Stanisław Gogacz: One question...)]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, then tell me... If we do not have answers to a number of questions and topics, if we do not have a report from the committee set up by Mr Kuchciński, how is correspondence between the government and the European Union, how is this correspondence held up, which was to appear on Monday, the day before yesterday, etc., then why are we in a hurry to proceed with the new law, instead of waiting for all doubts to be clarified? And the case is very important. What's the rush? Should we not first collect all materials, all positions, all points of view, and then fairly, in due time, begin to process as important a law as the Constitutional Court Act? Thank you, Mr. Marshal, thank you very much for your position; I will certainly not have any more questions, but thank you for your statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u126	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We are in a hurry, Mr. Senator, because the Court is standing, and because this is what citizens expect, that is why we are in a hurry. This does not, of course, put an end to the discussion on the constitutional court in the future and on the Constitution itself. This is a matter of course, that's why we're here to turn on our minds, as we say, and define the law so that it doesn't stand in the way of our citizens and make it easier for them to function on a daily basis. So it seems obvious that such discussions, of all kinds, will probably still be in the coming years. But today, unfortunately, we have chaos around the Constitutional Court. I'm not gonna get political arguments about why it happened that we're dealing with this chaos. Today, let us seek a compromise and meet the expectations of citizens. We're proceeding because the Court is standing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions. The first question is: what features from other projects Here I am thinking about projects that were submitted to the marshal's staff in parallel to the bill being proceded in the Sejm. Have they been used in this law? So what are the ideas from the other projects? Because I know they were. Could the Minister tell you which have been taken into account? And the second question, about this situation: what would happen if, for example, one of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal carried out a public activity incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges? I'm referring to my mouth here. Article 3 178 constitutions. My deepest conviction is that we are dealing with this situation. And I did not find in Polish law elements that would be adequate for such a situation. What should be done? And let me remind you, for example. in the case of the executive authority, for example, the Court of State, there are regulations which in some way discipline the representatives of the executive authority. In the case of the legislative authority, the same thing. However, with regard to the judicial authority, I have this impression, there are quite extraordinary privileges in this area. All this, of course, under the motto of independence, which I respect as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u130	You're welcome... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Maybe one more thing...]] Senator Comfort, I ask you a question. [[Now, Mr. Marshal?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you have said a few things that I agree with about the presumption of constitutionality and the problem of the judgment of 9 March. In order to make a certain addition, so that we have a full picture of the situation, well, as I recall, probably for the first time there was no vacathio legis at all, so that... If this is a problem, then the answer to what happened on March 9 will also be slightly different. You were talking about two articles, an article. 91 and 92, in this context, that standards are abstract. One day, the two of us can probably consider how abstract these two standards are and how specific they are to the political situation, because they actually exclude very specific things and very specific judges. Even if there's no concrete here As for the names, that's what it looks like. And my question... I'm sure the Minister heard them. I'd like you to tell the Minister if you don't think that, for example, Article 2 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) We know from practice that with this record... This entry is still from 1997. The Court also acted within the scope of Article. 4. The solution that was adopted in 2015, no, simply put a dot over There it is written, on a jury basis, that the Court is ruling and in such a case, and in such a case. The same is true of Article. 37 point 6 - I'm talking about 1-person assemblies that are not foreseen... There's a catalog: 5-person, 3-person... and that's not foreseen. Well, these are legislative shortcomings. There's a few more, but I'm not gonna talk to them all. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Doesn't the Minister think it was possible You could still be... This will not violate the rules of procedure in any way, because it is known that there will still be amendments, whether this will be withdrawn to the Sejm... And this little thing, and there's a couple of them, we could fix it and put a dot over there. Doesn't the Minister think that this should be done, for the sake of clarity of case law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u132	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, of course I find it difficult to speak in this regard because this is a matter for discussion between the senators themselves. Here as a representative... [[And I'm talking about the ministry position.]] I'll tell you what my position is. I think that the document should be as perfect as possible, that is obvious. It seems that the Senator rapporteur, the professor also answered you this question and I did not see him deny it clearly, he said no. I think there will still be a discussion on this. Of course, we all want the document to be perfect so that it is any solution, but I do not present the government's position in this regard because it is difficult for me to relate to it. As for the presumption of constitutionality, thank you very much, Mr. Counselor, Senator, for that opinion. The principle of presumption of constitutionality is indeed one of the fundamental issues at issue. Thank you very much for those sentences you have said. As for the issues raised by Senator Jackowski, I will say yes. We... I can at least say that about myself as Vice Minister of Justice. I attach particular importance to independence or independence, to the independence of the courts and to judicial independence. In this respect, too, there were a lot of doubts during the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal, and it was wondered what independence was really about, what it was about. Right? There is independence in the area of judgment. In fact, the whole dispute is about which law to apply, and whether or not. Government representatives, speaking of the fact that a bad bill has been applied, have entered into the matter of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. In my opinion, no. It is important to remember that independence concerns the sphere of judgment. It's a pretty important thing. The issue of any judge, not just the Constitutional Court, in the media, is indeed a very sensitive matter. Every judge must be guided by the principle of objectivity, he must be very careful about speeches, especially if he has certain judgments, he speaks about what may be happening, that one or another provision, one or another, may be unconstitutional. This is a very sensitive matter and you can actually have doubts about certain statements that appear in the media. We've got to get out of here... And as for the first point that the senator raised, I'm going to say it again. The foundation is a 1997 law. We in the Sejm were investigating several projects, looking for the best solution. It seems that only 7 major amendments are not something that destroys the whole order, which has worked well for years. I would like to step away from such a discussion, of course it is not addressed to the senator. Which sometimes appears in different circles, that suddenly there is destruction, that we break something with a baseball bat, because it is not. If we look at these provisions that are contained in this law, we can conclude that in the vast majority it is something that has worked for years and that what is new may not meet everyone's expectations, but if it were to come out, we would probably not change anything at all. There would be a bill that worked for years. It is a good thing that the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal has begun, it is a pity that in such an atmosphere, but this is probably a touch for all politicians.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u134	Thank you very much. Senator Wach's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u135	Thank you kindly, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you also referred to the 1997 bill at the moment. You said earlier, defending the solutions to this bill, which we're investigating, that the degree of compatibility, you even gave it a percentage, I think 92%. Do you think that's the point, or are you making fun of us? After all, one paragraph is enough in the law, one sentence is enough to make it unconstitutional. This bill, for example. contains different numbers. Don't you think it's enough to change a certain number to make the bill unconstitutional? There are numbers here. There were at least 13 judges in full, there are 11. He's here at least 30 days before the first sitting, the first trial. Come on. Four judges may postpone the hearing twice a month by submitting an objection. Don't you think that non-constitutional solutions cannot be introduced in such records, which cannot in any way be taken into account by means of percentages? That's what I think it is, that's what it is. Not in percent, but in the details that make this bill, they make it unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u136	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u137	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, in the first sentence, I said it was an honor for me to come to you today. Under no circumstances would I allow myself to mock any senator, anyone in this room. That's 90%. The ones that showed up... It didn't come out of my mouth, it came out early. If you read the transcript or listen to what was being recorded, then... [[You said there were seven changes that...]] Yes, I believe there are seven major changes. Of course, there are many other changes of a more legislative nature, but 7 is important in my view. It's not like any of us are investigating whether it's 90%, 92%. or 96%. In a large part, to a large extent, as the senator knows perfectly well, this solution refers to what has been in force over the years. It doesn't matter if it's 90%. ... maybe 86%. I'm not making fun of it. The numbers are important, but... It's a 30-day thing. I could reverse that question and ask the senator how many days it should be to meet the expectations. In any situation, we can veto... In your opinion, the senator will present a better deadline for the matter to be resolved, and I will make another deadline. And we're gonna have a totally unnecessary polemic with each other. I could turn the question around and ask, what's the right time? If the full lineup was 13 and it's 11... well, the opposition demanded it, Senator, saying it's too strict a condition that there will be paralysis. I might ask: how much, Senator, then? I mean, it's been accepted once, too. [[Or is 11 too strict?]] But you do understand that... [[In short, do the numbers also determine constitutionality? The ones in the records.]] Anything can be discussed. You can argue if it's 15 judges or maybe 18. How about 25? How about 10? Well, we'll always be discussing... [[You can't...]] Well, we can't. I just want to say one thing. We have to accept some conditions. We've accepted them. You may agree with them or disagree with them. And the question of the veto you raised. This is the solution we have adopted and I hope it is a constitutional solution. I hope it will not be challenged one day. That's the solution we're taking. If you want to know my position... I think this is a good solution. As for the numbers, it's hard for me to argue with you, because we're all going to defend our thesis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u138	Senator Dobrzyński, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like you to answer these two questions in writing. I would like to know about the monthly cost of the Constitutional Court judge's operation. And second question. Doesn't President Rzepliński break the law by allowing judges to rule, but by paying them an allowance? I'm talking about economy. I understand that the agreement is not confidential, and the Ministry may request a review of the employment contract or the contract for the performance of its duties. One more thing. We've been discussing this. I did not find, unlike Mr Zientarski, Senator Zientarski, in Polish legislation. In particular, I am based on the 2015 Act on the provision that the Sejm elects judges. There is a record that the Sejm elects persons who may be judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is linked not only to the ceremony of the President of our country's oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u140	I take it in writing... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Yes, in writing. Just one more remark, Mr. Marshal, if I may. One sentence.]] Of course, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u141	We will, of course, respond in writing, Senator. Every citizen has the right to access this information in public information mode, I think. So that not only the ministry... In fact, everyone has the right. As I say, we'll answer the senator in writing. [[As regards the question: the person and the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal elected by the Sejm?]] I share your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u142	Thank you very much. Senator Shark. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will return to the team of experts for a moment, because at yesterday's meeting... at the previous meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Human Rights Committee, I was asking a question about the team of experts. My question at the time was this: should we not wait for the results of the work of this expert group, because perhaps they would suggest whether they would bring good solutions for the state, for those who prepared this draft law? For the rest of the opinions on these solutions currently developed in this Act are devastating in terms of all environments... at least from those who are engaged in law and law enforcement on a daily basis. I must tell you that I received an answer at the time, that work is still underway. Therefore, I would like to ask you this question: why this team of experts? I also got the answer that there is work to be done on the constitution, on amending the constitution. In this regard, please answer me, Minister, to the question: whether to any extent at all Did you use the work or the results of the work that this team has worked out? Oh, Senator Dobrzyński left. 'Cause everybody's asking for their wages. That's why I'd have a question. How much has this team made so far, individual members? I won't be polite either, but unfortunately, we've all been waiting for this team's product... The question therefore is: how much have the members of this team made so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u144	More questions? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: No. Maybe if you'll allow me, I'll answer right away. Can I answer that?]] Of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u145	Thank you very much. Senator, I'm going to repeat once again: to my knowledge, but I can be mistaken, this team has finished their work and a report will appear. Of course, I cannot judge these matters, because this question should be addressed to the Marshal of the Sejm, possibly to the chairman of the expert group, to the Professor. And don't overestimate my knowledge of certain elements. As far as the team's salary is concerned, I can't remember exactly how much the team members make, it's hard for me to say, but I think you'll get that information in the Sejm Office. As far as project issues are concerned, please note that this is a parliamentary project. I'm gonna say this again, because you're asking me why one or another has come up... I'm just presenting my position on behalf of the government. It wasn't a government project, it was a parliamentary project, so you overestimated my knowledge and the role I play. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may supplement...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u146	You're welcome. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u147	I would very much like to have this information in writing at the hands of your marshal, okay? Is this team of experts over? What is the result of this work? And what is the level of the previously paid salary for the individual members of this expert team? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u148	Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u149	Minister, you said that the Court is standing, which means we must hurry, because we are losing our image as Poland. But you might ask yourself, since when does the Court stand and why it stands? How long has he been standing? I'll remind you on December 24, when we were working on a revision of bad, bad, terrible amendment, unconstitutional records... Court is adjourned. Now the question is whether, after the adoption of what we are now discussing, the Court will move on after the adoption of this law. We have doubts. As for the fact that it doesn't change anything, these changes that are here, they're slightly improving... Therefore, it is probably difficult to predict that the Court will start, we will probably meet again at such intervals every six months, discuss and update again. But I have a question. You emphasized the role of the Attorney General here. I'd like to know what's gonna happen if the Attorney General, duly notified of the trial at which his presence is mandatory, doesn't come without any excuse. Then, in the light of this new Constitutional Court Act, will this hearing be adjourned, or will it continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u150	May I ask you another question? Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u151	Mr. Minister, three short questions. The first is related to the status of this law that we are considering. I'm treating her as a law in a way that's salvageable because of the facts that are at the moment. I understand that you allow, perhaps also as a representative of the government, a discussion on the law, I would say, a target which may be linked to a change of constitution, and, of course, on a subject related to the Constitutional Tribunal, but more fundamental, so to speak. That's the first line. There's a second thing to do with it. Art. The 10th Constitution says that the system of the Republic is based on the division and balance of power. A question for you as a professional. What does the Constitutional Tribunal and its position balance with regard to constitutional provisions, of course? Is there really an authority, an institution in a country that balances the Constitutional Tribunal in quotes? What if something like this had happened, something one senator, one of my predecessors, was talking about, that is, politicising this Court? Is there a procedure that prevents such and not others from, so to speak, the unconstitutional conduct of the Court, the judges of the Court? And the third... Well, maybe the answer to these two questions is enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u152	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, will the Court begin... Well, as to whether the Constitutional Tribunal stands, I don't think there's a dispute, and if it goes... I think that these solutions that we're going to adopt, I think, will lead to a way out of the deadlock, overcoming the difficulties in which we're all really in. Therefore, once again, I call for a constructive discussion to be held, and I call for this to be done by all political groups and lawyers, because we really do not need to tighten up the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal in the conditions in which we operate today. So will it go? In my opinion, yes, these solutions will allow the Court to move on. There are very specific provisions, in my opinion clear, that will allow us to come out of this impasse. The condition is, of course, one. It's about that sentence on 9 March. Well, it couldn't have been covered here. - We're often asked that. 'Cause that would be a violation of the law, and we can't do that. Then the Court will begin. As far as the question of the involvement of the Attorney General is concerned, this is a provision in which it is clearly indicated, in which places... The point is, the Attorney General or the representative, as I recall, must... I don't remember the exact wording of this recipe, but this case is, as I recall, well-diagnosed, decided. I'll just try in the meantime, if there's another question, find it. I think this solution is a clear solution, so I don't know where the uncertainty came from. [[61...]] Sixty... Maybe if there's another question. And now the debate around the constitutional court and whether there's a risk of politicalisation... Well, politicians always decide that. Is there a balancing mechanism? It is, in my opinion, a constitution. Is discussing the constitutional court a good discussion? It's a very good discussion. Why, for example? Today is the Constitutional Court... I am not talking about these solutions, but why are these final decisions today? It wasn't like that before, was it, remember? Even in this room, there are senators who... There were completely different solutions. At the very end there was still a parliament. That's the solution, not the other way around. Is it a good thing that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal does not answer to the Court of State and you answer? Is that a good solution? These are questions to be asked. So this discussion... I'm judging her positively, as with all the chaos that has arisen around the Constitutional Court... And the sources of this are very specific: this is the specific procedure of Parliament in the previous term of office. Without that, I'm sure there wouldn't be a dispute... But I don't want to make it worse. So this discussion also has a positive dimension: we are discussing a constitutional court, and this is a very important issue. We see how many things there are that can be changed, improved. I believe that such discussions will take place in the future. But let's get this tribunal going. ♪ And he's gonna move on ♪ Of course, in my opinion. When we adopt the solutions discussed here. Besides, we'll see if he moves. I hope no one maliciously causes him not to move... Yeah, but that's a very separate issue. Today it seems that solutions are so clear, so clear that there are no obstacles to getting out of the current impasse to get out of this difficult situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, I have two questions. The first question is: what will happen to pending cases that are already in the Constitutional Court? Let me remind you that there are about 300 of them and some of them are already well advanced. Will the new law simply make it necessary to restart the procedure? And the second question. Minister, when I listen to these discussions, this rhetoric, what you are saying, and what we have heard so far, I have the impression that since December last year we have been trying to introduce something that is not acceptable to Europe and the world. Do you have the impression that, after today's discussion and today's vote, and I guess what it will be like? We're gonna meet again in a few months, because the world is gonna yell again that this isn't what we meant?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u156	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u157	Thank you very much. I'm answering the second question as to whether we'll meet again. I hope that we will meet on the occasion of other laws, reforming, e.g. Justice. And that's probably gonna be... [[But I keep thinking about this bill...]] ...good discussion. But we no longer want to meet on the subject of the Constitutional Tribunal, or at least on these systemic issues, because today these proposals seem to meet everyone's expectations. However, I can see you're making comments all the time. As for the first question, the answer is, Mr. Senator, chapter 4: There is a clear answer to your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Czarnobaj, Senator Dobrzyński and Marshal Sztark. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, senators. I'll see you on the other act. Thank you very much for your kindness. And I hope that the Court will move on, because that is what citizens expect. There can be no further destruction of the state. Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is the terrible price we pay to launch the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal. However, the result of these actions, which the parliamentary majority and the President are taking, is the inhibition of his actions. And slowing down the actions of the Constitutional Tribunal is always at the expense of civil rights and freedoms. Because ultimately the victim is a citizen, a citizen, because the protection of their rights and freedoms stands The Constitutional Tribunal. So I hope that this bill will not be adopted. Because this is another third attempt at extortion at the Constitutional Court, please write it in the transcript of excavation in quotes. Such an attempt led us to the brink of complete paralysis of the Court and its effect is that the Constitutional Tribunal, this main court of the Republic of Poland, is unable to rule on matters as crucial to civil rights and freedoms as the Public Prosecutor's Office Act, which violates the standards of human rights and the citizen, the Surveillance Act which also violates them, the government's taking control of public media, and thus the property of what was public, by the government, or for example. Solving the civilian corps, something that we've built over the years with the joint effort of many political circles, can be said to be cross-party. Now that we're discussing the third. I note: the third detonator, which was placed under the Constitutional Tribunal, is astonished by the determination with which the majority of the government is implementing this programme, in spite of various opinions, not only of national environments, but also of important foreign environments. We refer to the opinion of the Venice Commission, because just as a meter has its pattern in Sèvres, democracy has its pattern in the Venice Commission. It is she who standardises democratic mechanisms that we refer to when we want to assess whether democracy is a liberal democracy or not. It is she who upholds this universal model of democracy that respects rights and freedoms. One of my friends, a prominent analyst of democracy and the processes taking place in the modern world, once divided democracy into different categories and clearly separated electoral democracies from liberal democracy. He introduced a few others, so-called. pseudodemocracy. But this fundamental separation of electoral democracy from liberal democracy is important because electoral democracy is formal and procedural. It is nothing more than the emergence of public authorities in elections in which different political groups compete. That's it. That's it. And liberal democracy is one where, in addition to the use of a transparent electoral process, between elections, the standards of civil rights and freedoms are respected and fully implemented. It's just... [[That's a private opinion.]] ...in which the executive authority is constitutionally limited and actually by the autonomous authority exercised by an independent judiciary. And it's not a private opinion. This is the opinion of such famous democratic researchers as You must have heard the senator. Samuel Huntington or Joseph Schumpeter. Larry Diamond is actually his student and teaches at Stanford University, notabene about a conservative tilt, probably in the well-known Senator Hoover Institute. In short, the PiS seeks to transform Polish liberal democracy into electoral democracy; that is your intention. And admit that it is a matter of ensuring that fundamental rights and civil liberties do not have their guarantor, the Constitutional Tribunal. That's why you're trying to make him terminally paralyzed. We in turn refer to the opinion of the Venice Commission, because the Venice Commission has repeatedly ruled what is in line with the model of democracy respecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, and what is not in line with it, not only in Polish matters but also in Hungarian matters and in many other countries belonging to the Council of Europe. Thus, the Venice Commission, called by the Government of Law and Justice for a ruling, has not only ruled so about the previous Constitutional Court Act, but has also expressed its opinion on the principles which unfortunately continue to exist in the law over which we are leaning. What are the rules? Chronology remained the basic method of case law. This principle can, of course, be violated by law, and may be violated by the President's request to speed up work on certain laws. But the principle of chronology remains. What does the Venice Commission say about this? Just read the article. 65 of her previous ruling. I quote: "The duty to rule in a strict chronological order would be inconsistent with European standards. The Constitutional Tribunal must be able to continue and conclude proceedings in certain cases in advance. Such discretion in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal is in line with European standards, e.g. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 ECHR, which long ago was ratified by Poland ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 47 TFEU. The principle of chronology also remains in this law, which makes it incompatible with these standards. Secondly, there is a high quorum. You have lowered your quorum from a monstrously high number of judges to 11 but it is still a high quorum for European conditions. What does the Venice Commission say about this? I'm sending it back to art. 71, in which the committee finds that this is a high quorum when it comes to a full ruling I quote that it goes far beyond the similar requirements in other European countries. And further: the strict requirement entails the risk of blocking the Court's decision-making process and making it ineffective, preventing the Court from carrying out its key task by examining the constitutionality of legal acts. Of course, once again. This is an opinion on an exceptionally high quorum, 13 judges out of 15 in full. But the 11-person quorum is also very high. And I believe that this opinion also applies to this quorum. And the third issue that we are concerned about is the obvious violation of the Constitution, where it is clearly stated in Article. 190 that the government simply publishes, and immediately, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. And there's no rift here for any government decision. However, this law proposes that judgments should only be made public at the request of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to the Prime Minister. It therefore creates a gap in which the executive authority can enter and thus control the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Time's up.]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. I ignore the issues that you want to correct, for example, the relevant amendments. I am focusing on those fundamental issues which, in the opinion of the Civic Platform Club, make the law under discussion dangerous and in some cases non-constitutional. And since we were also talking about the unconstitutionality and danger of the previous law, we are therefore suggesting that you take these opinions into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. Come on in. [[Where's the applause? What's wrong with you guys?]] [[It's disgusting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u161	Mr. Marshal, thank you for giving me the floor. High Izbo, I think my previous speaker said it in a bright, but very clear way. You have rightly noted that there are no applause, but this hall is not a concert hall, this is no place for applause. This room is not the right place to have phone calls or just talk, although most of you do. You, too. That's not right. It is also not appropriate to comment on the statements of the senators who take the floor, and you do so very often. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to ask the High House what happened that we were so divided today. [[Yeah, what happened?]] What happened was that people who once fought side by side to have democracy in Poland to overthrow communism to go with their foreheads up And today, everyone can say and do whatever they want. Did they share today? Today, instead of going side by side, creating democracy together, most of us are really ashamed. I was ashamed to hear the speech of the President of the United States in which he humiliated us, as Poles, with words about the Constitutional Court addressed to President Duda. It was really humiliating. [[He's often humiliated enough by politicians.]] Mr. Senator, maybe you'd better take care of your Catholic press column, 'cause I think you're better off than getting in here... if you have something to say, then... Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u162	Please, sir, you're registered... [[Speak in the discussion, not talk about political events.]] I'm asking you not to engage in any discussion. Senator Dowhan's voice, please. [[But I'm ashamed...]] Mr. Senator, if you want to take the floor, it's the right procedure, you'll have the floor in a minute. Now he's got Senator Dowhan's voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u163	Yes, I was ashamed because I expected that at this summit, at the invitation of our country so many presidents, so many heads of state met in Warsaw, we would create the right climate. I didn't expect us to be humiliated in such a way that Obama would talk about the Court, about the democracy at stake. [[It's you...]] He, of course, spoke in a very parliamentary way, not like the senator, but the message was clear. It was clear that they did not like the fact that these matters reached not only the Polish public. Besides, if you go outside the Parliament building, you'll see people protesting loudly, who have been conducting a protest connected with, among others, for many days. with the Court, with the failure to publish judgments, with interference in these matters. This was evident in today's questions from the very beginning. This also clearly shows the opinions I have before me, such as the National Council of Legal Counsels, the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Court. I know we're not gonna change much anyway, because decisions have already been made. All the more reason I'm counting on President Duda here, and only on him. It is evident that he was moved by Obama's words, and perhaps not to experience such humiliation again, he will not sign this act. Which, of course, I doubt, but I still hope, despite the attitude I see in this room. That's still going to be voted out. And that's a shame, because, as I said at the beginning, we all fought for democracy together once. Everyone in their dimension, but we walked, you could say, shoulder to shoulder, we had ideals, we thought we were doing a good job. We've succeeded in winning the enemy. Our fathers could not imagine that it would happen without bloodshed, that it would come, you could say, easily, but perhaps not easily. There are people here who are well-deserved, well-known names, people who used to go one way together, and today they have unfortunately shared, and it's sad for me, it's very sad. I hope that there will be another voice of reason for you, and if not, I hope that President Duda will consider what he is signing. Thank you. [[We talked about this last June, when there was an assassination attempt on the Court, that's exactly what I said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u164	Senator Rybicki. Please take the floor. [[There was no assassination on the Court.]] [[How can you not?]] [[What kind of assassination?]] [[Sam Miller said that...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, Senator Rybicki. [[You can laugh at anything, anything you want...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, senators from both sides of the room, please remain silent. You have the voice of Senator Rybicki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u165	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today, we are debating the Constitutional Court Act, which some have wrongly called the Recovery or Rescue Act. During the work of the Sejm, and then the Senate committees proposed to the High House many amendments, which I think have a lot of concerned observers, the Venice Commission, our allies, and in particular the public opinion, to convince that their demands and expectations have been realized during parliamentary work, that the amendments introduced are a violation of opposition, legal environments and in a substantial way, in colloquially speaking, civilise the criticised bill. But nothing more wrong. High Izbo, it has already been said in this Chamber today that the substance of the dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal is not a single rule. The proposed amendments are cosmetics, powdering the law, which is unconstitutional, and despite several changes and concessions from the PiS, the non-constitutional remains. It does not solve the fundamental problems of not swearing in 3 judges legally elected by the Sejm and not publishing the judgment of the Court of 9 March this year, and without resolving these issues the crisis around the Court will only worsen. Today's procedure in the High Chamber, like the one challenged by the Court on 9 March, aims at effectively blocking, preventing the examination of the compatibility of laws with the Constitution and with all the consequences of implementing the plan to make the Court of Justice an institution incapacitated and, in fact, facaded. The Act introduces regulations enabling the current parliamentary majority to be controlled by the Court and provides grounds for blocking its judicial activities. In particular, it concerns provisions which enable the Court to block twice the decision by four judges for a total period of six months, or transitional provisions which will result in the application of the new regulation to cases pending even when there is already a time limit for the public declaration of judgment, or, finally, provisions allowing the President to designate the President of the Court of Justice from among the three candidates selected by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which in fact allows the President to be identified from among the judges elected in the last period, and also from the power of the Act allows the Court to perform judicial functions faultyly selected and sworn by night of the Judges of the Court. The total silence of the new law on Case 3 properly selected judges, which, unfortunately, still has not been taken off the vows, is significant. Here we repeat the opinions of the public, the scientific community, practitioners and legal theorists, these are the opinions that have emerged in recent times and in professional literature, and in public debate. High Izbo, the judicial control of constitutionality of the law is the foundation of contemporary parliamentary democracy, as he must have said before. The President of the United States Barack Obama reminded us at the NATO Summit in Warsaw. Independent examination of constitutionality of laws, independence of courts are pillars without which democracy is transformed into autocracy, which poses a threat to the protection of democratic order and the rights and freedoms of every citizen. The Constitution is the most important piece of legislation, the most important social agreement. It is difficult to understand why a camp of power has shown it so far-reaching disrespect for why it treats the institutions of a democratic state, including the Constitutional Tribunal, as spoils of war. Already today we know that using forceful solutions, the Court can marginalize, make a facade body In view of internal circumstances, it will exist, but it will function in accordance with the expectations of the rulers. But one day, the government will end. A new majority will come, a new government. And then what happens? High Izbo, our common acquis, is to adopt the principle of dispute settlement by judicial means. Not by decrees, messages, agreements and some informal pacts. Although the judicial path is not always effective enough and requires greater intellectual effort, it is irreplaceable. Under the basic law, the Constitutional Tribunal is classified as a judicial authority. The question of what is constitutional and what is not is settled in a court of law. It is therefore not the fault of the current judges that the Court has been entrusted with ruling on the non-constitutionality of all laws, including a law which regulates the action of the Court itself. According to the Constitution, no one can serve the judges of the Tribunal or the Sejm or the Senate in this regard. Within the framework of a democratic rule of law, we have created control procedures in Poland that allow us to question and correct the actions of individual authorities. However, when they gain the value of legitimacy or last resort, all other authorities should respect them not because they have to, but because it is about democratic procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Constitution. I have a nicely framed Constitution of the Republic of Poland adopted by the nation in a referendum. We remember that it was May 25, 1997. This Constitution contains very many important entries. [[The Bible, too.]] Art. 104 concerns senators and Members. Before the start of the mandate of Members And the senators take a vow before the Sejm. They solemnly vow to perform their duties faithfully and conscientiously, to respect the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland, primarily the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, Rzeczpospolita Poland is the common good of all citizens. We said we all... There was a talk about it today. The Republic is the common good of all citizens; it is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. The public authorities shall act on the basis and within the limits of the law. This is a very important matter. We operate under the law and within the limits of the law. [[Now it's art. 197.]] To the article. 197 more coming, easy. The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. The provisions of the Constitution shall apply directly unless otherwise provided for in the Constitution. The Government of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. The legislative authority is exercised by the Sejm and the Senate, by the President of the Republic of Poland and by the Council of Ministers, and by the courts and tribunals. I move on to the chapter of the Courts and tribunals and quote further. Art. 173: Courts and tribunals are separate and independent from other authorities. This is Chapter VIII, which refers to the Constitutional Court. Art. 188: The Constitutional Tribunal adjudicates in cases I will only quote here the most important, first point of compliance of international laws and agreements with the Constitution. That's the most important thing. Art. 190: The Constitutional Tribunal's rulings are generally valid and final. That's the mouth. 1. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2: Judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in the cases referred to in Article. 188 shall be immediately notified in the official body in which the normative act was declared. I will not say this for the second time, but I would like to emphasise the word "immediately." The Constitutional Tribunal's ruling shall be by a majority of its votes. I'll be right back to the issue on 22 December, about what's going on. Yeah, we did. Next: The Constitutional Tribunal consists of 15 judges, selected individually by the Sejm for 9 years among those distinguished by legal knowledge. The re-election to the Court is inadmissible. Art. 195: The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the exercise of their office shall be independent and shall be subject only to the Constitution. Art. The 197 you asked about, Mr. Senator... [[I wasn't asking. I was just saying...]] ...the Constitutional Tribunal's organisation and procedure before the Court of Justice shall be governed by the law; I shall come back to that. I'm not gonna quote any more... Although the rules relating to the Court of State are also very important. Art. 198: For violation of the Constitution or the Act, in connection with the position taken or in respect of its office, constitutional liability before the Court of State shall bear... And here we have a whole list of people who are responsible to the Court of State. Now, ladies and gentlemen... And the Court of State also refers to the article. 201, which states that: The organisation of the Court of State and the procedure for proceedings before the Court of Justice shall be governed by the law. The same is the case with the Constitutional Tribunal. With regard to the Supreme Audit Chamber, we have a record that: The Supreme Audit Chamber is subject to the Sejm, as well as the following provisions: The Organization and mode of operation of the Supreme Audit Chamber are governed by the Act. In the case of the Ombudsman, this is the case: the scope and mode of action of the Ombudsman is defined by the law. Here it is not organized and the mode of proceedings, but is the scope of the... I can keep quoting. With regard to the National Radio and Television Council, the provision reads as follows: "Rules and mode of action of the National Radio and Television Council, its organisation and detailed rules for the appointment of its members shall be laid down by law. No organisation and no procedure, as it is written in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. I draw attention to these provisions, which are, what are these differences in the Constitution as regards these provisions. In the case of public finances, this is the case: the organisation and principles of operation of the National Bank of Poland and the detailed rules for the appointment and dismissal of its bodies are laid down by law. Again not the organization, not the procedure, but the law... I could keep quoting you so that you can see the difference between the Constitutional Tribunal and the Constitutional Tribunal. The Minister here said that the Court is standing and something needs to be changed, because the Court must move on, the Minister has ended with such a remark that this Court should move on... So the question is: why is the Court standing? On December 22nd, there was a discussion in this room... no, I think we're done on December 24th... We talked about this, we said that when it comes to dealing with applications in order I remind you, I said it, and I can do it again. That when it comes to 13 judges, it is impossible that it will be paralysis, and many other things that are unconstitutional... Well, what did it turn out to be? We wouldn't be sitting here today, we wouldn't be discussing a new law if that amendment of 24 December, as to what we agreed here, didn't raise any objections and doubts that the Court wouldn't stand... If the Court is standing, it means someone made a mistake. Luckily, I didn't vote for it, so I have a clear conscience that I didn't vote for it, but someone made a mistake because today we wouldn't be discussing it. So now it is necessary to change this quickly, so that this Court, as the Minister said, will move on. Only now is the matter of the records we have in this new bill. Ladies and gentlemen, further reservations... Just like that bill was bad, bad, bad, unconstitutional, so this bill really doesn't change much. There will be further controversy and the Court, in my opinion, will not move. I will not refer to the particular provisions of this law, because my previous speakers have already spoken about it, I do not want to repeat it over and over again, but it is possible to say about the same comments that were mentioned on December 22nd... They can still be added to it, because it's blocking by four judges for no reason at all. It's like there's been a six-month blockage... These are extra elements. It can therefore be made clear that the Court will not move and we will meet again as you pass this law, in a few months' time, to find again a golden measure for the Court to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u168	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Welcome to the floor... [[Voice from the room: Accurate.]] I'm sorry. Mr. Senator Tight. [[It's tight.]] That's what I said.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u169	Excuse me. At one time I checked: in Poland there are about 2 000 people named Wcisło and only 60 with the name Wcisła, and I would prefer to stay in this minority. [[60? Okay...]] High Senate! Mr. Marshal! The Constitutional Tribunal is the only body in Poland with competence for the final and binding determination of the compatibility of the law with the Constitution. It is therefore unacceptable that the law allows interference in the work of the Court of Justice of other bodies, in particular those which are of an implementing nature. However, the contested law allows the President of Poland to submit applications for the binding power of the President of the Court to deal with cases beyond the order of influence. Such decisions should be the sole competence of the formation of the Court ruling, under no circumstances should any executive authority be entitled to take them. The proposed solution threatens the independence of the Court and the independence of its judges. They pay attention to this, among others. The National Judicial Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the Foundation of Batory, and the Legal Office of the Senate notes that this solution automatically makes the President of Poland a participant in the proceedings. I therefore request that the following points be deleted from the Constitutional Tribunal Act: in Article. In Article 34 (2), the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 38 (5) in Article. 52 (3). All requests concern the right to interfere with the order of the Constitutional Tribunal's settlement of cases by the President of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Augustine, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is a pity that I cannot turn to the Minister, who has so declared respect for our House here that he has left it. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister was just speaking here. I will refer to the final words of Senator Flork. The amendment of this law, as in previous amendments, is a matter for the Court to move forward. To be honest, it's the saying that triggers the imagination. And I would like to ask you a question: if you had a car that didn't want to move, would you entrust it to the same mechanic for the third time? Wouldn't you be suspicious that even though you've been paying attention to what's not working, and that's what co-workers said, that's what experts said, that's what friends from the European Union say in this case, the mechanic doesn't listen and crotch? And wouldn't you be convinced that he's doing this on purpose? Because the problem isn't that, I'm saying it the same way as December 22, which is exactly and in detail in this law. The problem is clear, the problem is why you're doing it. And if international institutions and many Poles, including us as opposition, are concerned, that is why. It's not a question of style, it's a question of purpose. We here in the Senate have a special interest in the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Oh, I can see that.]] We know well that it is false to say that previously the Constitutional Tribunal was dependent on the previous government or on previous governments, because it was us And this country, Law and Justice, you have begun this process, and we have changed the rules of procedure to execute the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, knowing that no authority will pass. So what is the answer to the question, why are you doing this? Because you really don't want to respect the jurisdiction of the Court. After all, from the point of view of the politicians of Law and Justice, the President himself gave a clear answer: because the Court will oppose the reforms we want to propose. Therefore, the possibility of functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal is prematurely excluded. What are these reforms that need to be implemented contrary to the Constitution? We had a chance to see here because we're in this process. We've seen individual laws that clearly violate the constitution... [[June.]] ...were carried out in a hurry, most often at night, without paying attention to any opinions. And it's about respect for fundamental human rights, about the functioning of special services, about the functioning of the prosecutor's office, about freedom of the media in Poland... [[That's why there's no bombings.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] And before that, they were. Therefore, I believe that today is another sad day in the Senate, a bad day for Poland. The moment came when the Deputy Minister of Justice was standing here. And, excuse me, with a ridiculous smile That's how I felt about it, 'cause I don't believe he'd come here for fun. It refers to the fact that the failure to publish the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal results from the fact that it did not respect or respect the presumption of constitutionality. I would advise the Minister to courageously propose a bill prohibiting the Constitutional Court from operating and to consider that there is a presumption of constitutionality. At least it would be elegant. Meanwhile, the state here uses various tricks to achieve the same effect. These tricks are obviously personal blockage, personal confusion. It is true that the government of the PO PSL and the majority of them made a constitutional error. The Court has ruled that. And no one's questioning that two judges have been elected in violation of the law. They have no right to adjudicate. That's it, period. But it is also true that you have boldly, and indeed, you have outbid it because you have chosen as many as three judges in violation of the law. It's just that you're demanding that they have the right to adjudicate. Be consistent! Some have no right to be sworn in, and others have the right to rule, even though in both cases there has been a violation of the Constitution? Unless we agree that the government itself, instead of the Court, will rule on what is compatible and what is incompatible with the Constitution in Poland. The second way is, of course, to block the Court, to clog the Court. Four articles of this kind are used: art. 85, 86, 87, 88. Everything starts over, on new rules and as a rule accept the consideration according to the order of influence. Even the minister didn't know if it was the old man's influence or the new guy's. The chairman of the committee doesn't know that because it wasn't discussed. So you can clearly see that this is a test. darkening the image, and the effect is to be exactly the same as before, i.e. preventing the Constitutional Tribunal from working to complete its work. What else could there be? Travesting the cabaret song: "What else would there be... Gentlemen? What else would there be? I have a feeling that what this mechanic, the contractor in the legal workshop is going to do, is to ruin not only the Court, but also the courts, as well as the local authorities. Perhaps around December, when the term of office of the President of the Court is passed and a few more judges are changed, we will see a law as it restores constitutional order, because, as we know, the effects of the actual judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot be undone. This is the whole game we're witnessing today. Words are chosen so easily, a lie spoken with such an emphase that you can only feel embarrassment. Nothing better can do this bill than delete the rules that completely break it down. I mean, art. 85, 86, 87 and 88, Art. 91, which concerns publications, and Article. 92, which concerns the taking up of duties by judges. Then, too, all the recommendations of our friends from the European Union and the Venice Commission will be met. Mr. Marshal, I'm handing over these amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I didn't take any smiles as ridiculous. In my opinion, this is your overinterpretation that goes beyond... [[That was my feeling.]] ...level of discussion in the Senate. I give the floor to Senator Komarnicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u173	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! For 8 months, we have seen a ruling party step by step destroying one of the most important democratic institutions, the Constitutional Tribunal. In order to eliminate the Constitutional Tribunal, in this parliamentary term you have already created 3 laws, or rather legal bubbles, which by experts and public opinion have been assessed unambiguously. It's negative. I have the impression, ma'am, that Europe and the world... I'm not gonna tell you who and when he yelled they were boobs anymore. As my previous speakers said, on December 22, last year, we predicted what we were going to do, and that's why we're having this discussion today. I would remind you that this is what the representatives of the Venice Commission were talking about, but also the European Commission. Each of them pointed to the unconstitutionality of the records of your projects. You're going for it. And this is the main objective of the new Constitutional Court Act, so that Parliament with your majority can adopt any law, also openly contrary to the law, that is simply a constitution. You argue that Parliament is the voice of the sovereign. That's not true. Parliament is the voice of the representatives of the sovereign. The sovereign of the Republic of Poland is the Polish nation, not the Members and Senators. Constitutional ministers, judges or even judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are not sovereigns. As I said, the sovereign is the whole nation, not the part of it that voted for the political party. Let me remind you... Since you are so eager to appeal to the will of the nation, please remember the constitutional referendum in which the sovereign expressed the will to permanently bind himself and his authorities with this very constitution. I am very sorry that, despite the appeal of really many communities again in a derogatory way of democracy, so shamefully trying to destroy the Constitutional Tribunal. I know you have the majority and you can vote it all out, but there are limits to common sense. Do you really not see the consequences of your actions? The Senate is called the House of Reflection, which is why I cordially appeal to my colleagues from PiS for reflection and common sense. I ask you, dear Senators of the PiS, not to vote for this quasi-law, which unfortunately makes the Constitutional Tribunal entirely dependent on power. We know that's what this is all about. And thus abolishes his role as guardian of the Constitution. I'm afraid to think about what's going to happen next and who's going to decide on the constitutionality of the records. Once this law is passed, we will simply need a constitution. Why does the Act disregard the constitutional obligation to publish a judgment of 9 March 2016, the publication of which the Venice Commission considered as a starting point for resolving the constitutional crisis? What about the judges legally elected to the Constitutional Tribunal in the previous term of office of the Sejm? Why does this new law simply ignore this fact? Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot pretend that these problems are not present. We're not gonna scream it. Yesterday, the Senate committees introduced amendments to the bill, but the main problem is not solved. It will be a facade law that will actually paralyze the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that you set up a special committee at the Marshal of the Sejm, which was to work on the assumptions for the new Constitutional Court Act. Its members were to prepare a special report. What happened to them? Strange secret. The members of this committee are, I remind you, paid for by public money. The voters have the right to know what this money is spent on. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Reforms must be introduced which will make our country more efficient and stronger, but the scale and boundaries of these reforms are always set by the constitution which we, the parliamentarians and the authorities of power must respect absolutely. We must respect absolutely, because otherwise we do not create a bill, only its appearance. Democracy is not only about elections, but also about the fact that the newly elected authority is exercised by 3 equal, balancing and cooperating forces: executive, legislative and judicial powers. Mr. Marshal, Dear Senators, today we will decide whether we will remain part of Western culture or whether we will begin our journey to the East. The choice, ladies and gentlemen, is yours. And I get the feeling that when Europe and the world And I'm sure you'll find out. They'll express their doubts in a while. We'll meet again to sit in a similar style. Thank you for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u174	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is my speech I would like to address to my colleagues, the senator and senators of the Law and Justice. This small representation, I think, will largely convey my golden thoughts as part of the evening talks about what happened today in the Polish Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everything, in a legal and functional sense, has already been mentioned about the Court and the way to establish a law allowing the Court to function legally. That is why, as I have pointed out, I would like to address in a large part my speech to you from Law and Justice. Perhaps I will repent of your consciences, hearts and souls so that you may consider what I would like to say by quoting different people, not just people who are engaged in professional politics... actually those who are engaged in unprofessional politics, because politicians from this speaker appear. So I'd like to ask you a question: why are you doing this at all, what's the point of all this? Well, it wasn't like the Court didn't exist, there was a great political force, Law and Justice, and she said: we have to build a Constitutional Tribunal. Well, if that were the case, I'd understand the bullying we're doing here. But it wasn't. So here's the question: why are you paralyzing? Because this is, as the classic used to say, of course the judicial authority, and especially the Constitutional Tribunal? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that almost 300 years ago Montesquius defined the principle of three divisions of power: executive, judicial and legislative power. They've got a say in it. You're in control of each other, aren't you? Destroying one of the authorities leads to dictatorship. And, of course, you will remember that six months ago, a fantastic article by Marshal Borowski on democracy was published. Democracy is the first step towards a higher degree of power in an undemocratic society, namely to dictatorship. And the destruction of especially judicial authority is an easy way, according to Montescius, to introduce tyranny, dictatorship and such governments. I think 'cause I've known many of you for five years now, with some of you for a year. You do not seem to have such intentions in your hearts and minds that you would like to lead to dictatorship in Poland. Well, I don't believe that. So if you don't have it in you, don't destroy what's the foundation of democracy for at least 300 years. Based on these principles introduced by Montescius, 1787. The Americans have passed the American Constitution, which is still in force today. As the Minister said, there is no constitutional tribunal there, but do you imagine that one of the political groups would attack the Supreme Court in the United States, as is the case with the Tribunal? After all, it would be the end of a policy that would apply such rhetoric to the Supreme Court. These principles were also applied in the Polish Constitution on 3 May. And to answer the fundamental question that I am asking you, why are you doing this, I would like to quote a few statements from people not from the front pages of the newspapers, but people with a known authority. Allow me first to quote Professor Jacek Zalesny, an employee of the University of Warsaw, a constitutionalist who writes that the amendment of the present of course The aim is to prevent the current constitutionality of the laws from being controlled and to allow the Sejm And I would like to stress that I state that the law is what the Sejm considers to be the law, regardless of whether its will is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. So these discussions about particular points of the bill are just a smokescreen. This is the essence of all that you want to make in these successive amendments. And now what I asked in the debate. Professor Piotr Cardas writes that this bill, the project is like a baseball bat made to break up the Constitutional Tribunal. That's what people say about a specific authority. Like you, those who were at the debate, remember, I asked the Minister to give the names of the authorities, and I hope that we will receive them, and we will do a seminar to listen to the voice of these authorities. They believe that what you are doing is lawful, in accordance with the Constitution, is a good solution for Poland and, above all, it is in line with the letter of the law. The question is, why such a scenario? What is this scenario of your actions? I just want to say that he is simple to establish, namely: by December, the Constitutional Tribunal is to be on the schedule so that he cannot refer to the law being adopted on an ongoing basis. Quote from the President Jarosław Kaczyński Excuse me, quote. 2006: a group of aged professors will not decide what is good for society. I repeat: 2006 Mr Kaczyński's dreams that we, as sovereigns, will know what is better for Polish society. And this is the script you're doing. By December there will be 6 or 10 or 20 different kinds of amendments. In December again, the change and paralysis of this one power. I remind you of what Montesquius said 300 years ago. But not just to get involved in a scientific matter. 'Cause there are different professors, 'cause I've read Mr. Maciej Tinyczuk's letter recently. Maybe not everyone likes his music, but Mr. Maciej Tinyczuk writes that in relation to what you do, I address the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice... What will be the result of this? Because if you do something, you have a plan, but in the end, you have to ask what the result will be. And Mr Maciej Maleńczuk writes, which is probably a diagnosis of what state, through actions of the kind, as in the case of the Court, you bring Polish citizens and Poland... Mr Maciej Maleńczuk warns that Poland is in danger of a domestic fight, which depends on the power acting in accordance with the principle of division and rule. [[A very stupid guy.]] Mr. Marshal, did I ask this wisest senator to... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[If we're in danger of civil war, then...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u176	Mr. Senator Ryszka, I call you to order. Continue, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u177	I like listening to you very much, but don't interrupt me. [[Mr. Senator, please...]] I'm on my way. [[...do not discuss with the senator.]] Next, Mr. Malieczuk writes that the authorities will not send to peacefully demonstrating citizens atands in helmets, with sticks and tear gas, yet further demonstrations will be accidentally attacked by various types of militias. And you could tell yourself, as one of the senators tells me here, what I'm supposed to say is that these are some kind of fantasy that they're some kind of fanaber. But if someone... and yet you are people who in previous terms have said: we listen to the voice of society. Then listen to the chapter between Poles today. This type of scenario is possible. And that's why I'm asking you, my dears: think about what the consequences will be. Not individual, individual records, but all of this action, laws of this kind. Finally, before I make an amendment, I would just like to mention one more sentence, Senator, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice. Professor Stanishkis in the last interview does not, of course, leave a dry thread on the Civic Platform because at many moments we deserved it. But at the end... Of course, the entire article is mostly devoted to the actions of the Law and Justice. And in the end, Professor Stanishkis says that what Law and Justice are doing today is like communism alive. That's what Professor Stanishkis says. And so that we do not find ourselves in a well-developed communism, with problems of social peace, I ask you to do not do what you oppose in your heart and mind. Mr. Marshal, thank you and make one amendment to the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u178	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator... Oh, Senator Jackowski isn't here. So... [[Voice from the room: He'll be right there. It's already...]] Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a great naivety, and I would even say that it is a lie to say that we want to improve the functioning of the Constitutional Court, that we want to improve it, because there are delays, and that is why we need to introduce instruments that speed up the Court's activities and make it more effective. And all the changes made completely contradict this thesis! Because it's the opposite. There are a number of slow-downs in the bill. There has already been talk of these 3 months, of an additional 3 months, and there is also an increase in quorum, i.e. full membership, to 11 judges, which of course means that there are only 4 judges left, which is practically no five that could work in parallel. 'Cause that's what this is all about. There's an introduction to the judge's motion. And it's not just those who are in the designated composition. To refer cases to a full-time team in complex situations... etc., etc. I am no longer talking about this transitional provision, which says that all pending cases, even those that have been practically completed, are to go from the beginning. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's a thinking man who would say that these are arguments and solutions to improve the work to accelerate it. This is evident. But that's not all this is about. It's said At least that was the way it was said at the committee meeting, as the applicant's representative said. That this bill is about to close down... and that there will not be a very dangerous legal duality. But of course he will, and that bill won't take him out. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the law, as a matter of fact, elects certain rulings of the Court to be published, and the main ruling of the Court, which has been assessed by the Venice Commission as complying with Union law and standards, cannot be published, means that this dualism will, of course, remain, because the Supreme Court clearly stated that it will respect judgments, including those which have not been published. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is just about two things. About the facade block... And that's what we were talking about. And for this bill to be introduced by these three judges... On this subject, the Venice Commission also makes it clear that now the Court has 12 judges sitting and two groups, each having 3 judges, each so-called. of October, elected by the VII Sejm, and so-called. December, elected by the 8th Sejm. I quote the Venice Commission: However, their respective legal mandates differ substantially on their basis. The December elections were made contrary to the Court's ban on the selection of new judges against the Sejm. We don't remember that anymore. And even then the president did not take the oath from October judges, referring for almost two months to doubts in this regard. Of course, government experts show that vowing is a determining factor in the validity of the election of judges, but the Venice Commission says:, however, unlike the vow made by parliamentarians and the cabinet of ministers, the vowing of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is a requirement only of the internal rules of the Constitutional Tribunal and not of the Constitution as such. Consequently, the mere fact that the oath is withdrawn cannot be considered as a necessary condition for the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The President's acceptance of the oath is undeniably important, being a visible sign of loyalty to the Constitution, but it is primarily a ceremonial function. It should be recalled that the verdict of 9 December 2015 stated that the beginning of the term of office of the Judges of the Tribunal was the moment of their election by the Sejm, not the moment of the solemn oath. This sentence must be respected. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, it is the Constitutional Tribunal, not the President, which is the final arbiter in cases concerning the interpretation of the Constitution. The President of the Republic of Poland and other state bodies are responsible for the implementation and enforcement of judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's it, rule number 109. The matter is, ladies and gentlemen, clear and clear. And that's what they all say: all legal authorities, starting with the Supreme Court, through the National Judicial Council, to attorney corporations, legal corporations. Because lawyers have a duty, too. And I'm one of them to watch over human rights. It's also the duty of an attorney, and mine as a lawyer. The Court is upholding civil rights and this is also the role of a lawyer, which is why I have spoken. Also the role of legal counsel. Batory Foundation, Helsinki Foundation and others Everyone speaks with one voice, ladies and gentlemen. All authorities speak with one voice. We have been waiting for the opinion presented by the committee appointed by your Marshal Kuchciński. There's no opinion, and this committee was supposed to be called up specifically to give an opinion. And he doesn't have an opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, another case I mentioned, too. Ladies and gentlemen, why does this law introduce a provision which has so far been decided differently in the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice? Namely, in this act it is stated that the General Assembly elects the President of the Court and the Vice-President. Well, even if these candidates were 3 and not at least 3... I would remind you that in May a group of senators of the Civic Platform submitted to the Constitutional Tribunal a request to examine the compatibility of the June Act article in the November amendment, which was about the election of the President of the Tribunal. And this issue is being transferred to this bill. And this is contested. And among others. The point is that the assembly is deprived of the possibility, actually the grounds for choosing. How can he choose if judges are denied the possibility to vote for each candidate, only a provision is introduced into the law And that's before in the rules of procedure. That one vote can be cast on the candidate, and a rule is made that the judge has only one vote? There may be a lot of candidates, and three need to be introduced. So it's completely here, so to speak, denying the rule that says he chooses... 'Cause how does he choose if a person with one vote, i.e. a vote by himself, can be presented to the president? That's due to the number of judges. Is this the chosen person then? I ask: is this the person chosen by the assembly? So it's done just to... And yet the President is appointed by the President, and we actually have a shell institution that will not act on matters that are relevant to the citizens and to the state and will be completely incapacitated. That's the point. But we can't agree to that. We absolutely cannot give our consent to this as it was said here. We also need to realise what the law philosophers are talking about, as President Rzepliński said, And this is where we're warning you. The title of the law shall not be entitled to an act which assumes that the Court is dependent on the will of the other authorities. The law which violates these principles of Western legal culture is in fact a form of a law, and the apparent law cannot be called a law. I don't want to use even stronger arguments. I will only quote the philosopher Radbruch:.One must, however, be deeply embedded in the awareness of the nation and lawyers: there may be laws about such an injustice and harm that they should be denied the character of the law. Unfortunately, I believe that these reflections, although based on completely different experiences, are replicated by current constitutionalists and law philosophers. We must realize that we cannot create in bad faith I stress: in bad faith Because there are judgments of the Court which clearly state what patterns were violated earlier, in the case of the previous proposal... [[Thank you, Senator...]] There are also recommendations from the Venice Commission and we cannot fail to follow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[May I have the constitution, please?]] Now, Mr. Senator, I'd just like to give you a brief announcement. After this point, it was supposed to be a two-hour break and then a vote. There's not gonna be a break. We will be sitting until 22 p.m. and the vote on the Court Act will be held tomorrow in the voting block after the point on ratification of Montenegro's accession to NATO. Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u181	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're dealing with something that could be described as never-ending story. Since the memorable June 2015, when we had a long discussion in this House about the amendments proposed at that time in the Constitutional Court Act, a very interesting discussion in which we drew attention to the non-constitutional solutions we believe... During this discussion, I personally asked President Rzepliński what would happen if the Constitutional Court came to consider this law, which, in our opinion, is unconstitutional or will be excluded from the formation of the judge. He said then that of course he would turn off what he had done. I had the impression that many participants in this debate treated this question purely hypothetically. Today, there is a continuation of what happened last June. Let us remind you that a law was adopted at the time, whose political intention was very clear. Under the pretext of improving the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, the then governing camp proposed a small movement. The idea was to select the missing or the outgoing seats of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, by the parliament of that term, in advance, so that by nomination or by indication whether the recommendation of the camp governing the Court for 15 judges 14 was indicated by that camp. The Democratic Left Alliance was also invited to do so because as a result of this selection of judges, a candidate named by the then SLD club was also appointed. Leszek Miller publicly apologized for his involvement in this conspiracy against the Constitutional Court. [[But it's already been done.]] We are now witnessing that those who have contributed to the violation of the Constitution as regards the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal itself become the greatest moralists and defenders of freedom, the threefold division of power, the philosophy of the threefold division of power, the principle of balance, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera... [[But it has nothing to do with...]] [[But it's already been done.]] [[But we're talking about the constitutionality of the bill.]] It all shows... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Don't comment, don't comment.]] [[But it's already been done.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask... I'd like you to calm down your agitated heads. [[I've calmed down. Please, continue.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the effective intervention. Now, back to that thread... [[Talking in the O.R.]] From those restless heads which at that time argued that the present version of the Act is excellent, that it is constitutional, that it rationalises the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, that this is precisely the right situation, today we hear voices of outrage. You'd like to say, and who's saying that? [[Yeah, who's talking?]] Secondly, High Izbo, we've been taking action for months to... [[I'm not listening to this.]] ...the restoration of the crisis that was caused by the reigning camp in the previous term of office... And here I would like to point out that the word "sorry" itself is not enough, because the effects of what was done then are continuing. It's kind of like that, I'd say... Well, it's interesting, because it's like someone hurt someone and said, "I'm sorry, but he didn't make up for the harm that was done. So here the fact that I am sorry is not sufficient to justify what happened in the previous term. We have a dispute about the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, we have a political dispute, we have an opposition which, around this conflict and on this conflict which it has initiated, is currently trying to raise political capital, calling itself the defenders of true democracy, civil liberties, the principles of the democratic rule of law, the whole argument that is being used in this dispute. And to make it even more interesting, we have an art. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 of the Constitution, which states: "The judge must not be a member of a political party, a trade union or a public activity." incompatible with the principles of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Now we might ask whether the speeches of one of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which in the media determines which laws are constitutional and which are non-constitutional, or when we have dealt with the participation of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the ongoing legislative process, I am thinking here about committee meetings, subcommittees, still in May last year and earlier, when there was a bill to amend the Constitutional Tribunal Act, and when we hear various kinds of statements in public media... We may wonder how this constitutional standard applies to the most enlightened representatives of independent, independent judicial authority. And if we take this into account when we meet the judges on 9 March and miss a complaint against the December Law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, we see clearly that we are dealing with such a view that they are right and more right, and to those more right, neither the constitution nor the laws adopted by the parliament elected in democratic elections apply. High Senate, I am glad that this bill is being processed at the moment; I am happy and thank you especially those senators who constructively and creatively joined the analysis of the text that came to the Senate. And I personally thank Professor Sewerinski, Chairman of the Rule of Law Committee, Senator Gogacz, Chairman of the Legislative Commission, and all the senators who participated in the work of the Joint Committee on 14 July and 19 July, because, it seems, the committee meetings were held on these dates. Some have proposed a series of right and good amendments, which I hope the High House will welcome. And this bill will return to the Sejm in a version that will be even better than the one that came to us from the Sejm. I would also like to say that, in my deep conviction, because this dispute is strictly political and political at the moment, it has already gone beyond the framework of the legal dispute. I hope, however, that we will apply in these disputes which are ongoing and which happen in democratic countries, not only in Poland... Let us remind you of what is happening in the United States with regard to the seat of the ninth Supreme Court Judge. Let us recall the constitutional disputes that took place in Austria in other European countries. It happens in democracy. The dispute is sort of embedded in democracy. It is important how such a dispute is resolved. It is important that appropriate conclusions are drawn. In my deep conviction, in order to minimise the possibility of such conflicts in the future, a serious look at the constitution would be necessary, because the constitution in some sense contains contradictions. On the one hand, the Constitution, as we know, is a fundamental law, on the other hand there are provisions governing the way, shape and scope of the powers of the Constitutional Tribunal, describing the Constitutional Tribunal within the Supreme Government of the Republic of Poland, but e.g. Article 2 197 refer the Court's organisation and working procedures to the law. When we work on the bill, it's said that politicians are tampering with the Constitutional Court. As we can see, with regard to this threefold division of power in this constitution and the constructions that are now in it, avoiding in the future any disputes that arise around the Constitutional Tribunal... This is, I agree, essential for the functioning of the state and essential for the model of our democracy. In this respect, a very serious debate should be considered, I stress, perhaps concluded with some proposals already on the nature of concrete proposals for possible changes. I'm saying maybe. And so far, at this stage at which we are at present, this change is being proposed. She, in my deep conviction, responds to the expectations of those who have placed or identified issues that need to be straightened out. This bill goes against such expectations. And not everybody likes it? Well, it's never like that for everyone to like it. So that from this point of view it is a good project. And I hope that the Constitutional Tribunal under this law As far as the main body is concerned, it goes back to the 1997 solutions, i.e. the law that was not contested under which the Court operated, and there was no doubt about it or the dispute... I hope it will be possible to stabilise the situation. I hope that the conflict, which for the vast majority of Poles, judging by social sentiments, is a bit abstract and incomprehensible conflict, which unnecessarily escalates tension... It is particularly worrying to try to internationalise this conflict and to leave it outside the jurisdiction of the sovereign authorities of the State of the Most Clear Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u182	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Czesław Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There is no doubt in this House that this law is temporary, that it contains provisions to remove the state of legal uncertainty so that the Court can act. I'll remind you. It has already been said here that a committee is working in the Sejm, which will prepare a completely new law on the Constitutional Tribunal, which is suitable for today's times. I believe that the new law will confirm that the Constitutional Tribunal will say what I think is a very important body, but certainly not the most important one. The nation is sovereign in Poland. It is the people who choose Parliament and the President. These authorities are essential for the functioning of the State. In this context, the Constitutional Tribunal is an auxiliary institution to stabilise the lawmaking process rather than to rule. It is, of course, a process of law-making based on a constitution. Looking at the bill that we are looking at, which we have received from the Sejm, as well as the Senate amendments voted on at the Senate committee meetings, I see important compromise changes. The full composition of the Court shall be at least 11 and not 13 Judges. The Court is to rule in full on matters of particular complexity. The constitutionality of the laws is to examine 5-person warehouses. The three-person compositions would examine the constitutionality of other normative acts. Decisions given in these submissions would be given by a simple majority. There are many concessions, compromises. Judgments were to be published from 10 March, and the non-constitutional judgment of 9 March would be omitted. The judges of the Court who have taken their oath to the President before the entry into force of the Act and have not taken their responsibilities should be included in the formations of the Tribunal and should be assigned cases to them. It's clearly the bill, not the one before it. Judges shall be appointed to the case by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is also a compromise solution. The candidates to the Court shall be presented to at least 50 Members or to the Sejm's Bureau. The Sejm would elect the judge by an absolute majority. The President and Vice-President of the Court would appoint the President from at least three candidates submitted for each position by the General Assembly of the Court. There are many amendments that, as I say, are compromises, meet expectations and are designed to solve the most important and pressing problem, which is to remove the current state of legal uncertainty. The power is to lose the Law on the Court of June 2015, currently applied by a majority of the Court's judges, which has given 19 judgments on the basis of it in the sentences of three judges elected by the current Sejm since March. I believe the Law and Justice is open to substantive amendments of the opposition. It's just a question of whether you want it, since you're condemning this bill. Moreover, I already know that the Civic Platform in the Sejm collects signatures to challenge the bill to the Constitutional Tribunal, not yet knowing what its final form will be. The Platform and Modern Members argue that this new law will continue to paralyze the work of the Court. But now that we want to make this right, we hear a demand to allow judges elected in June 2015 to rule against the Constitution. Is it a condition for compromise to break the Constitution? It's who's actually using paralysis. Law and Justice or the Civic Platform? I'll remind you, Art. 197 of the Constitution states: The organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Court shall be governed by the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's respect each other! Really, let's respect the Sejm and the Senate. Because we cut our own roots. It is unacceptable that the Court, before giving a ruling on this matter, should not apply the law in force. This was unfortunately the case with the December 2015 Act, which resulted in even greater political tension around the Court. As for paralysis, by the way, there has always been a great deal of delay in the Court's handling of cases. So we should ask what caused paralysis at the time. Let us not hide that the Civic Platform, fearing lost elections, wanted its judges in the Court of Justice. It was supposed to be a bastion that was supposed to put sand in the important laws of the new power. Specifically, the source of all the problems with the Court is what happened on 25 June 2015, as already mentioned here when the PO coalition After the defeated presidential elections, PSL decided, in reckless breach of the constitutional framework, to retain the majority of favorable judges at the Court as the last bastion of its own political influence. And worst of all, it happened with the participation of some judges, including the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's what started the whole avalanche and started the political storm, the fight for the Court, where the fence for legal arguments is just a screen. And this is confirmed today by the stubbornness of President Andrzej Rzepliński, who does not allow three new judges to rule. There's been a lot of talk about democracy here today. The whole mouth has been clogged with that word. I think we still have a lot to learn about democracy and democracy. I will appeal to two examples of true democracy... maybe true democracy is the wrong term, in any case correct democracy. Let me remind you here that just after Brexit, four million signatures were collected in England to repeat the referendum. They say the British even signed from North Korea, from deserted islands, and from the Vatican, where for a few hundred inhabitants... The signatures were signed by thousands of people. The conclusion of this is that a committee belonging to the Union has carried out a specific media-propagand operation so as not to recognise Brexit. I think the orders were headed from Brussels. How did the new Prime Minister Theresa May react to this? Although she was a supporter of staying in the Union, she announced that there would be no attempt to change the decision since the nation, the country, voted in favour of leaving the Union. This is democracy. I am talking about recalling the behaviour of our CODE, including the current opposition, supported by Brussels, who still cannot swallow a defeat in democratic elections today. Unfortunately, a country such as Poland, in which democratically elected leaders want to do the will of the nation, does not like Brussels' anti-democratic officials. Fortunately, there are officials in the Union who are guided by correct democracy. The Austrian Constitutional Tribunal did not accept irregularities in counting votes in the presidential elections in that country. Under the Court's decision, the second round of elections will be repeated and the President of the Gerhart Holzinger Court stated that elections are the essence of democracy. Elections are the essence of democracy. And any doubt here must be resolved. Since elections are the essence of democracy, I will remind you of the 2014 local elections, when PSL and the PO won with almost 20% of the votes that are not valid. What did the presidents and the great judges say then? The Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, as well as the President of Komorowski, found that those who challenged the outcome of the local elections in Poland had fallen into the drive of madness. That's a quote. The Venice Commission or the Brussels Democrats led by Juncker did not focus on this issue. So why, in October last year, when the government elected in an absolutely democratic way, without election scams, was removed from the PO agreement PSL, Poland suddenly ceased to be a democratic country? The question to Brussels officials and the opposition: are you talking about democracy in Poland, or are you talking about vassal of the state towards Brussels, about the ideological dominance of EU rules in our homeland? I was thinking that the bureaucrats from the European Union and the Venice Commission are not interested in the issue of democracy and freedom with us, since they are really doing everything they can to change the will of the nation. I fear that the Eurocrats, building this utopian superstate in Europe, are causing the Union to crumble. To conclude, I would add that it would be good for our judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court, members of the State Election Commission to send to their Austrian colleagues to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[And did the President of Austria prohibit the printing of judgments?]] [[There's no discussion.]] Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator, you're gonna ask me a question in the cockroaches, and now you're gonna have to speak to Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, the digression on the participation of the Venice Commission... I'm here to express my personal opinion. I believe that her invitation to Poland was a mistake, because this committee did not help us at all. That's one thing. Secondly, at the moment, he is claiming the right to interfere even in the legislative process. I would like to remind you what I said when I asked questions, that the committee's press secretary officially informed the Polish party that he was already ready to speak, even though the law had not yet been passed. The legislative process has not come to an end and the Venice Commission is trying to intervene in this process. I think it's just unacceptable. And now the matter of the law itself. What is the reason for its adoption? As I said, it is, in my opinion, a rescue bill, which is primarily intended to end the process that has been going on for some time, namely the existence of legal duality in our country. This dualism occurs both at central level and unfortunately in local governments. Self-governments controlled by the Civic Platform declare, at least some, that they will not exercise the law which has been passed, but that which is supposedly confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal. This dualism unfortunately also enters our society We observe divisions even in families. These are divisions... [[Exactly.]] ...I'd say pretty deep, 'cause these are moral divisions. There are questions about who to stand for. Will this bill end this division, this dualism? That depends on two sides. We, as you can see, talked about this earlier by my previous speaker. We go on maximum compromise, we try to adapt to the expectations of the opposite party. But it will also depend on the Court, which, let's not hide, is still mostly related In particular, through the person of the President, but also by the majority of the Judges who are at the Court of Justice at the moment With the current opposition, it will be up to you whether this law will fulfil its role. The question is, could this be a target bill? I think that, unfortunately, it does not, because it does not remove the reasons that gave rise to this conflict. There are two reasons, but there is one first cause, and that's mostly what I want to focus on. The first reason is to jump. That's how I'd put it. The Platform, now in opposition, but then the ruling Civic Platform, which really did not happen on June 25, when the bill was passed, but earlier, namely on May 12th. It was 12 May during the meeting of the Sejm committee that was introduced into the law of the famous article. 137, which allowed 5 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to be elected by the Sejm of the old term of office. Why the 12th of May? Because on May 10th was the first round of the presidential election and on May 11 you learned that you could lose the election. It was just a rescue log, because it's hard to call it a raft that you hung around your neck, unfortunately also to us, and with this log or Maybe it's for the best. We're on our way right now with this lifeguard. Unfortunately, the dates speak for themselves. You introduced the Article on 12 May. 137 to the text of the Act, unfortunately with the silent confirmation of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal who were present at the committee meeting at that time. What does it say about the President of the Court if later the same Court finds, at least in part, that this provision is non-constitutional? [[He wasn't in the meeting.]] Yes, please read the minutes, then you'll know whether he was involved or not. Once again, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Vice-President of Biernat were present at the committee meeting on 12 May. These are really secondary things right now, but they're kind of turning on what's going on right now. This article was then examined by the Constitutional Tribunal, the famous judgment of December 3. This sentence is very interesting, I suppose someday law students will write doctorates on this subject, about this sentence. That judgment states that Article. 137, that one right there... Incidentally, this article is not a transitional article because it has already been consumed once in 2015 and cannot be re-consumed. He did not really regulate anything, the possible temporal tensions associated with the simultaneous termination of the term of the Judge and the end of the term of the Sejm, he did not regulate in a lasting manner, he did not provide any lasting solution. He was just here to pick five new judges in the old term. And what does the Constitutional Tribunal say in its judgment of 3 December, the signature of Act K 34/15? That is, Art. The 137th Law is well-known, which is interesting, in so far as it concerns the judges of the Court whose term of office ends on 6 November, is in accordance with Article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Constitution, and in so far as it concerns judges of the Court whose term of office expires accordingly On 2 and 8 December 2015, it is incompatible with Article. Paragraph 194. 1st Constitution. With the second sentence, of course, we must agree. There is a very broad and profound justification for why it is incompatible. Then everyone, following this judgment, especially in the media, explains that two judges were elected in breach of the Constitution. Now the question is, what about the three judges? There is no justification, not a word, not even an indirect justification, why their choice is in line with the Constitution. Because it simply cannot be justified, and something that cannot be done, even the Constitutional Tribunal is unable to do. There is not a single sentence in the explanatory memorandum. So all those who say that three judges were elected by the previous Sejm, in the previous term, according to the constitution, I think they're wrong. [[Is the Venice Commission wrong?]] It's as simple as a hood. Why? What would that sentence be like if it were given in this case, e.g. August or September? It's a range sentence, which is about to happen. What would it sound like then? What would the Court say then? I asked this question here in the Chamber to the rapporteur, Senator Ziientarski, but he did not answer, he escaped the answer. That's the same question I asked you. In the Legislative Commission, we considered the Court's report for the previous year, 2015 Mr Rzepliński and he also did not reply, he escaped his reply. Why? The answer is simple. For what reason does the Constitutional Tribunal give different judgments on the same subject, the same legal status depending on the date of issue? Why should the sentence be different in August than in November? Tell me. You will still have five minutes to speak and you can refer to my statement. Is there anyone who can determine why the Constitutional Tribunal gives different judgments... may issue different judgments depending on the date of those judgments? What would that sentence look like in August? And the fact that you can pass such a judgment is another matter that you're about to discuss. So we have the first reason. The reason for the first jump to the posts that you have completed. The second reason is, unfortunately, the exercise by the Constitutional Tribunal of certain powers, certain powers which it does not have under the Constitution. The Court has for a long time issued judgments of a complex nature. We have range judgments, application sentences, interpretations. There are several types of convictions. This is where we're dealing with an application sentence. The ruling in question is that the Court finds that, to some extent, the provision in question is lawful... I apologize, with the constitution, and otherwise. No, no, no, no, But the constitution doesn't give us that opportunity. The Constitution clearly states either that it is agreed or that it is incompatible. Not to what extent... All the more reason why the interpretation judgments aren't... What does such absurdity lead to, such self-righteousness? That is what the Venice Commission rightly said, which was quoted here, that the Constitutional Tribunal in this judgment really assessed the validity of the choice of judges. Since when does the Constitutional Tribunal have the right to judge the validity of the choice of judges? This is probably the only benefit of this whole Venice Commission said the truth in this opinion, which, interestingly, is called judgment. This opinion states that the Constitutional Tribunal has exercised jurisdiction. He doesn't have them, he doesn't have them. On what basis does the Constitutional Tribunal assess the validity of the choice of judges? And such an assessment is indeed in that judgment. Sentence of scope... This was led to absurdity by an indication of which judges were elected in accordance with the Constitution and who were not in conformity with the Constitution. [[Mr. Senator...]] And yet the Constitutional Tribunal... I'm getting to the conclusion. After all, the Constitutional Tribunal is to comment on generally applicable abstract standards, not about facts. That's where the dog is buried. Where's the first cause I mentioned? I don't want to abuse Mr. Marshal's patience... In the Constitution. This constitution was adopted by political forces who are currently not in the Chamber. There may be single representatives, individuals, senators, but there are no political forces. She's Petrifying a deal that doesn't work anymore in society. The Constitutional Tribunal was to be one of the fuses of this system, uncontrolled. We're talking about division of authorities and balance. What does the Constitutional Tribunal balance? No one in this room was able to answer that question. Nor did the President of the Court give a specific reply. Well, the Court isn't balanced. We assume that his judgments will be infallible, apolitical, that he is ideal. What if he's not perfect? We have an example of that. The Constitutional Tribunal is not ideal. And we don't have a legal solution for that. Unfortunately, this bill does not provide for this either. We will have to go back to that, perhaps with more political forces, while perhaps changing the constitution... [[Thank you, Senator, unfortunately, time is up.]] Already? Last sentence. ...and bring about the real balance of the authorities. The Constitutional Tribunal may not be ideal at times. And that's what needs to be predicted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u186	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Wach, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Senator Czerwiński for so clearly clarifying the problem both with regard to the opinion of the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court. You have made it very clear that this is your opinion, but the judgments of the Constitutional Court are final. It seems to me that we can discuss in this regard, because we are co-legislators, and it is better when we understand these matters well, but the ruling does not have that and cannot be affected. Nor does this result in the annulment of the judgment. On the other hand, the right to annul the decision has been usurped by the Prime Minister, who has not published the ruling of the Court, not in this case, but at all... I mean, another case, March 9th. That would be my comment on the matter. Comments on the opinion of the Venice Commission are also valuable. We said in December... I was also speaking on this issue and I was talking about the importance and importance of the Venice Commission. This is true, although its formal status is low, because it is actually the body of the Council of Europe and it is acting exclusively on behalf of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, which is now Thorbjørn Jagland. And also this time, when she prematurely took up this bill, it was because she was ordered by the secretary-general to do so, which he withdrew from. This is neither the fault nor the problem of the Venice Commission, which I have dealt with a lot with, is a relatively neutral and sustainable body. It may be... that is, the decisions of this committee may not appeal to many of you, among others. because it is very sensitive to the rights of various minorities. I mean, it could be that we, and people in many other countries are picking up... Me, for example. I know exactly because I was involved as rapporteur for the Council of Europe for Moldova, that they had great difficulty accepting the opinion of the Venice Commission and actually many parts of this opinion did not accept. However, compared to us Because we also denied, or actually our foreign minister denied, denied the meaning and value of this opinion. The countries in which I saw it, namely Azerbaijan and Moldova, explained more wisely than we did because they didn't say that the committee was stupid that you didn't know that you didn't know the specifics. And, for example, Moldova has said: we are in a very difficult situation, a part of our country is illegally occupied by the Russian troops and we have great difficulties in meeting certain standards, and our clergy are mostly Orthodox, and it is for us that this concerns another matter, let's say, the LGBT issues generally sensitive problem and dialogue with society requires time in this regard. So, as far as the Venice Commission is concerned, she must not be ignored, even though she really... This should not be taken into account, because actually the whole world, not only the Council of Europe, appreciates these opinions. They set a reference level, even though the countries concerned do not apply to this to a large extent. However, this applies to countries that have terrible difficulties in applying high standards, and for which it is sometimes a huge leap, also mental. And now I'm going to go to our bill. The question was whether the Court would go. It will, it will, it will, but to a limited extent, in addition, it seems to me that to the extent that it will be easy to control by the parliamentary majority, because there are still many possible brakes, so that the Court can be incapacitated or slow down in a rather arbitrary way. There were reasons for this: the case of chronology, the high quorum for the full composition, the possibility of delaying the hearing twice in case of opposition of 4 judges, etc., etc. By the way, I forgot to ask you this, and it's interesting: what's the order of adjudication? Does such a deferral mean that for three months or six months there will be stillness? It's okay. [[Well, not really...]] It could be like this, maybe. In short, ladies and gentlemen, there was something to forgive. And in my opinion, this regulation is being conducted... I do, for example. In comparison with Senator Czerwinski's assessment, another assessment. This regulation is generally intended to pretend to solve the problem and is primarily intended to be on the internal market, i.e. to fake it in front of a part of the public, to show good will. With regard to the international opinion, it will be much more difficult to do this, especially in view of the very clear opinion of the Venice Commission, which is true to the previous law, but the differences between these laws are small and relate to easily comparable numbers. Certainly, both the Venice Commission and we must say that one condition has been fulfilled, one important thing has been done in this law, namely the ordinary majority in the ruling, as the article says. 69 laws. There is no doubt that this is done right as it should be. However, the remaining parameters, even the reduced parameter... the descent from the majority of 13 judges to 11 judges, as regards the minimum number for the so-called full squad... However, this still allows for quite any inhibition of the work, as well as the possibility for a small group of judges to object, which causes a large double delay. It provides the possibility of paralysis where it needs to be. Therefore, this law cannot be judged positively, above all by us, by the voters, but also by the international groups, which, as we have seen, are not as stupid as some thought. So I think this regulation creates appearances. It creates appearances for the internal market, still causing paralysis or rather creating a possibility of paralysis 'Cause we don't know how it's gonna go, how it's gonna be, what things are gonna affect, which ones are gonna be controversial, which are relatively neutral, and how it's gonna work with the so-called. the required order of consideration. So that's what we're gonna find out. But nothing good can be expected here. Therefore, all the criticism that has taken place here is justified. This is also about the procedure of passing the bill... But I don't want to go back to that. Finally, I would like to make two more points. I would like to say that I am making amendments to the article. 28, i.e. the one concerning the participants in the proceedings. Although I know that the committee has already tabled one fundamental amendment, that is to say, it extends the participation of the Ombudsman in a sort of general way, i.e. that it will be able, at its request, to participate in any case. However, I, to a wider extent, with regard to articles which specifically referred to the Ombudsman, namely Article. 82 and 89, I'm making amendments. Finally, I would like to address your marshal because I have heard that the Committee for the Defence of Democracy has placed a letter in the hands of Marshal Karczewski concerning the content of the bill under consideration and the procedure for this act. First of all, I would like to ask whether it is true, and secondly, I would like to ask your marshal if it would be possible to introduce the Senate members before voting on the bill with this letter or the letter, if that is what I am saying, because I am not sure. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u188	Thank you, Senator. I am unable to answer your questions to me, and I am currently not a participant in this debate. I will address the next meeting of the Senior Convention with such an inquiry and ask for the letter to be delivered to all if, of course, it is announced. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! [[Senator Gogacz, you're welcome.]] I would also like to draw attention in this discussion to the fact that we are very little talking about what is in print No 242 A, which is where the amendments are. There is everything that happened between the law that was adopted by the Sejm and our procession. And a lot has happened because in the meantime there have been two joint committees: the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee. And these committees have responded positively to many suggestions or criticisms that we find in opinions that have also been presented here today. I am referring to the opinions of the National Council of Courts, the association of Ordo Iuris, the Supreme Bar Council, the National Chamber of Legal Counsels and many, many others, who have paid attention to certain provisions which, in their view, are not in line with the Constitution or make a big confusion between the three Supreme Authorities, that there is simply confusion in the three divisions of the authorities. And I'd like to get your attention right away. If you have this yellow print in front of you for the first of these major amendments. I mean the amendment concerning the article. 12 where paragraph 1 is deleted. 2. This amendment was tabled by two senators from the Civic Platform, Senator Zientarski and Senator Shark, independently of each other. And two senators from the PiS: Professor Seweryński and I. This amendment aims to ensure that no countersignation or agreement from the President is necessary to remove the judge from the position of the Constitutional Tribunal under disciplinary penalty. It was a widely criticised solution, it was pointed out that there would be confusion in the three divisions of the authorities. When we read into opinions, we see that these are very deep opinions, these are very deep analyses that reach the Article. The Constitution of paragraph 144. 2, where it is said that the President's consent would be in the form of a provision rather than a prerogative. At the moment when the President's consent is through a resolution, it requires a countersignation of the Prime Minister. And since it requires the Prime Minister's countersignal, it means that the executive authority is involved. And since executive authority is mixed up, the Sejm is also mixed up because the President of the Council of Ministers is accountable to the Sejm. And that's what we were told. We have introduced this amendment and no one has noticed it, even though the opinions sent before we have tabled the amendment have pointed out that this is a bad bill, because that is what is not there. And the second important amendment, which was also tabled independently by the two same senators, i.e. by two two, concerns the article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 in our orange print. It is said that, at the request of the President, a time limit is set for the hearing, that if the President so requests, such a time limit shall be set. In the opinions we received, there was widespread criticism of this solution. In a deep analysis, the article was also referred to. 144 constitutions. We called it in. That is not enough, in place of this article, we have proposed to insert an article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a, where we give a very large right to the President of the Court. No one noticed that. There was, however, a point to be made when it comes to Amendment 3, which we tabled in Article. 16 words at least replace... And it was just an analysis that was carried out, that it was just something bad, because then the judge could report himself. If there were such a situation that there would be such a distribution of votes that of the 15 judges of the Court it would not be possible to generate a candidacy which would have more than one vote in favour of it, it would mean that something was not right. I don't think there's a problem with having three candidates, each with more than one vote. This, of course, can be analyzed in all ways. From all the more important voices... Ah, there was a general criticism of what the article was about. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9, alleging that we remove the Ombudsman from participating in the ruling that only after certain requirements have been met will he be able to participate in this ruling. It is easy to participate, under this law, in the judgment of constitutional actions, but cannot participate in cases which have been brought as applications to the Court. We just crossed out. I think the whole 2 committees voted regardless of political colors. The words concerning a constitutional complaint. So that the RPO can just participate in all of this. Of course there's more. But we've only changed it gently, because as for the essence of things, it remains the same article. 91, which says that all judgments passed after nine o'clock, from ten o'clock... So, in our record, there's a proposal that all judgments, except for those standards that no longer apply... And it is clear that if this law enters into force, the remaining standards will not apply. There was a great deal of recourse to why three judges were not sworn in, etc. Now that we're going back to history, we also need to remember that, ladies and gentlemen, there's been an episode. If you'd like to access the search engine... Following the election of 5 judges on 2 December, after the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment on 3 December, on 4 December Members of the Civic Platform and the Ombudsman, Mr Bodnar brought an action before the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the annulment of 5 Judges of 8 October and the election of 5 Judges of 2 December. And what happened to the complaint? At its secret sitting on 7 January, the 10-person court ruled that the legal status of the Tribunal does not allow the Constitutional Court to assess the matter, i.e. that the legal status of the Court does not allow the Court to take a position on the matter. And he just canceled the complaint. A separate sentence or opposition was made, among others. President Rzepliński. But since the Constitutional Tribunal decided so at its meeting on 7 January and announced it on 11 January, it means that it somehow legitimized such a situation that these 5 judges were chosen correctly and the others were not, because it was the legislative authority, in the hands of the Sejm. The Sejm shall make choices concerning individual acts and the Court shall assess the legal standards. Hence, if history were to be reached, it could be noted that on 3 December this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal was not in its entirety. It should be recalled, however, that on 25 November the Constitutional Tribunal issued an order that it would rule in full composition. It turned out that he then adopted a provision that he could not be fully represented, because three judges, including Judge Rzepliński, Vice President and Judge Tuleja, participated in the legislative process. At this point, it would be good to consider some provisions which would make it impossible, however, for such situations to arise, that the Court is suddenly unable to rule in full because some of the judges were involved in the legislative process at that time. And that's for sure... As far as the article is concerned. 137 of this bill, which... Well, ladies and gentlemen, the bill was prepared from 2013 to 2015. When the hearing of the Constitutional Tribunal took place on 3 May, the Constitutional Tribunal, the judge well known here, the former senator, asked the representative of the applicants: when this article was introduced. 137? Art. 137 was introduced in May or June, at the last moment. It was introduced only to enable certain actions. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the President of the Republic of Poland swore these 5 judges after 8 October and had the right to do so, on 8 October the Sejm would have elected 5 judges who could have already been sworn in. At that point, the legal force of the Article would be exhausted. 137 and he would have just been voided by now, because the task would have already been completed. And perhaps the authors of this entry from the article. 137 hoped that the President would take the oath, there would be 5 judges, and then the Court would not settle this because this standard, according to which he was determining the standard of Article. 137, no longer valid. And I'm paying attention to one more thing, because I think I'm running out of time, aren't I? I would like to draw attention to one more thing. It would be good to ask if there was ever a case in history in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal, in the case of applications, in the case of complaints... Namely, I would like to point out that this is something amazing, so that the authors of the 2015 Act themselves are mainly about art. They asked the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility of this law with the Constitution. [[It's bragging. It's bragging.]] They reported it themselves. They were, of course, members of the PiS, but they withdrew from this proposal, but such a proposal, without any changes, identical, was brought by Members of the Civic Platform. Of course, as regards the Members of the PiS, there is a justification, because they were in opposition, they voted against it, but the Members of the Civic Platform voted in favour of it and at the same time ran to the Court with a complaint, with a motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u190	Mr. Senator, would you please... [[Thank you very much.]] [[It's logical, actually.]] Thank you very much. Senator Adam Gawada. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing an important law on the Constitutional Court, and often here instead of a substantive discussion, we have heard or heard from the opposition, I would say directly, accusations or a number of insinuations and unconfirmed opinions on the often given unconstitutionality of this law or alleged unconstitutionality. And for the question I have asked in the course of asking the senators of the minority's requests to indicate errors or inconsistencies or provisions which undermine the fundamental principles of the law, I have not heard a single argument supported by facts. I, in this discussion or in these questions, gave an argument of bias, giving in my opinion too much discretion to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. And here from the senator, I didn't hear the answer to the grounds for the applicants either. The amendment concerned the article. 26. But even if it were to be assumed that this proposal is constitutional and refers to the law, then the argument that our law or proposals contained in the parliamentary law are unconstitutional is unfounded. In today's debate, instead of arguments, such extremely loud accusations were made to the initiators of this bill. It is recalled here that the Constitutional Tribunal will oppose the reforms introduced by the Government of Law and Justice. That's what we're assuming. We think that was the intention. Since the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Rzepliński, sees his presence at a political rally in front of the Sejm and the Senate, not at the Court's seat, where his legal and constitutional place should be, we have the right to suspect that the good will to settle matters is not only accompanied by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, but also by the opposition. It is obvious that the president is sympathetic to the Platform. Since the senators point to the alleged consequences of bad actions and critical opinions of the legal community, I have the right to ask a question. How do constitutional tribunals and similar constitutional control bodies in the countries of the European Union work? I took the liberty of preparing very brief information, a presentation for the Senate's plenary session. The Constitutional Council established by the Constitution of the V Republic in 1958 operates in France. It consists of 9 members appointed by the President, 3 appointed by the President of the Senate, 3 appointed by the President of the National Assembly for 9 years. A third of the membership of the Constitutional Council is exchanged every 3 years. The President of the Council shall be appointed from among its members by the President of the Republic at the request of the Government. The President shall have a casting vote in the event of an equal number of votes in the vote. The Board may be composed of Of course, the former presidents of the Republic will enter for life at the discretion of the President. So far, it has benefited from such privilege or the powers of five former presidents. Quorum is 7 out of 9 judges. Under Polish conditions, according to the provisions of the Act, it would be, pro rata, 12 out of 15. This is a simple mathematical calculation. The practice of separate sentences is explicitly rejected in French legislation. What powers does the Constitutional Council have? Its remit is to review the constitutionality of laws, regulations of chambers and international agreements. The audit shall be mandatory in the case of organic laws and regulations of the Chambers, at the request of the Prime Minister or optional, at the request of the President, the Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Chambers, and since 1974 at the request of 60 Members or 60 Senators. The audit is prior to the adoption of the President's signature. It's either the next one or the next one. Competency check. The Council shall examine whether the laws adopted by Parliament do not fall within the remit of the Government. I'm not going to talk about the other responsibilities because of a small amount of time. In the Federal Republic of Germany there is a Federal Constitutional Tribunal, established in 1951, based in Karlsruhe. The Court shall consist of 16 Judges elected once for a 12-year term. Half of the Bundestag is elected by the Bundestag, and half of the Bundesrat, by a majority of 2/3 votes, of course the Republic is different in character... While the Bundestag makes a direct choice, judges are elected in the Bundesrat in two stages. First, the House elects 12 electors, of which a minimum of 8 must support the candidate. Of the 8 judges elected by each House of Parliament, three are judges with a minimum of three years' experience in the highest federal courts. The other five don't have to be judges, but they have to have a law degree. The Federal Constitutional Tribunal shall deal with cases in two court, eight-member or full court. The President shall appoint a parliament. The President and Vice-Presidents of the Court shall sit in the other Senates, which they shall chair at the same time. So much for the Federal Constitutional Court. His powers are very similar... This is the settlement of disputes of competence. In view of the different structure of the State there is a settlement of disputes between the federal states and the Federation concerning their mutual relations and division of powers and the Federation's supervision of the federal states. I will also mention constitutional complaints and responsibility for the violation of the Constitution by the President, judges and political parties. These things have happened in the history of Germany. In Italy, the Constitutional Tribunal consists of 15 judges elected for 9 years after 1/3 by: President, both chambers of parliament By a majority of 2/3 in the first 3 rounds and 3/5 in the remaining .. and the higher administrative judiciary. The term of office shall apply to each of the Judges and not to the entire Tribunal. There's no re-election of the judge. The President of the Tribunal shall be elected for three years, with the possibility of re-election, but no longer than nine years. With regard to the scope of competence, prior control concerns regional law and is carried out at the request of the government and subsequent control Federal law and is carried out at the request of the regional authorities. It's also worth a look. In order to have a look at the legislation of the countries of the European Union, I cited only three examples of the classification of constitutional courts in terms of their creation, competence and performance. As far as creation is concerned, executives play a central role. E.g. in Austria and Turkey, the members shall be appointed by the Head of State. In the case of Belgium and Slovakia, candidates for appointment are proposed by the Senate. In the case of the Czech Republic, the Senate shall authorise the election. There is also a division in the scope of the dispersal of nomination rights. The composition is set up in 1/3 by the president, 1/3 by the joint chambers and 1/3 by the higher judiciary. This is the case for Italy and Bulgaria. In analysing all of these data, which are very briefly presented on the functioning of this legislation in the countries of the European Union, we should draw attention to the fact that in this High House we are bringing forward far-reaching arguments regarding the comparison of our proposal for a law... I would like to say that, in my deep conviction, the picture that appears in connection with the proposal for a law discussed today is a picture of a very good regulation, which takes into account all aspects, including those concerning and certain cadence, and the functioning of the most important bodies of the state. So, despite all the craziness. That's how I'd put it. During the debate and many words, in my deep conviction of the opposition's unnecessary statements, I would ask a rhetorical question: how different is the law that we are debating from the fundamental legal regulations adopted by the countries of the European Union mentioned earlier? Nevertheless, I am pleased that there have also been substantive arguments in today's debate on the part of the opposition. Although they were few, they give hope for an agreement on this law, because in the case of such an important act on compromise it is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u192	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators and Lord... No, gentlemen. No, there's one lady. [[I'm here.]] Every time I stand here, I get nervous because I think senators are strict judges of every speech. At the same time, I am very pleased with the discussion that is taking place here on such an important and important institution for the construction of democracy as the Constitutional Tribunal. I have to tell you, the fact that we have different opinions doesn't even bother me. I am very pleased with this, and I respect the opposition senators for that too. I think this is a beautiful example of building democracy. We must remember that we are a young democracy and we have the right to mistakes. I'm not saying we're doing everything right. Maybe some things didn't work out a bit, but that's the rule. Rule is about making decisions. That's what we've decided. The fact that we have different opinions is for me the building of this beautiful Polish democracy. We've been arguing since June. The former representatives of the European Commission, the Venice Commission, were very concerned about the state of democracy in Poland. But please pay attention to the relativism of the same representatives. Although perhaps only the President of the European Parliament Martin Schulz spoke decisively On the situation in Turkey. For him, there is no democracy problem in Turkey, vice versa: democracy has been saved. That means people's death, the closure of judges, prosecutors or the current ban on academic teachers from leaving the country. All of this is not for the President of the European Parliament to destroy democracy, but to protect it. Of course, I don't agree with that. The situation in Turkey worries me very much and I feel sorry for the people who have been hurt. At the same time, I am pleased that we can compare situations and see this relativism of the European Parliament, and I think that the opposition should also look at the Court's problem and the crisis around it differently. I think there is no such problem and crisis. What it is is a normal discussion in a democratic state of law. Let us look at another example: the elections in Austria. Do you think that the Austrian court, if there were the same reservations to the local elections in 2014 and the current elections for the President of Austria, would contest the 2014 local elections? I'm afraid so. I can say that this relativism in looking at different countries, making this look dependent on their assessment and importance in the European Union, is difficult to accept by as young democracy as ours, which is hard to build democracy. I appeal to the opposition senators: let us build this democracy together. I value your opinion. I appreciate the fact that you often have a different opinion. It's not like it doesn't affect our future decisions. But I am glad that in a serious atmosphere, in an atmosphere of discussion, in an atmosphere of striving to build a beautiful democracy in Poland we can discuss here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u194	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In December, we voted on the Constitutional Court Act. It turned out that at the next meeting of the Constitutional Tribunal, this law was not taken into account at all. It was like it wasn't made. I'm going to say that after this procedure, I thought we were being treated like shit, because Members and Senators and Mr President were actually ignored. It's been said that we're dictators. Sure, 460 Members, 100 Senators are dictators, and one President of the Constitutional Tribunal is of course not a dictator. I really liked the senator's statement that if a car were to be repaired by some mechanic and this car would be badly repaired, this car's mechanic shouldn't have been repaired for the second time. In June, you guys turned out to be the kind of mechanics who put sand in the tank. Then it blocked it all out. That's what you're talking about. As it turned out, there was a chance that you wouldn't have your president, and that you didn't know how your power would be, you had to make sure that there was someone who was gonna block everything. Right now, there's a chance we can get out of this mess. I hope you will, and you will be working on a bill that will enable work and the Constitutional Court and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u196	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! Dear colleagues! High Izbo! It seems to me that the dispute we are debating can be divided into three layers. The first is the substantive layer. I would like to remind you of what I said today during the committee meeting, asking the Minister, as well as the rapporteur Senator, President of Severinski. I asked, abstracting from political differences, why we don't talk about a purely substantive layer, because in this haste, which is characteristic of You know that, and you know it. All legislative actions of the last few months of the majority of Law and Justice, your colleagues from the Sejm have reached the bill, which has been criticised on each side for the last few years. And you have also seen that she is already obsolete, evil. Why there is no minimum intellectual effort to... of course I am against, for purely political reasons, the change in the Court's seat, the reduction in its role. Why couldn't we at least do the things that the 2015 law was just doing? You know what it's like to be in a restaurant... [[We don't go to a restaurant.]] [[Voice from the room: There they eavesdrop.]] Mr. Senator Ryszka, of course... [[Mr. Senator, don't return...]] I'm gonna give a few sentences to what you said... [[Let's not determine who goes to a restaurant and who doesn't go to a restaurant...]] ...but thank you for the hint that you've never been to a restaurant in your life. I recommend you go, they eat well, sometimes cheap. So... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] So... [[...don't get into the discussion.]] ...I'd like to tell you that I can explain, Senator Ryszko... [[Ryszka.]] Ryszka doesn't change, right? Excuse me. [[It's changing...]] ...that if you go to a restaurant and you get a bad meal, you're in a fight and you resent the waiter. The dish is prepared by the cook. And gentlemen, you're in this situation, you've told me and thank you for your involuntary help. Now I can explain. That the Sejm cooked it and you came here with this dancing, and it's really bad. [[And the Seym in June...]] It's really bad. It's really bad. I'm going back to the article. No one here is gonna accuse me of anything, because it's art. 26 is basically just fatal. It was repaired in this 2015 law, because there is no single-person composition mentioned there. What is so difficult to say that the Court can rule as a single member on certain matters that are later exchanged? Is this some kind of political change? Is this the change that overturns this bill? No. Art. 37 point 6: After stating that the complaint had been lodged within the time limit, the President of the Court directs it to the examination of the two-instant action, that is the two-instant review that this law restores. If you can bring it in or you can't bring it in. After finding that the complaint had been lodged within the time limit, the President of the Court shall refer it to the Court's secret hearing and set a time limit for its examination. How is the president gonna set a timeline for reconnaissance, if these judges, yours, are gonna get a case for reconnaissance and they're gonna have to prep it, they're gonna have to digest it? The president's the one who sets the deadline for them? They have some influence, things. Whoever was in court I'm looking at Senator Counselor Silence here, but I think we've all been to court. It knows that this is basically the basis. I'm talking about small things that could be fixed. Now I'm gonna talk about art. 49. [[Please make such an amendment.]] Mr Senator, I have said these amendments three times: in this Chamber and in two committee meetings, and during the work of the committee I have not found support for this. Today, I specifically asked Senator Sewerinski, in my respect. That he knows well. And in view of the fact of many years of cooperation, because I do not want to make amendments that have no chance of supporting them. Why? And besides, it's your duty to look at things even small and correct them if anyone tells you. It was a long time ago. There's art. 49, paragraph 2: the time limit laid down in Article shall not run until the court has decided on the application. 47. It's kind of a suspension term. I would like to say to the senators that many representatives, because it was written in 1997 in an indolent way, does not understand it, there are plenipotentiaries who believe that it does not run at all. He's just suspended. Simple little things. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Art. 60: At the hearing, the Court shall examine the applications in the cases referred to in Article. 3. It's just that because it was a bad law in this regard, the 1997 law, which said that it also recognized... [[Mr. Senator, we've got half a minute.]] Thank you very much. I understand they all fit in 10 minutes. Then I'll finish in the next five minutes... [[Yeah, I think they fit. We'll write that down, Mr. Senator.]] ...if your marshal would like me to stop saying that now. Well, there's art. 4, which states that: "any court may present a legal question to the Court as to the compatibility of a normative act with the Constitution." So what? Well, that was implied... The Minister said this today, of course, that this was the case. Well, if it's obvious, then you can't. Was there a change in that? Why? [[Time's up, Senator.]] Then save me for the next five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u198	Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators and Mr Senator! I want to start by quoting that statement. It circulates, and in Poland, and between us The will of the nation is the supreme law. Hans Frank wrote this sentence in 1935. Turkey problem. Yes, there is a problem with Turkey, a huge problem with Turkey, concerning the internal situation of the international situation, but above all the internal situation. Well, President Erdoğan thinks that his group won the election, so he can do basically anything because he has a democratic mandate. If we believe that this should be the case, the effects will be the same as in Turkey. And these effects are very bad for Turkey. In addition to the will of the nation, which is shown in democratic elections free, equal, five adjectives, the rule of law, compliance with the law, and especially the constitution, which is the highest law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I am surprised that the Law and Justice have decided to make some important amendments to this Constitutional Court Act, that it is not the same as before, when what the Sejm adopted passed to us immediately and was passed without amendments. Now the Senators of Law and Justice have tabled amendments that are moving in a positive direction on a number of important issues. First of all, I am referring to the resignation of the President's intervention, i.e. the violation of the principle of three divisions of authorities, the indication by the President of the possibility of consideration outside the order, as well as the final decision on the removal of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. These were really serious shortcomings of this law, this draft law, which adopted the Sejm, also with the voices of Law and Justice, with the opposition of the Civic Platform. So... And, of course, there is also a reduction in the ceiling of the full composition. So here's what I'm going to say: in many places there's a consensus proposal and a way out against those critics who haven't been listened to so far. 'Cause the criticism... In fact, all legal institutions, lawyers, lawyers, the National Council of Courts, the Ombudsman, etc., including the entire opposition, all of them in turn criticized those solutions which were clearly unconstitutional. And I want to see it because that's what you have to see. I thought we were going to proceed with this bill at the previous sitting, but I know that the order came from Nowogrodzka and here we are proceeding two weeks later. And I think it was a reasonable order, good. I also believe that the Venice Commission, which you are criticizing, did not have an impact on this. Even though it was the Minister of Foreign Affairs, your minister, asked for an opinion and invited the Venice Commission here. It didn't have any effect either. The European Commission is clear to me. Because how much does the European Commission have in mind? However, President Obama, who expressed his concerns in the diplomatic language, and this is a serious concern about what is happening around the Court, also pointed out by the judiciary and the media. Yeah, but right now we're discussing the Court. And that's the concern. Even though I've heard it's similar everywhere, especially in the United States, where there's also a problem with the Supreme Court judge... Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't President Duda who spoke to President Obama on this matter, although since we are so concerned or rather if you are so concerned, he should do so. But President Obama was speaking publicly to President Duda during the press conference. And regardless of the translation of his words, his description of them, this matter was clear. I am therefore pleased that external forces have been effective. Because we here, the opposition, and all the legal stuff I mentioned, we're inefficient. But that doesn't mean I see good changes. That doesn't mean this bill is good. There are certain fuses in there that will make it possible to paralyze, paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. This is at least twice the motion of the 4 judges, which will put the case off by 3 months first, and then, if the 4 judges repeat it again, by the next 3 months, which is 6 months already. That's the fuse. Such a fuse is also the fact that the Court is to deal with matters in accordance with the influence of... Of course, there is also an important exception to the fact that the order of procedure will also be affected by the President of the Court, but in special cases. In special cases. Well, there's also a rule of choice for judges of the Tribunal according to the alphabet, in a situation where there are specialists in labour law, criminal law, etc., after all, no judge or lawyer is an omnibus... Someone from labour law will get something they don't know about, i.e. Which he's not a specialist at. I'm looking at it from a substantive point of view, and I'm surprised. It shouldn't matter to the PiS, because it doesn't stop the procession, but it can lower the standards of judgment. So, unfortunately, there are many bad solutions left, which simply make it very difficult to accept this law. Well, even if the election of the President of the Court is so defined at the moment, it is known who will be elected. One of these recently nominated judges will be elected, because if there's one vote and three candidates... Three candidates, one vote, 15 over 3 is five, right? So we know it's one of those three, not the other two. It's kind of a minor change that's gonna make the president actually determine... [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] ... the President of the Court. So despite all this, despite the improvement of the project, I find it difficult to agree with the statement that it is a good bill. And talking about how we're gonna have a better bill in the future, it's like talking about... We heard this when we were discussing proposals for the Radio and Television Act First a small bill, then a bigger one, and then we'll have such a beautiful, better, more complex one. So it will be difficult to vote in favour of this law, even though I see positive elements and positive impacts here. Not our voices and our discussions, but President Obama, for which I would like to thank him.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u200	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Zbigniew Cichonia.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As in any case, so now I call for the proper proportions to be maintained during the evaluation of the matter we are considering, because just a moment ago I heard so far-reaching speeches, and it was from the lips of my esteemed colleague, Mr. Senator, your patron... [[She's cute.]] Pardon, I missed the name of my esteemed colleague, but I'm gonna remember and say it. [[Oriental.]] Please? [[Oriental.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, He referred to the beautiful theory of German lawyer and philosopher Radbruch, by twisting his name, of which he would certainly not be satisfied with the sacred memory of Radbruch. He actually created a theory that allowed us to avoid applying the law of the totalitarian system, calling the German Reich's legislation an appearance of law, or something that was lawless dressed in the robes of the law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, gentlemen.]] I think it was too far-reaching a comparison, even unfavorable... Ladies and gentlemen, we may even be offended by this type of comparison and the use of such analogies. Of course, this bill, like any other act, cannot be condemned in the clan, as Senator Zientarski would like to do and many of his previous speakers, nor can it certainly be a subject of delight, at least for me, as a lawyer. Because normally, as a lawyer, I'm critical of any kind of legislative activity, not to mention the one that's sometimes with me when I'm a senator. And it doesn't happen often, although I'm a senator for a second term. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, those who are criticizing this bill forget to highlight the advantages that are in it and which deserve recognition. I, as a lawyer of practice, first of all appreciate that what was positive was restored in the 1997 Act, such as the institution to file a complaint against a one-man judge's order to refuse to bring the case to an end. Unfortunately, on the occasion of the June 2015 amendment, the complaint institution was abandoned, a three-person settlement was introduced, but there is no complaint from it. And I remember being very surprised when I received such a refusal, I started dictating a complaint to the applicant, and I was just wondering if something had changed in this matter. Because the previous refusal was given by a 1-person composition, and here I can see that there is a 3-person composition. And it's a good thing I reached the bill. It turned out that the law had been amended and that the parties had been deprived of an effective remedy which would allow for the review of a judgment given on the inadmissibility of further proceedings. And this is a certain procedural guarantee, which should, however, exist. Because no one is infallible, whether it's a one-man court or a three-person court. Although it can be said that the likelihood of a mistake by a three-person squad is less likely to be made than when 1 person is adjudicated. But that's no reason to give up the principle of duality at all on such an important issue as access to the Constitutional Tribunal. This solution is undoubtedly a plus. Ladies and gentlemen, the next solutions I consider to be positive, compared to the previous situation, are those relating to the departure from the rigid principle of the recognition of cases which affect the Court in order. I have already pointed out in discussions with colleagues that such a solution really did not deserve approval, because in a number of tribunals, there is always an exception to the rule. And here, too, one has been restored. And you're right. Just in the proposal for an amendment tabled by Senator Prof. Sewerinski and Senator Gogach. An exception to this principle has been introduced, allowing the President of the Court to derogate from that principle in very many cases, which makes the principle only a general formula which has a very narrow content for a good cause. In order not to say that this may lead to doubts as to whether this rule of recognition applies in order at all. The exception is so broad that it provides for a derogation for the President if this is justified by the protection of the freedom or rights of the citizen, the security of the state or the constitutional order. Well, especially the formula for the protection of citizens' freedoms or rights is so wide that practically everything can be drawn up under this concept and thus be removed from the principle of the recognition of cases according to order. This principle was expressed as a kind of opposition to such a practice, often perceived as defective, that some cases were recognized very quickly, even expedite, and some cases were waiting to enter the vocabulary for 2, 3 years and longer. So that the solution introduced here is undoubtedly a big plus and deserves to be accepted. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the concerns raised by the opposition, as regards the fact that there are provisions on the judges' assemblies, are, in particular, about the composition of the 11-persons, which may cause the Court to be unable to gather and act, are, so to speak, flaming. Consider that the 11-person composition is quite a large composition. It's almost improbable that 4 out of 15 judges come across some obstacles to the case and that an 11-person team cannot be completed. Consider, too, that there is a slight difference between you and what was adopted in the June 2015 Act, when you ruled that country, you were a group that had power. There was a nine-man squad back then. Consider, too, that the circle of cases that would be dealt with as an 11-person team is very narrow. There are only 10 cases listed here. These are very rare cases. It goes on for example. the compatibility with the constitution of the activities of political parties or disputes between bodies. One of the most important issues is the one we are discussing, that is, the matter concerning the regulation of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Yeah, but given the rank of the case, it's okay... Ladies and gentlemen, if the Court's compositions are to be hailed at all In the June 2015 Act there was also such a gradation, there were different warehouses, ranging from 9-person, to 5-persons, etc. It is difficult to make an accusation that a somewhat systemic case concerning the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal is intended for the largest judicial formation, i.e. 11 persons. Consider the fact that this rule does not apply to other cases, because most cases are intended for a 5- or 3-person composition. Let's not make a storm in a glass of water, and let's not raise it as a fundamental problem, when in a purely statistical sense and in terms of the substance of the case... As far as statistics are concerned, this is marginal, and as far as the merits of the case are concerned, it is justified that such a composition, most importantly, so to speak, representative, largest, ruling on the assessment of compliance with the constitution of the law that we are adopting today. Like I said, I also have some doubts and some reservations, because I'm not a hurrahoptimist. I see some kind of regulatory risk, let's call it intertemporal, i.e. transitional law, which is to apply in connection with the amendment of the law. Regulation which is contained in Article. There may be some doubts about this, because most often the principle is that the new law applies to matters. This is what the legislator accepts, which appear after its adoption, and the old... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] I'm almost done. ... The old law applies to matters that are pending. Therefore, there may be some doubts here, especially where there is a requirement to adapt the composition to the provisions of the new law. What if the Court had already had a sitting but postponed the adjudication of the judgment? The question is, what do I do? In that case, is the Court to pronounce a judgment in a new composition, even though it worked in another narrower composition? Well, that would be absolutely unfair and unfair. You might be accused of being an illegal team because there are judges who didn't take part in the case. Then it would be necessary to resume the proceedings, and this law is silent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u202	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am, as always, when we give an opinion on legal acts relating to such a large institution as the Constitutional Tribunal, in a dysfunctional situation. I'm not a lawyer and I listen to the legal language of my fellow senators. I like it very much. Of course, I don't understand any of this, but I'm trying to figure out what's going on here. I don't have it, of course. And here I am addressing my voters, the Poles who are watching us, the slightest doubts that we are as a country in a very difficult situation, because in my opinion and in the opinion of my environment, as well as the newspapers that I am reading, the Constitutional Tribunal will be incapacitated despite the amendments made, which I welcome with joy. Let me put it this way: I felt awful that night when I had to perform at 4:00 p.m., shocked by this terrible speed of establishing the Constitutional Court Act, and I thought it wouldn't work. And of course it didn't work. The Venice Commission has arrived. I think it's a mistake... If the Minister of Government cannot cope with the verdict of the Venice Commission, he should in theory be dismissed, but this is a completely different matter. Of course, then with pain, Mrs. Marshal, I was painful to hear this gentle poking of our President by President Obama. I didn't like it as a Pole. I gave it an expression, of course... Now, all of a sudden, before this performance. I thought I could hit it, but it turns out it's lucky I didn't. Namely, I took care of the article. 12 who said that Mr. President... He said, "I'll tell you right away." That the President may not agree to the expiry of the judge's term of office... [[I mean...]] Wait, I know it's changed, Mr. Senator Silence from my town; you think I'm an intelligent man, you know my IQ, don't you? [[But there's a change...]] Yes, but someone wrote it, Mr. Senator, someone wrote it. I think that the lawyer or the Member who called it in and the committee that did it... There may be a situation that a disciplinary lawyer, a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, may remain unleashed because the President of the Republic will not accept it. After all, this is a blow to the supreme authority of authority. Fortunately, as it turns out, Members of the Civic Platform, am I right, Senator Zientarski? They've tabled an amendment... [[No, the Platform Senators.]] [[She was rejected by the Sejm.]] ...which was rejected in the Seym, which means, Senator Professor Severinski... [[Quiet, please.]] ...the Sejm has decided that the President has that right after all. Luckily there's the Senate. We are people, Senator, experienced, and we are aware of this terrible mistake. And I wish it was a mistake, but I think it was some kind of diversion to our president. Because this amendment was made by Senator Sewerinski, Senator Gogach, Senator Ziientarski and by... Give me a hint. [[And you, Senator Shark.]] ...and yet by Senator Shark, so I, of course, no longer make such an amendment. I am glad that it existed, but unfortunately, as I said earlier, I have no doubt: we are heading towards a country which will not have an appeal body against very serious decisions, and if it does, it will be an organ, I will say gently, incapacitated. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[No wonder the actor. No wonder.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u204	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski. This is the first performance... [[Second 5 minutes.]] Second appearance? It's five minutes, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Two or three points I would like to raise. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are discussing the law in the form in which it came to the Senate, on the amendments that we are reporting again and which were largely tabled by the opposition, in particular by the Civic Platform, and were rejected in the Sejm. We cannot be excused from discussing the shape of this very wrong, unlawful law, we cannot limit the discussion simply because the committees have already adopted... We don't know what her fate will be. For now, we know that these amendments Because I stress that these are not new... all these amendments were rejected by the Sejm. I now address Senator Silence. Mr. Senator, you're a lawyer, a very good, experienced lawyer. You presented the advantages of this bill here. I understand from the lawyer that the D.A. is accusing, and the defense attorney is only pulling positives. I understand that. I understand that manner. But today, we're here, judging the whole thing, and the lawyer we're both members of, she's decidedly misjudged... And it was Professor Cardas, President of the Legislative Commission of the Supreme Bar Council, and Professor Gutowski, who made a clear statement that this is a law which is totally harmful, which is illegal and which is destroying And that's the position of attorney, and you can't forget that. Another argument is to realize... This is a new... this is an amendment that has been tabled here, although it seems not by the Platform either, but I think it was reported, just not in this form, in a slightly extended... The point is that the candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should report the legal framework, so that they do not report the same ones who choose to actually separate these candidates from politics, from the political background in the sense that they are reported by the same ones who choose them. And that is why it is a proposal that it is the Supreme Court that indicates the candidate, the Supreme Administrative Court, the legal grammar of the legal departments with habilitation rights, the Polish Academy of Sciences and the Polish Academy of Skills. I believe that this must be accepted, this is the amendment that needs to be accepted, because it would be a serious step forward. That is not enough, this issue was also raised by the Venice Commission and was proposed as a solution. And one last thing. With Senator Sztark and Senator Zdrojewska, we went outside and received a letter from the Coalition of Democratic Organizations addressed to the Senate Marshal asking the senators to get acquainted with this letter. And I will read this letter: We, citizens of the Republic of Poland protesting against breaking its law of the highest... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Is the time over? [[Yeah, it's over.]] [[Yes. You'll never read it again.]] [[It's been six minutes.]] Anyway, it's a protest against breaking the law. We demand that the highest organs of the state, including the Sejm majority, the President and the Government, cease to break the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u206	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Oremski. [[38 million signatures.]] [[I have to speak to her.]] [[38 million signatures.]] [[Three signatures on the cross.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, for starters, maybe a little note like that, I mean. I have this appeal not to invoke Turkey. And it's both sides. Because I believe that the Turkish issue will be very complicated, also for Polish foreign policy, for Polish security. I am convinced that the European game will consist in the fact that governments will be closer to Erdoğan and that parliaments will remind him of certain things, but let us not try to look for an analogy here, because this is the way to nowhere. We had a very interesting exchange of the restaurant experience of Senator Pociej with Senator Ryszka concerning this dish, which is this law. In my opinion, this dish is a little better seasoned than this dish from December of the previous year, but this is a dish that has been prepared, cooked, among others. by Senator Zientarski a year ago. Even then it could be said that this dish could not do anything good from the culinary side. And I think that's a pretty basic thing. It was a dish stuffed with 5 additional posts at the Constitutional Court. Now we have a problem with that, because here's the thing: we did something wrong, and right now we're complaining that it's not our way. Third point: the problem of international bodies. My experience is that legal interpretations, recourse to the rule of law in international bodies are, unfortunately, very often a screen for sympathy and political interests of factions and states. This is very often the case, so you have to worry about international criticism, but you have to approach it in a balanced and critical way. Because we often refer to the United States, I want to go back to the American problem. There's a term there: lame duck. The president, somewhere six months before the election, should not change important laws regarding the functioning of the state. Not after the lost elections or after the election decision, but six months before, even during the election campaign period. And now let's try to figure out what it was like with us. With us, the moment President Bronisław Komorowski loses, we change the bill and we're talking about five extra... As standard, even last year, in the Civic Platform, it is the ombudsman's chosen person with such very specific views that I would say very strongly left-wing. She will certainly be able to be the person who, in the event that politically this is not possible in the execution of political parties, will challenge certain laws to the Constitutional Tribunal. In the United States, there is a little less hypocrisy, although there is much less politics among Supreme Court judges. Before the nomination they are X-rayed, all their opinions are drawn, whether they are more right-wing or more left-wing. Who else do the Republicans choose, someone else the Democrats choose, when the president is one option or another. Often it depends on the composition, whether we have a decision of the Supreme Court pro-life or pro-choice. I am talking about this because I have the impression that our judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are often, on one side and on the other, much more involved in political life and political past. And now our dream of justice, of judicial decisions, also of the Constitutional Tribunal, although I realize that this is not exactly the third power... It is such a transparent glass where there are arguments of both sides, and the judge passes them and then makes an objective decision. But now it's like this. Let's not kid ourselves that each one of us is trying to be an honest person, but he has metaphorical views or was chosen because he has such views. And now let's see, this is just a tiny raid on this glass. If there is one such judge, if there are two such judges, then there may be some hesitation in less important matters or the impact is small. But if there are 14 or 10 chosen from one option, then what does this raid do? He's making a Venetian mirror. To get back to the Venetian term. Which means there's no more transmittance in the other direction. And that's the problem we're talking about. And now the second problem, this is the phenomenon observed by the late Supreme Court Judge of the United States Scalia. He believed that constitutional tribunals were being used to achieve objectives that could not be achieved by democratic means. Influential wealthy lobbyist groups can achieve their goals in the shorter way. Even if I understand the defence of our Constitutional Tribunal in the version of the CODE, PO or Modern, I do not perceive these manifestations of the CODE as a long-term defence of the essence of democracy, but rather as a deepening of its crisis. I quote Judge Scalia: the system of governance that governs the nation of the committee of lawyers does not deserve to be called democracy, and allowing the political issue of same-sex marriages This example is given by a specially selected aristocratic team of 9 judges, which is a violation of the principle that no society must be changed without the consent of its representatives. And further: there are no good solutions that can be scientifically proven. There are, however, those for which a specific society can stand at a given time. There is no reason to believe that educated lawyers can point to them better than doctors, engineers or ethics. It's too far-reaching for me, but she's showing me a problem. And the third trouble. Each organization has the ability to expand its own power. Brussels bureaucracy produces directives and resolutions but limits its own responsibility for them. Parliaments, including our Senate, regulate matters that should often be the competence of local governments. The Constitutional Tribunal, in turn, is ready to decide on the constitutionality of the frequency of revalorisation of pensions. We ourselves, when we discussed the budget, voted unanimously to increase our budget by PLN 2 million. It's the same mechanism. Each body strives to increase its own competences. In the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, it is extremely important to establish such a scope of competence as not to extend it. Then we would have a reverse situation, then we would be in danger of doing what we might call the Third Chamber of Parliament. Scalia warned against judicial activism justifying the stretching of the constitution to judge everything, treating the constitution as a living document differently interpreted at different times. Such a gateway is an excessive power of the Constitutional Tribunal incompatible with the intention of the constitution's creators. Scalia said the judge wasn't the law, neither was the priest God. The Constitution grants the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal the right to decide only what violates the basic law, so precision and moderate pluralism within that body are required. We must return to a certain balance, we must look at the matter of the Constitutional Tribunal not only from the outermost perspectives, from the perspective of our fears about what Barack Obama said about us. We need to see that this is a process that is taking place throughout Europe. In a few places, we have an imbalance in our understanding of democracy. I believe that the balance between our freedoms and security, the role of lawyers in defining the essence of democracy is a problem that needs to be considered. And going back to the gastronomic comparisons, I'd say yes. Well, we can still season it, but I think for a while this dish won't taste good, because at first the bad ingredients were given. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u208	Perfect, 10 minutes, Mr. Senator. Thank you very much. And there you go, Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This discussion has been going on for several hours and there have been very different arguments. I think what you did to Senator Silence... The senator, using the legal language, presented all the amendments that Prof. Seweryński and Senator Gogacz have tabled, partly responding to the expectations of the Venice Commission and partly to the expectations of the state. Unfortunately, Senator Zientarski has so little disregard for all these... I'm not going to discuss them, of course, because I'm not a lawyer, Senator Silence has given them a very strong legal justification. Anyway, Senator Zientarski said that some directives came in from Novgorodska, we're afraid of President Obama, and that's probably not the best part of the discussion. Senator Pociej, when a colleague on our side proposed that you propose amendments to make amendments, he said that he would not make any amendments, because this is generally the PiS-owska Act. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have also followed the statements of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, who was in Parliament and who has already announced in advance that this law will probably be unconstitutional. This is kind of a weird thing with Prof. Rzepliński, because he's probably the only president of the Constitutional Tribunal who flies around after TV, radio and tells us what it's like. I would expect from you the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, simply when this bill goes to him, if someone sues him, to speak in judgment, not run through television studios and not talk about something that has not even been completed in the legislative process, because, as Senator Zientarski rightly said, Everything is still open, it is possible to submit amendments and, of course, it is possible to accept them or reject them. That's one thing. Now, the second thing that really annoys me is to refer to the Venice Commission. I'm sorry to refer again to Senator Ziientarski's statement, but he has spoken most in this matter today. We hear all the time that the Venice Commission, the Venice Commission said this, the Venice Commission said that. Ladies and gentlemen, the Venice Commission has issued its opinion, which is not binding in any way, and different countries approach it differently. We have just taken some things into account through these amendments. However, the opinion of the Venice Commission is being treated here, I don't know, almost like some god, like some book revealed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Venice Commission has recommended that France not extend the state of emergency. The French Parliament has just extended this state for the next three months. Does anyone say that France is therefore an undemocratic country? No one looked at the opinion of the Venice Commission. Of course, it's probably also taken into account, but the interests of the country are the interests of the country. Let us remember that in the Venice Commission there are to a large extent people from outside Poland who do not know in detail the legal system in force in Poland and can relate to certain general cases, and yet many of these elements are included in the amendments that have been tabled by our senators. Now another argument, which shows some hypocrisy of the Senators of the Civic Platform, because you even cling, you can say, although it may be an ugly word, you even raise the question of changing the system of election of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Senator Zientarski said that even if someone gets one vote in this Court, it could also be presented to the President. Yes, that is the law, Senator, that it is you who elects the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. So? You're already, and priori assumes that you're prof. Rzepliński was always better than Mr Pszczółkowski, who is also a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal? [[The assembly chooses. The recipe indicates that the assembly chooses.]] No, the assembly indicates, does not choose, indicates, and it is the President who makes the final decision on who will be president of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[He's picking candidates.]] Yeah, he's picking the candidates, but it's the President who finally decides which one of these people will be president. And even if the judge who was chosen was chosen, so to speak, declared by the Law and Justice, and then elected, what would be wrong? We survived the President of Rzepliński... There's gonna be another president anyway. Why someone who's from another... Why should someone who is reported or elected by the Civic Platform be better than worse in advance? And here's what I'm going to say, a high level of hypocrisy. Senator Zientarski, of course, said that he was now proposing such an amendment so that candidates to the Constitutional Tribunal would report legal environments. But, ladies and gentlemen, who did you report? Remember? You reported your colleague from Wroclaw Kieres, who was no longer, nomen omen, senator It didn't bother you. And who is otherwise a good judge of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[When?]] When? Well... [[First of all, not us, and second of all, when.]] Okay. [[Don't discuss it, please.]] But it's not a matter of when. Well, he was a senator of the Civic Platform, no longer a senator, and he was sent to the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry, not directed, but chosen, because that would have to be said. Well, that's the facts, you could go back to history, couldn't you? [[Voice from the room: It was like this.]] Following the reasoning of Senator Ziientarski, one should say that in general the Venice Commission should do nothing but the President of the United States, because in the United States it is the President, not some judicial corporation, who appoints a person to the Supreme Court because there is no such thing as the Constitutional Tribunal. This role to some extent, although this is also an analogy, is played by the Supreme Court. And, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, let me just say two things. Even assuming you have all sorts of reservations about this bill... Because one piece of legislation is better, the other is worse, perhaps not all the provisions of this law are perfect. But there's one fundamental reason why it's just for this one reason. It would be worthwhile to adopt this law. I remember that when the government refused to publish these judgments, our interpretation was that they did not meet all the requirements so that they could be regarded as judgments, the various lawyers in various television studies poured out a lot of regrets that we were creating legal dualism. Even assuming this bill is recognised in some part of... Because I don't think it's 100%, since 90% this law is a 1997 law, which has been in operation for so many years, so it is difficult to consider it entirely unconstitutional, I cannot imagine it. But even assuming that the Constitutional Tribunal will question one or the other element of it, because probably the president's pressure to challenge it will be a lot... But even if we assume that this will be called into question, by adopting this law, ladies and gentlemen, we are able to... This law makes it possible to print these different other judgments, with the exception of, of course, that ruling annuls the earlier Court of Justice Act on substantive matters. And if, ladies and gentlemen, you do not want legal duality in Poland, if you so much want these substantive judgments concerning different cases, and if I am not mistaken, then perhaps 5 or 6 judgments in completely different cases have already been issued... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...by the Constitutional Court... For one reason or another, it is worth the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u210	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Alexander Comfort. [[Ad vocem first.]] [[Three minutes.]] The senator has five minutes, right? Because it's another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I know I have five minutes, but I'd like to... [[A little ad vocem, huh?]] Shortly ad vocem... 3 minutes, good. Mr. Senator... [[It's not like three minutes...]] ...without going into what you said, I would say that I deeply, deeply disagree with such a philosophy that the judges are yours or ours. I'm fighting this, not just in this room, and not just listening to the senators' statements on the right side of the political scene. I've fought it before, too, with my colleagues. It's not that, really, it's not that the judge of the Constitutional Court is a terrible idea. It's yours, it's ours. He presents certain values. It's in the Supreme Court... [[It's a cognitive discourse...]] Are you... [[There you go...]] No, no. My friends were just trying to say something. If you... [[I sighed, Mr. Senator.]] If the senator could ask Senator Wind not to interrupt me... [[Mr. Senator, I didn't even hear...]] I would very much ask you to intervene. [[It was a quiet sigh.]] [[Yes, sir.]] I almost got blown out of the podium by a quiet sigh. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Senator, look at me and think about whether I am, so to speak, weak strength. [[Mr. Senator, don't pay any attention to this. Proceed.]] I can't ignore such a well-deserved senator. [[I'm gonna go out and...]] [[Mr. Senator, you're welcome to continue.]] [[Professor...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'll go back to Senator Mroz's statement. The same is true of the Supreme Court of the United States. The truth is that every president, once a Democrat, once a Republican, directly nominates his... [[It's pointing.]] Yeah, it does. Of course. He has to go through... You're right. But that's the most common indication. end with a nomination. I absolutely agree with the fact that the Constitutional Tribunal has to some extent this role, the role of conscience. It was built like this... The term of office is... For many, many years, for the previous 2 terms, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, there were people who were from completely different political stories when it comes to nominations. It's gonna be the same here. I can assure you, knowing Senator Cioch, with whom I worked here for four years, watching Senator Beszczółkowski behave and how the Constitutional Tribunal is constructed... This nine-year term really closes what a lawyer can accomplish in his life. I am convinced that sooner or later, and it will be sooner, those former lawyers In fact, they weren't, because they were doing their job as senators or MPs to the end. They'll be independent. [[Mr. Senator, five minutes...]] Yes. Without entering into the merits of this discussion, I just want to point out: let's not say that the judges are from these or those, because it's between us. I finished my earlier statement that I was talking about three layers. I was talking about the substance layer, about regulations that could be calmly sedated. Now I want to end this because I didn't make it before. I will not make any amendments because I have heard twice that there is no political will in this matter. I'm not fooling around. I'm not gonna make any adjustments, since I heard it was said it was just gonna be like this. Mr. Senator Czerwiński spoke about the scope judgments and resented that the Constitutional Tribunal itself developed certain standards that are not written down. That's why I'm going back to everything I've told you. As for the mistakes that the Court was punishing itself, I asked you to write all this down here to change it, but no one listened to me. There's a second layer, a political layer. And you know very well, my dear colleagues, that art. 91, 92 and 68, the ones that talk about how it's gonna be... This is the decision of the Court, this is the judgment of 9 March. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 92 are the judges of the Court who have taken the oath. Well, you know what I mean. About the article. 68 won't even mention it because I don't have enough time. Well, these articles are made politically. I understand that this can be done, but I ask you not to argue by talking here that these are general, good directives. Because we all know that these are not general, good directives. No. They're... okay, they're punishing things. They force... e.g. Article 2 92 forces the President of the Court to allow judges to rule, but only these three. So, where are you guys talking about any kind of... change it so you can let everyone rule? That's what he was talking about earlier... And that's the amendment I was actually against because I don't like it. But do it so as to allow everyone to rule, not just the three who are from you, who are nominated by the new Sejm. And one last thing... [[You guys started it.]] For the time being, I hear... This is an argument used for over a year: you started. And here you tell me, Senator Rooster, that you started, he agreed with me... [[Right.]] I'm very happy for you, Senator. I just want to tell you that this is a situation like this when someone assaults someone and gets their head over their heads, and instead of coming and helping this man, you came and punched him twice, much harder. Well, it's not sanation, it's really not sanation. More: Now we are not only talking about those who are ruling at the Court, but there is a very powerful change in the position of the Constitutional Tribunal at all. I'm sure you can do that... I mean, you're doing it. You just have to realize that this is the solution. It's not for your term, it's for years. And this is the solution that moves our democracy... I don't want to say he's moving somewhere worse. It completely changes the model of functioning of the state. I think by reacting, even if you're right, to some excess... And here I am going back to Senator Czerwiński's speech again, because he said that in this room, too, this solution has come to an end. No, Mr. Senator, because we don't have the opportunity to choose the judges of the constitutional court. This solution was created in the Seym. In this respect, I do not agree with your statement. But I think it's a bad solution, it's for years, and we're going to live with it, probably very changed political arrangements in some time, and it's going to affect all of us, probably someday also on the side that today is the governing party. [[Mr. Senator...]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u212	Thank you very much. And Senator Robert Gawel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you ask an average Pole what the law is in Poland, and expect it to flowers in one word, he would probably say it's bad. Besides, for most Poles this law is incomprehensible. Because when we look at the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as the disputes concerning the Court itself, which have been going on in this Parliament for more than 9 months, we come to the conclusion that even prominent judges who, after all, sit in the Constitutional Court are not in agreement on many matters and these discrepancies are very, very much. What is the result? It follows that the constitution is so written that it allows the law to be interpreted in this way. Since there are so many discrepancies in the interpretation of the law, unfortunately, something is wrong with the mother of all laws written in Poland. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we should not bring the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal to legal issues, because we have been discussing this for so many months now that this discussion is tiring. She is tiring for Poles and actually an average citizen either doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand anymore. I think that... no, I don't think, I'm just convinced that the most political body in Poland is the Sejm. So it is a great naivety to say that the institutions that the Sejm is calling are not political. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to remind you Because Senator Pociej spoke about legal issues arising from the fact that we do not know how to present certain matters, and we are arguing about the fundamental issues of Minister Waszczykowski, inviting the Venice Commission... It has just been mocked that the Minister invites the Venice Commission to Poland and is unable to predict the outcome of this visit. Of course. And how was June last year when the extracurricular judges were elected? I mean, they were outstanding professionals, that was their recommendation. Didn't these distinguished professionals, the lawyers know they'd been picked against the law? President Obama and his visit to Poland. Look how it was presented by some media. Mostly the fragment in which the president admonished Poland was captured, saying that we have problems with law and institutions. Our president behaves so well that he does not remind the American President of the problems in the United States, e.g. Racial. We don't remind the Americans of the problems that were in Guantanamo. [[There they are.]] These are their internal affairs. But what do I mean? I mean, unfortunately, we, ladies and gentlemen, still do. And it's a big part of the elite of the colonial complex and we're sitting... Because once a secretary came from Moscow who said how to behave, what's right and what's wrong. Now someone else is coming and telling us. Of course, the media are turning public opinion against a power that wants to be sovereign, really. In the case of the Court, we also want to be sovereign. Let's do these things here at home. I think what should be the essence of this ongoing few months of discussion is that we should think about changing the basic law, because it is the mother of all the problems that we cannot solve. It would be good if the opposition, who sits here in the Senate, thought about it, not just throwing around the legal loopholes that don't solve people's problems. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u214	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost. Five minutes, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a shame Senator Pociej isn't here, because in general, although in the second voice... I don't want to use that correction. But maybe Senator Comfort will play it back somewhere, so I'll remind him of one thing. I will refer only to one passage of his statement, namely to the article. 91 or Art. 92 of this law, which actually compels the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to allow these three judges to rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already discussed this in the discussion by asking the rapporteur of minorities, Senator Ziientarski, a question. Even Senator Zientarski couldn't answer at some point. Three judges were elected by the Sejm, vows were taken. These judges come to work every day, receive monthly salaries that Mr. Rzepliński signs for them. They're judges. Aren't they? So I asked Mr. Zientarski a question. If Mr Rzepliński does not consider them judges, on what basis does he pay them a monthly salary and let them into the building of the Constitutional Court? Why do they have all the other privileges? Yes, this law is intended to force certain actions by the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Rzepliński, who, in our opinion, completely illegal denies the three elected judges the right to rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u216	Thank you very much. And Senator Stanisław Rooster. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I wasn't supposed to speak, but I was forced to speak by Senator Fedorovich. I'm not a lawyer either, I'm not an actor, but I feel like a patriot and I feel like a Pole. And first of all, I say this: I am proud that the Republic has a President who protects the Constitution, does not break the Constitution; I am proud that the Republic has a Prime Minister who protects the Constitution and does not break the Constitution; I am proud that the Polish Parliament really has a dialogue, a dialogue aimed at lying to what the opposition says that democracy is being violated. Buddy Senator Fedorowicz, I would also like to inform my constituents and residents of the Republic that no democracy in Poland is violated, that the law is respected. After all, Dear Lords, democracy is also about the fact that you can manifest, you can walk the streets and really nothing happens, no police, no army intervenes. Not so long ago. I'd like to remind you of that. When the miners protested, they went to the street, the police fired gas bullets... So? Everything was fine then, everything was fine then. Let me put it this way: it was the enormous greed of the previous coalition that led to this. And I want to tell Senator Comfort... I guess he didn't forget how here, from this speaker, the attention was paid to Senator Zientarski, and the question was, why do you assassinate the Court and, instead of 3 judges, select 5 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? But no arguments got in and out. After all, by then, the polls indicated that, Dear Lords, you will lose the election. Law and Justice proclaimed their own agenda So they wanted this program to be blocked. I will say this because the citizens of the Republic of Poland, Poles should know this: Dear Member State, as long as Prof. Rzepliński is the head of the Constitutional Tribunal, this will happen until then. I remember this evening when I was walking here, near the Senate, with Senator Jackowski, and someone was walking by, covering their face with a briefcase... I didn't know that guy. And a friend of John says to me: you don't know Prof. Rzepliński? I said no. This was the time when the Constitutional Court Act was amended. All gentlemen coming to Poland want to advise Poland. I am very pleased that the NATO summit took place in Poland, but, Dear Lords, culture requires that we do not teach what to do in a sovereign country called: Rzeczpospolita Polska. A colleague of Frost said earlier that after all... I'm sorry, my colleague Gaweł said earlier that Mr Andrzej Duda didn't tell President Obama: why didn't you appoint a member of the United States Supreme Court to the place of the person who died? He didn't ask why the vocation was blocked, and in a very cultural way, certain things were silenced. Everyone else wants to teach the Republic, and they don't really make democratic changes at home. Has anyone in Poland, headed by Mr President, with the Prime Minister, admonished and told Mr Obama that democracy in the United States is not being respected? Because that's where the dictatorship is. We all regretted the great tragedy of innocent policemen being killed. It was the President who sent his condolences to President Obama. I don't want to come in... It's right here one of the fellow Senators from the opposition and our... They said here: let us not touch on Turkey's affairs, after all there is a dictatorship in Turkey, a huge dictatorship is taking place, and everyone is looking through the economic prism, what profits he will have. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look by analogy... Because what, 9,000 people are going to be arrested... Wasn't it prepared? I say it was prepared. Lockdown of 3,000 judges... And no one protests that human rights are being violated. So, what, they're all ex- bombers? The demand to restore the death penalty... Why Mr Juncker and many other prominent representatives, politicians of the European Union, are not begging for these people, and it is said: yes, it is good in this Turkey... And I really support the speeches of the senators who said not to invoke Turkey, for example, because this is a huge tragedy, Dear State, this nation. And let's remember one thing. And President Obama and the Venice Commission should remember that. If it weren't for Poland and not for Poland, Solidarity wouldn't really be a democracy in all of Central Europe. How much blood did the Polish Solidarity give? Later the Berlin Wall flew, other totalitarian systems flew, and this really should be remembered. You should really keep that in mind. And, ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say: it's going to be such a time that you're actually Prof. Rzepliński will go away, and democracy in Poland is wonderful and will have a great time. Today I came here with the Senator from the P.O., we passed... So what? The CODE was standing. He protested? He protested. And we didn't see the police chasing them away or the army. We saw there were servants who made sure no one hurt them. Ino, somebody don't mess around, and like they don't make political decisions at the Court, because someone actually makes political decisions at the Court, wants to make points at the Court. Let's stop, because the greatest sacred thing is the Republic and all the citizens living in it. Not that you get scared, you let go... People are really laughing about it, they don't even know what's going on. They know that some who go to the States and release to Poland... go to the European Union and release to Poland... Because it could really be a lot more about these things, folks, talk. And really, as I said here before, let us not even use the example of Turkey, because this is the tragedy of the Turkish people. So the dictatorship doesn't go back because that's what you're really trying to do by closing the judges, closing the journalists... No one's saying that there were independent journalists locked up there for writing the truth. And no one's talking about it anymore. And the Union claps that well. But as if in Poland such a thing happened, for example. It's closed, we don't know, one judge, it'd be the Union right away... I'm not saying who would close, whether the previous coalition or the present coalition, because we remember the time when democracy was being violated for the previous coalition. What? Haven't we forgotten how the journalists were locked up? Well, ladies and gentlemen, have we forgotten? Was it that long ago, or did the amnesia take us? Then you could really do anything. So that's it. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators. And I really appeal for reason, because the most important thing is the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u218	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am politically growing out of the idea of freedom, which I continue to do today. And that is why, in this debate today, I would like to draw attention to this category. The category of freedom, which in the axiological system is a very important category. Why am I talking about this? Well, ladies and gentlemen, the most elevated element of the constitution is its preamble. The preamble contains cardinal issues for the functioning of society, nation, state. And please note that in our preamble there is a reference to the principle of subsidiarity. And the principle of subsidiarity is that the state, the authorities of the state enter into the lives of citizens only if the citizens themselves or associated in some associations are unable to cope with a problem. So the subsidiarity principle states that the state is to be the minimum state. And it's written in the preamble to our constitution. Why is this included in the preamble to the Constitution? In order to protect the freedom of citizens, so that the authorities of the state do not take possession of this freedom, of course, regardless of who governs it. Because the constitution isn't written... Someone here said the constitution was running out. Ladies and gentlemen, the American Constitution is over 200 years old and has not run out. Of course, I see the shortcomings of this constitution, but it can't be that every time power changes, the constitution changes because we get nervous as a nation. The idea of subsidiarity is very strongly enshrined in the Montescius threefold division of power, which was already mentioned here today. If we deprive or severely weaken one of the three pillars of power, the judicial authority, and especially the Constitutional Tribunal, which limits both the legislative power and, consequently, the executive authority, well, we may suspect that we do not want as a legislative authority to create a system in which laws may not be fully compatible with the spirit. I will not say that with a letter, but with the spirit of the Constitution. I fear that it may also be the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. that the authorities of the legislative and executive authorities will want to take over the freedom of citizens. And that's the most dangerous thing. As history teaches, power, which defrauded the freedom of citizens, which did not give people freedom, always led to destruction. And I'm afraid of that. I'm not saying it's gonna happen right now, in this term or even the next, but if we make it possible... We don't know who's gonna rule in four years, eight years from now, 12 years from now. The old rule is that if something goes wrong, it goes wrong, so you have to protect yourself from something that doesn't ever go wrong. We're discussing the Court today. There are statements here that I find difficult to agree with. One of the senators said it was wrong to call our judges, your judges. Of course, the judges shouldn't be ours or yours, nobody's. It was also said by one of the senators: our president. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that President Duda is the president. All of us, he's not the president of this part of the room, he's not the president of that part of the room. So this sharing, this dichotomy that was appearing in this debate, creates some danger, it's dangerous for civil liberties. Let us also try to think in these categories, not only in terms of the hot political dispute that we are now in, but also in terms of the future, because a good politician, when he makes decisions, does not think about what will happen tomorrow, think about what will happen in 5, 10, 15 years. And that's what I would like for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u220	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I think that in the case of the matter that we are talking about today, in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, the basic issue is whether or not we stopped at the Round Table. Until now, until Law and Justice gained power, in Poland we politically behaved as if we had stopped at this stage and were not moving forward. We are at such a stage that we believe that we have a licensed sovereignty, a licensed independence, and we are afraid to go further to gain total sovereignty, independence from everyone. Do we have the right to sovereign decisions? Can the Sejm, the Senate and the President sovereignly, without looking at others, strangers, Brussels or various associations, European institutions, other countries make decisions? Do we have the right to sovereign decisions, to sovereign laws? I ask because I can see that many of you, especially on the left side of the room, think that we do not have such a right, hide behind the Venice Commission, what President Obama said. I wonder if what President Obama said is acceptable to all Americans. I don't think so. And why should we accept those words that someone, the president of some foreign power, directs to us what he's suggesting? That's why I think we need to end this licensed sovereignty once, break up with the Round Table, because it's about time, and make our own independent sovereign decision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u222	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Because it happened that when I presented my speech as a referee for a minority motion, your marshal I think that she temporarily limited it, and I was unable to point out those elements that empower me to present a broader background, which resulted in a minority request. I also refrained from finding the guilty in the past, because ♪ As I pointed out ♪ The minority request is aimed at the future. However, the debate, the speeches of particularly serious senators and lawyers, such as Senator Czerwiński, are disturbing my sense of justice or even morality. Well, most of you, the vast majority, if not all of you. I didn't see it. In addition to the government, the main reason for the current conflict is in the original act of the Civic Platform. Mr. Senator will nod here. Your body and your mind speak for it. In the Act of 25 June, which, as you know, was not intended solely for this Let us accept the most unfavourable version for the Platform, the accusatory version, in order to secure future interests in the Constitutional Court and to make it, as you say, a substitute force for the Civic Platform. Facts and your assessment provoke me to speak from here. You're saying it was an assassination attempt on democracy, not an assassination on one of the laws, but democracy. In the Polish Parliament after 1997, after the adoption of the law on the new formula of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court questioned several hundred laws. He pointed out to Parliament A number of errors of a wide range and axiological nature. Most cases involved parts of the bill, but there have also been cases where the entire bill was repealed. However, it has not happened that in the debate, with the majority of the Senators here present, someone has stated that the authors of the wrong laws have assassinated democracy. It was accepted with good will that it was simply a mistake or abuse aimed at defending the interests of the ruling group. Those things happened, too. I have already said that during the adoption of information on the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, this information has not been questioned in any significant way. Nor have I heard that there are proposals, suggestions and, above all, legislative initiatives to change the structure of the constitution or the bill. One such thing by PiS appeared on the web pages, but it disappeared within the framework of so-called. A new electoral morality. She was. There isn't. Invisible hat. Well, it could happen. This also applies to other groups that erase certain things and deny what they proposed. My ears were caught up in the fact that a prominent PiS activist used the password "TKM" and added: we are only disturbed by the Court, but we will change it. You may not believe it. It's easy to find out. Now we come to this day, a crisis that divides us strongly. There is no response to the minority's request. You are proving that we have assassinated democracy. I voted in favour of this law by the fact that, in the face of the obvious loss in the parliamentary and presidential elections, we are losing ground and we are going to create a substitute, a third parliamentary chamber. As I have already pointed out, the Court does not have the power to turn everything over... Whoever it is, even in the issue, I would say, the PiS will not have that power. I don't think he'd dare either... That's one thing. [[I don't know you're so naive...]] Mr. Senator Mammoths, you are such a story... Quotations in May indicated the opposite President Komorowski's high win. He didn't show up at the time, as I recall, the candidate, and today, Mr. President, Duda. Let's say that the rig's caution, as you point out, ordered such behavior. Let's also assume that the platform's negative version... Well, that's what happened. This was the case regardless of the circumstances. Mr. Senator Czerwinski, it's happened. The two judges indicated by the Platform added value to the coalition, because that's what we need to say, increased, as someone suggested, about the SLD. Let's assume that these two... However, this has not changed the decision-making process of the Constitutional Tribunal so that the previous rulings suddenly change their vector to the opposite. It didn't. Change well written, spread into instalments... Even if there is a coalition or a party running for four years, this is not reflected in the proportions in the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. And what happened? Yeah, those two were... Today is an obvious fact accompanied by an apology from the Platform. [[Voice from the room: Apologize to this...]] First of all, her previous request for the Court to examine... What you've done, Mr. Senator Czerwiński, has become a charge. Well, you score a goal, you shoot yourself in the knee. In this case, what does a party that has its roots derived from morality, add, Christian? There is, as it should, the truth, or the request to the Constitutional Court, it would seem that this is the way that ends the case and discredits political opponents. And right after that... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, ...withdraws his motion. Why? Not to work on a new bill, to correct irregularities. This party on 25 November consciously, avoiding the legal path, which in other acts would mean that it has abandoned the investigation of justice, makes a resolution on the lack of legal force of the previous law. And he doesn't correct two judges, he does five judges... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Okay, okay, That's not good enough. In this rage, because that's what it's called, he calls on the president to refrain from taking his vows from them. And this Mr. President in his pajamas is signing... [[Mr. Senator, time. It's been 12 minutes.]] Do you consider this behavior moral? Can it be compared to the Platform's immorality? [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done, Mrs. Marshal. You've been interrupting me before... [[I'll tell you why. Please, it's been 12 minutes.]] Okay, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u224	Mr. Senator, I'm taking your vote back. [[Good. I'll ask for five more minutes.]] Good. I didn't interrupt your speech last time, but... the senator who reports has 20 minutes to report to the committee. The gentleman took 20 minutes. Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome. [[In May it was known that he would lose the election.]] [[This is the first tour.]] Mr. Senator Mammoths, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been sitting quietly, but the senator rapporteur for the minority proposal has unfortunately called me. I believe, Senator, that if you took a vow in your pajamas, it was immoral. I agree with you here. But as far as I know, he normally took them in a suit. I'm going to read you a piece of the transcript from May 12, which is unfortunate for you, unfortunately, because it will burden you no matter what you say from this speaker, the committee meeting. It was a joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and perhaps the Committee on Justice. Mr Kropiwnicki, who is introducing this amendment, is speaking. I say again: May 12th, this is the day after the election results of the first presidential tour, in which Komorowski's challenger loses. It's clear by then. Almost everything. And now this part of the protocol: Mr President, of course I am aware that this is not a great solution, but please remember that we stand before the choice to allow the Court to block its work for a longer period and probably there will be no Sejm at this time, because it will be the time of the election campaign and election. Therefore, we have an even bigger mess. What did Mr Kropiwnicki care about, who has been in the Seymary so many times? He cared about the mess at the Constitutional Court. And because of this concern, he introduced a recipe that has been the source of the mess for eight months. That is how it is, Mr President. That's the way it is, unfortunately. That's the truth. Luckily, it all hangs on websites and you can get it out in seconds. I would also like to refer to those voices that were earlier. Well, as I said, this law is a salvage act, but we should really consider what to do if the Constitutional Tribunal decides to do it politically or any other motive. It will cease to function when the Constitutional Tribunal starts to deal with the PR when its representatives are involved in walking in television editorials rather than ruling. The question is whether the Constitutional Tribunal may be mistaken or misjudged. There are different methods. Within the framework of the current constitution is e.g. it is possible to introduce a bi-institution, because the Constitutional Tribunal is the only judicial body that works in a single state. So it's a possibility. There's also a possibility. We've talked about this before, from that bleacher it was raining The Court's decisions are moved by a majority of 2/3 of the votes of the Sejm and the Senate. If the constitution can be changed by 2/3 of the votes, why can the Court's ruling not be touched? This is all to take into account, and to think about, but of course in a calm atmosphere. And the opposition will be as pleasantly seen working on it as possible. If we want to heal the Constitutional Tribunal, restore his authority... And the Constitutional Tribunal has lost its authority Partly, actually, to a large extent... The only way to lose authority is through your actions. He did it on his own and his president's request, and we need to help him get that authority back.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u226	Thank you, Senator. And again, Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go. [[Just tell me the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal, and I'm sorry. Indeed, your knowledge of the Rules of Procedure is greater than mine when it comes to limiting the possibility of temporary applicants. However, I return to the immoral attitude of the Sejm 'Cause I guess that didn't happen in the Senate. In which, in place of 2 wrongly elected judges, the majority shall be elected by a maximum of 5 votes, although the Constitutional Tribunal shall indicate... or was it due to the fact that the Court has not annulled the choice of the previous Sejm. And why, Mr. Senator, couldn't he cancel? So whoever was going to do this and did so violated very much not so much the Constitution as the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Then why? Because by 8 October, Parliament was obliged to select three judges. It was impossible to move this moment outside the electoral file. So this Sejm who challenged the decision of the previous Sejm, for this reason is amoral, because he thought that he had no right to choose 3 judges. Therefore, the Court could not proceed with the work of the Sejm of the current term of office, because it considered that he would have 3 vacancies, which is bullshit, complete nonsense. But we know that's not bullshit. This is actually morality, this is the moral policy of a crocodile who can get his hand, but he grabs the whole arm. And that is what it is, ladies and gentlemen, not so much a mistake as a misdemeanor against democratic principles. And that requires at least... I don't expect a correction and a confession: mea culpa. I'm expecting a fix. This shows where the main cause of the current crisis lies. And let's add that, slowly, PiS retreats from subsequent gestures that emphasize the morality of a crocodile. First, a few months ago, it was a law that was revolutionary, changing the rules of the game. Now it turns out that this is the law that has been in operation since 1997, but when you read it, half of it is changed. So what are you guys playing at? Senator Augustine pointed out one reason why you're playing. But I expect that maybe the PiS, so spreading the Christian culture, which continues to find confirmation of a certain radio from Torun, but will cross the border and As Senator Augustine said, He's not gonna go on the road of an assassination, he's gonna go on an open, open game. Maybe the one Senator Czerwiński was talking about: yes, we will change the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act with the opposition. I think it's not the whole club's voice. That the PO is open to dialogue and discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u228	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, second performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I wasn't supposed to speak, but Senator Rulewski. He kind of made me do it. Mr. Senator, about the fact that the Sejm of the previous term in June had a bad will and chose five members of the Constitutional Tribunal... When was the term of office? I think in November the term of those three passed, and those two in December. How did you know then that the first session of the Sejm would be just after the end of the term of office of those three judges you were talking about? After all, if the President had previously announced the first session of the Sejm, probably a week, then the term of office of these three judges of the Court would have ended in the new term of office of the Sejm. And then it would be obvious that all five judges of the Court were elected illegally. Only you're lucky, because the president just set a deadline. Not right after the election, but November 12th. The election was on October 25. If, for example. A week earlier or a few days earlier, the president announced the first session of the Sejm, then it would be known that these three judges were also elected illegally. And they couldn't be either. There simply wouldn't be any discussion then, you wouldn't have any arguments to force them on the judges of the Court. That's one thing. Secondly, is the Constitutional Tribunal also obliged to comply with the Constitution? Because I see that Prof. Rzepliński, President of the Court, simply does not recognize the Polish Constitution at all. Although he is the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, he does not recognize her. Because I think it's art. 107 states that all state authorities are to act in accordance with the law, and he does not accept it. Art. 197, which says that the mode and mode of work... I'm not exactly quoting it, but I'm giving you a thought. This provision states that the mode and form of action of the Court is determined by the law, and that the President and the Constitutional Tribunal, the majority of the Court of Justice, recognizes that the law, and it is the law which is not even adopted, is unconstitutional, simply in advance they acknowledge it. Without considering this bill, they say she's not constitutional. Well, the President of the Court says that the bill is not constitutional. And as for the many laws which the Sejm has passed, he says, so already in advance, that they are unconstitutional and have not even been dealt with by the Court. Well, what does that mean? This constitution doesn't apply to the Constitutional Court and to Professor Rzepliński? We're the only ones who follow her? We're applying the Constitution, and they don't have to... They're beyond the constitution? This can't be right. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u230	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Robert Mamytkow, Rafał Ambrozik presented their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators: Mr Marek Borowski, Mr Marek Pęk, Mr Jan Rulewski, Mr Jerzy Wcisła, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, Mr Leszek Czarnobaj, Mr Piotr Wach, Mr Józef Zając. The discussion is closed. There's no government representative, so I'm not gonna ask. 'Cause I don't have anybody. . to respond to the proposals put forward. But as legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 240 and the report of the committee In print No 240 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 7 July 2016 amending the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws. The Commission met yesterday and submitted a report. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the law adopted by the Sejm on the amendment of the Law on Minimum Compensation for Work and some other laws is to introduce a minimum hourly rate for persons engaged in work on the basis of contracts and contracts for the provision of services to which the provisions on the contract apply. The minimum hourly rate for the execution of the order or benefit shall be fixed annually and published by 15 September of each year, together with the minimum salary for the work, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the form of a notice by the President of the Council of Ministers. In order to enable checks to be carried out to ensure a minimum hourly rate, the Act lays down rules for determining the number of hours the execution of the order or the provision of services. As a general rule, these issues should be laid down in a contract concluded by the parties prior to the commencement of work. It's very important. In the absence of contractual arrangements on how to confirm the number of hours the execution of the order or the provision of services, the customer shall provide written, electronic or documentary information on the number of hours the execution of the order or the provision of services. Ladies and gentlemen, given the number of people who continue to work in our country, they receive a minimum rate, i.e. About 1.5 million people, this amendment is expected and falls into the needs of the Polish society, and especially of the lowest people. That was also the case, my dear fellow Members, at the committee meeting. Questions were asked to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister of Sweden, who was present at the meeting at the time. Senator Augustine, Senator Elephant, Senator Rooster. As a result of these questions, the committee accepted 2 amendments which the Ministry supported and formally submitted to the Swedish Senator. I ask the High House to adopt a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u232	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome Minister Stanisław Swed, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Before I ask the Minister to speak, I would like to ask if any of your senators would like to ask the rapporteur, because you are now able to report a question to the senator from a place that lasts no more than a minute. Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u233	Mrs Marshal, Senator Rapporteur, the Social Dialogue Council has set the minimum wage by 15 September, if I have heard correctly, for the following year. As far as I know, this year's board has established this height. There was no problem with that, the case was clarified and employers, employees and the government reached an agreement. I have this question: what happens if an agreement is not reached? Because there has to be an hourly rate every year. What happens if there's no agreement? Who's gonna set the stakes at that time? And what criteria must then be applied to set this rate if this is not agreed upon by the Social Dialogue Council?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u234	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u235	The question you're asking the senator wasn't the subject of a committee meeting. However, it is assumed that a consensus between the government and the Social Dialogue Council will be reached.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u236	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u237	Have other points of view been considered during the committee's work, in addition to what I hear here from the Social Dialogue Council? In particular, did anyone accuse us of mixing civil contracts with employment contracts? Has the Convention been cited I don't remember her title. That explicitly states that the remuneration relates to a contract of employment, and that working under a contract of employment is more than just a civil contract or, I would say, something else... If so, quote, Senator rapporteur, these points of view. Perhaps the experts... Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u238	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u239	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, there were no such points of view cited, there was not at the committee of experts who would have seen this matter this way. As if the most serious problem raised by the senators at the meeting was the issue of excluding certain professional groups from the rules of this law. And in this respect, we are talking about people who carry out tasks at the family social services centers, and as if the pragmatism of the activities of these institutions motivated them to be excluded from the scope of this law. But those things you're talking about weren't discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u240	Thank you very much. You're welcome to ask questions. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u241	Again, Mr. Chairman. The minimum remuneration is clear; the hourly rate is also due to the minimum remuneration. The hourly rate applies, as stated in the Act, to the execution of an order or the provision of services, i.e. a fairly large group of recipients concerned the order. I have a question for you... Of course, considering it right, especially when it comes to security companies. Here you can talk a lot about what it looked like so far. That some hourly rate will be... but it affects many, many people. That's why my question is, who's gonna control it? How will this hourly rate be controlled? Will it control, I don't know, the State Labour Inspection, or someone else? And what are the possibilities of such additional control? Does this require the employment of additional people who will control it, or can this be done by their own strength? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u242	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u243	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, the task of this inspection has been assigned to the State Labour Inspection, and the relevant provisions have also appeared in this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u244	Thank you very much. I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. I would like to warmly welcome Minister Stanisław Swede. Hello, Minister. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Yes.]] Welcome back, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you so much for giving me the floor. I am also very pleased that today in the Senate we can consider one of the most important points of the Law and Justice programme, concerning the introduction into the minimum wage for hourly work of 12 PLN in terms of contract-ordering; and from 1 January this rate will be 13 PLN. This is a law that will somehow regulate the question of pathologies that we are dealing with today and in recent years when hourly rates have been applied to contracts-contracts at the level of several zlotys; I have already mentioned many times that I have employment contracts with me, where the hourly rate was 25 gr per hour. We absolutely cannot tolerate such things. And I'm glad to see the Senate today... And I hope that, after the Senate has adopted the 2 amendments that Senator Majer, the draftsman of the committee, will also accept these amendments of the Senate and that this bill will be able to enter into force. The very important information one senator has asked about here is that for the first time, such an important project has also been accepted by the social partners, both by the workers' and employers' sides within the Council of Social Dialogue. The negotiation process was quite long, which is why the entry into force of the law was delayed, but in consensus the Social Dialogue Council adopted a resolution which included three important points, which were included in the final draft law, and the Sejm accepted it. That is, the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2017, the valorisation of the hourly rate So today we are talking about 12 PLN, and after valorization from 1 January it will be 13 PLN; I will say this again. And the third point that follows from this agreement is the question not to include the allowance for night hours to the minimum wage as well as the hourly rate. These 3 solutions are also included in this project and, as I said, a great success for both the social partners and the government side is that this compromise has been reached. And this compromise will work. It is also worth noting when discussing this law that, unfortunately, companies that provide services to public administration, both state and local government, in most cases applied low hourly rates for work. And I think if we can sort this out in the first period, it'll be a good solution, too. Therefore, this entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2017 is also the answer to the fact that there is a time to adapt the Act. The senator was talking about details. One more thing is worth mentioning here: where does this proposal come from, and why are we talking about the 13 PLN rate from 1 January? This is a matter related to the fact that the Council of Ministers adopted a proposal for a minimum wage of PLN 2000 since 2017, the hourly rate calculated on the basis of the amount of PLN 2000 is PLN 13. This increase will result in a minimum wage level of 47% national average, which means we are approaching this limit 50% which was also mentioned in the Law and Justice Programme. It is also an important signal that today, with relatively low unemployment, in any case the lowest unemployment in the country since 2008, the issue of raising the minimum wage is also important. Of course, we are still talking about a minimum wage, this law is being created for this purpose. Senator Rulewski asked for order... Here we touch very difficult matter, because we have the order of the Labour Code and the order of the Civil Code. And in fact, the Civil Code refers to the freedom to close contracts, so we shouldn't interfere. The freedom of contract is that everyone enters into an agreement on certain principles, but unfortunately this freedom of contract is abused. This is the case in our case, because research shows that more than 70% employees are forced either to enter into contracts-orders or to self-employment. Hence interference in these laws to lead to a situation where such agreements will be much less. I think that in this debate it is also important that, at this moment, after many months of debate and negotiation, there is a different attitude, this is no longer a taboo theme. We are talking about very low wages and we all condemn it to some extent. I will remind you that in the Seym this project was approved by all clubs except one. And I think that if, after the introduction of this rate of 12 PLN per hour, the situation continues to be presented so that we cannot afford low wages, it will also be a success of this law. If there are any questions, Mr. Marshal, I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u246	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rulewski was the first to come forward, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u247	Minister, you said that the government is pleased with this solution, and you support it. You've already answered some of my questions. You mentioned there was a mix-up of matter or two types of work relationships. Civilian contracts are mixed with employment contracts covered by the Labour Code, which is contrary to the Labour Protection Convention. Don't you share mine? And the Land's view that, in fact, you are decreed at a higher wage level, but nevertheless, extending your contract for work? You yourself pointed out that the spread of the contract for the work is pathological and is the cause of this phenomenon that you mentioned. Second question: did you express yourself precisely, Minister, saying that this is a rate similar to the minimum wage? As you know, the minimum wage is accompanied by 17 other components that actually increase the salary or entitlement of the employee. From leave to overtime by at least 60% by 80% depending on whether it's a man or a woman. Why did you get the trilateral commission to sell their rights for dubious money that would eat inflation? Why is it that a government that calls itself a government of social justice does not fight the pathology, the disease of civil contracts forced on workers, but is involved in the payout scheme? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Cash will be paid, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u248	You're welcome, Minister. [[The government's gonna pay those stakes, too.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Right away, right?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u249	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I do not share Senator Rulewski's view that the government is not making any changes in this area because it is making a change that... As I said, this proposal for 12 zlotys is the best proof of this... [[Voice from the room: 15 PLN.]] We're talking contract contracts, we're not talking contract contracts. If we are talking about works contracts, we consider these contracts to be those that should be treated as works contracts. And, of course, if there are abuses in this area, that's why. We give greater powers to the State Labour Inspection to prevent this. One of the conditions that we have introduced since 1 January is also the use of contract-orders, so that the mechanism of protection of the employee who is employed under the civil law order is higher. Of course, we can treat this extremely, as the senator said, so that we eliminate the possibility of employment in civil law relations at all, and we only have code agreements. But that doesn't apply to this project. It is difficult for me to say whether we have forced the Social Dialogue Council to do something. The Social Dialogue Council has an autonomous dialogue and it has not been easy to reach this agreement, which I have said. There has been an agreement, the government has adopted these solutions, these proposals, and we are pleased with that. If there is a process of abuse of works contracts I will remind you that the contract for the work must apply to a specific work done Then we will look for further solutions to put an end to this practice. As far as the minimum remuneration of the various components is concerned, one that will no longer be included And this was included in the agreement obtained in the Council of Social Dialogue, there is an allowance for night hours. Of course, there are other factors that may affect the minimum wage, but the purpose of this change was not to make some radical change here. We're also at a stage... From 1 September, work will begin on the new labour code and issues related to including or not including various wage allowances may then be considered in some way. As I said at the beginning, knowing that we are talking about two legal orders, we want, by interfering in a way, I would say civilised in civil law relations, to put them in order by introducing a minimum wage barrier and leaving the possibility of concluding civil law agreements with conditions at a higher level.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u250	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u251	Mr. Marshal, Minister, you were talking about the Law and Justice program, about the fact that it was on the program. I recall that there was this hourly rate on our program, and I reported the quality of security companies myself. Because I remember the contracts I made. What were the odds? Yeah, they were low, gross. It is therefore supported that such rates should be set. But it also says that 80% As far as the first year of work is concerned, for those who have been employed... I understand you're putting up with this, too, and that's 100%. That's a minimum wage, as you said, next year at the level of 2,000, which is to be... This, of course, involves an hourly rate. And now it is my question whether you have carried out any analyses in this respect. Because Poland is diverse, it looks different in Warsaw, in Poznań, in Wrocław, in such cities, or in some smaller towns, or in other places in the south of Poland or in the eastern part of Poland. Will these regulations not therefore have any significant impact on the labour market? Is that going to be a negative or a positive impact? Is this the analysis you've been conducting?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u252	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, this analysis has been carried out. It pays in the first year of employment 80% In fact, the minimum wage was discriminatory in relation to employees. Of course, this was introduced at a different time when we had a big problem with the labour market and young people. Today, the situation is completely different. As I said in my speech, we have unemployment at 8.8% This is the lowest level of unemployment since 2008. But it is also important that the level of unemployment is also falling among the youngest, i.e. those who are taking up work for the first time. And this is the point where we should even up this rate, this minimum wage equalizes, so that it doesn't cause that difference in employment, because it has kind of different consequences. How we will analyze, for example. The question of traveling abroad, it will turn out that today one of the reasons that young people give why they are leaving is no longer lack of work, but pay. And from here, I think it's a minimum. 'Cause we're talking about minimum amounts all the time. It is necessary to compensate for this amount. And that's, I think, a good solution. The topic, the discussion about minimum wage differential at national level, comes back every once in a while. Because it is known, in Warsaw, in terms of minimum wages, the level of employment is minimal, in other regions of the country is higher. But we are definitely in favour of maintaining this level equally throughout the country, and here we do not anticipate changes in the differentiation of minimum wage. In this respect, Nor do we anticipate changes in employment in the first year, that there will be other rates in other regions of the country, because we also believe that this would be discriminatory. We operate in one country and this rate should be the same for everyone. And let me remind you that we're still talking about minimum amounts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u254	Aren't you afraid, Minister, that the adoption of this law, which only concerns contracts and services, and doesn't include contracts for works, will result in an escape to contracts for works? And you know Because you've worked together... and we've worked together on the Labour Protection Council. That this is the hardest problem to detect, to point out, to prove that this is not a contract of employment, this is a contract-order, and the worst is a contract for a work. So will there not be escapes to the work agreement? It's obvious he's not gonna be here... There is a record of working time, but it is so illusory. How can the inspector verify that the contract-order contains... Yes, there will be a stake. Thank God she's gonna grow. But it will not be known how many hours were really allocated to this order, because instead of 10 there will be 5 at the rate of 12 PLN. And the third question. Don't you think you should go that way so that this mixing doesn't happen? It's about preserving the benevolence of contracts, voluntary contracts, and it's about converting them into tariff agreements, so for those people that Senator Florek here says are working on, for example. in the security services, in collective agreements the rate was not less than 12 PLN, but in order for it to be a remuneration rather than something contractual, which is sometimes an oral agreement. [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking for questions, and the speeches will be here any minute.]] Well, that's the question. Mr. Marshal, the question was, shouldn't we have gone the way... [[Questions lasting no more than a minute.]] Oh, okay. I don't have a watch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u255	Please. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u256	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, first thing, first question. We assume that within two years there will be a review of this system, how it will work. That's the first thing. The second thing that's important in all of this is what we're discussing when it comes to work contracts. It's hard to tell if there's gonna be crossings or not right now. Of course, such agreements happen, e.g. A contract for a piece to unpack the goods in the store on the shelf. Well, it's not a work contract. It's a bypass... And, of course, in that case, the labour inspection will have the right to act. We also want... You're the one who picked it up. This hourly rate must be included in the contract, and on the one hand the hourly rate is fixed, but on the other hand there is a certain period of time and it will also indicate that this rate must be at least 12 PLN and then 13 PLN. And the third point you were talking about is what I already said. We are preparing to amend the Labour Code and I think this is a forum where we can think about other types of contracts or simplifying employment contracts. And I think that if the problem with the work agreements is to grow, this target solution will certainly be a question of uniform tax and a uniform contribution. Because then it's a case, I think, definitely solves it. If an insurance premium is collected from any employment, whether civil or code-based, then it is not simply worth it, so to speak, to flee from the payment of contributions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u257	Senator Chróścikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u258	Minister, I have a question... Because farmers are becoming more and more entrepreneurs and employing more and more people. The work of family farms is dying, and it's getting bigger and bigger. You can see it clearly. The need to hire other people to work. And here's the question. In case we're writing a contract for a work 'Cause the owner thinks it's a collection... Is he more effective in doing this as a work, collecting 100 kilos of raspberries or, say, 100 kilos of strawberries or another... and that can be considered a work contract? But doesn't an hourly contract, for which farmers do not want to pay, want to pay for the hours, because then their employee is inefficient? And second question. The case concerns the employment of foreigners. We know that the Germans introduced such an obligation, which was challenged by the Commission concerning the hourly rate, i.e. EUR 8 if I remember correctly. Will such a provision apply in the case of Polish, that such a rate will also have to be applied? Because I would like to remind you that the same can be done by entities that will employ people in Poland. Will it be possible to override it or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u259	Minister, if I may... Ladies and gentlemen, let us not bring our discussion to the mixing of everything, to the fact that everything can be a contract for a work. Well, that's a different rule. Collecting raspberries is not a work contract, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u260	Mr. Marshal has already answered. He's an entrepreneur, and he said it wasn't a work contract. Although we are aware that these agricultural work agreements are the most important, so that... [[But that's the worst paragraph.]] ...and the senator knows that too. But like I said, it's also a process... When it comes to discussions about the employment of foreigners, we are about to have a rather difficult discussion about the employment of foreigners. 'Cause we kind of distinguish... If we are talking about hiring foreigners in EU countries, these conditions are It's already... The Posting of Workers Directive imposes certain obligations on us. Well, today, unfortunately, we have a negative decision from the European Commission, this is the yellow card procedure that we have been able to introduce, and unfortunately the European Commission is... Well, she didn't take it, it's gonna continue. But I understand your question so that the bigger problem is the employment of foreigners from third countries, i.e. from outside the eastern border, mainly from Ukraine. And we're trying to sort it out. We want to. I do not hide this from the principle that these minimum hourly rates must also be applied to those who come to us, or else the entire market will blow over. And that's kind of the main goal. We make it very easy to employ foreigners, knowing that there are industries at the moment. It's mostly agriculture, but not just agriculture, because it's in other industries, too. where it is harder to find an employee from our country, even though e.g. It's about the area where there's a lot of unemployment. That's why we're eating... But there must be civilised conditions for hiring these people as well. We're in the middle of a discussion, the subject isn't easy, but we're trying to civilize it somehow. And here's what I'm gonna say: if we're gonna civilize him. And that's what we do. Looking towards the countries of the European Union, we must do this, taking into account the other side. It cannot be that, on the one hand, we apply certain rules, i.e. a Polish worker travelling abroad is to be provided with minimum conditions, and someone who comes to us can be treated worse, has to have worse conditions. I know that in the case of agriculture, most of the contracts that are concluded are work contracts and that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u261	Mr... [[I have one more question, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. [[May I?]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u262	Minister, I would like to point out that in Germany, our employees who work there are paid this way: if the product is sold, then the employee is paid for the product sold. If the money doesn't come back, they don't pay. So this is also a contract for a work and in Germany it is applied: a specific work done Not paid, not paid. It's not paid. And often Polish workers do not get paid, because this is how these contracts, or works contracts, are sanctioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u263	Mr. Senator, there's also a problem here that we're treated differently, unfortunately. Germany has implemented the procedure for the introduction of minimum and other transport benefits in breach of EU law, but they are still implementing the procedure. That's what they do. And when we introduce something, they are immediately punished for our country. And it's kind of like two cleanings... I mean, maybe not two cleanups, I said wrong. It is different to approach our country, and it is different to approach a country such as Germany. Well, an example is that, as I say, there are 11 countries ♪ with us ♪ They have implemented the yellow card procedure, but today the European Commission, contrary to the decisions of these 11 countries, has rejected this proposal and continues to carry out a proposal to amend this directive, which will directly impact Polish entrepreneurs, which are currently creating the largest market for posted workers to the countries of the Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u264	Senator Czerwinski, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u265	Mr. Marshal, Minister, as I understand it, the minimum hourly rate is linked to the minimum wage. Whether it's rigid, I don't know, pattern or formula, so that you can go from one to the other, or all of this is liquid and for example. Depending on the findings, let's say, the dialogue committee can change?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u266	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u267	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, the stakes are not directly connected... This is the same system for valorization... The same mechanism is used here. If the social partners do not agree on the amount of the minimum wage increase and the hourly rate, then such proposals are made by the government. In the Act there was a record concerning 12 PLN. And the valorisation mechanism is linked here to the minimum wage valorisation mechanism. So if the minimum wage increases, the hourly rate increases. So the negotiations are going to be about the minimum wage, you might say. So, since the minimum wage is now... The government has proposed PLN 2,000, the social side has not agreed on this amount and the salary of PLN 2 000 will already be accepted by the government. And out of the 2,000 zlotys comes the hourly rate, which is 13 zlotys. [[Thank you very much.]] If in the following year the minimum wage is, I don't know, PLN 2 000 100, then the hourly rate will be higher.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u268	Mr. Senator Rulewski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u269	Thank you. Minister, I am grateful for this thinking... for what you said about introducing the principle that for equal work, equal burden... And my question arises, among other things. from Senator Chróścikowski's statement. He knows the agricultural market well. The question is: how are you going to solve the problem of agricultural control? There's work inspection hands, as you know, they don't reach. And, as Senator Chróścikowski points out, who, as I said, knows his stuff, that's where the most deals are. about the work When picking strawberries, when selecting mushrooms, with some hammered works.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u270	Another question, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u271	Minister, because I have noticed that the Senator rapporteur seems to have misled me a little, I will read... It's an art. Point 2 5: If the Social Dialogue Council does not agree within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1. 3. the minimum remuneration for the following year, the Council of Ministers shall, by means of a regulation, fix by 15 September each year the minimum remuneration. I therefore have a question: if the Social Dialogue Council does not agree, i.e. we will not have a minimum wage, how will the Council of Ministers set an hourly rate for the following year if there is no consensus? It worked this year, but it doesn't always have to work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u272	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u273	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator... I will answer Mr. Senator Rulewski: this is a question for the State Labour Inspection. I think he'll be fine. I'm not pulling that thread here. Mr Senator, the mechanism discussed here, as regards the issue of fixing minimum work, is somewhat different. The government proposes a certain amount of minimum wage to social partners. This year this amount amounted to PLN 2,000. This proposal goes to the Social Dialogue Council meeting. The Social Dialogue Council did not approve, of course, the trade unionists did, but employers did not agree to this amount. The matter returns to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers adopts, by its resolution, the amount. But this amount cannot be lower than the first proposal mentioned above. So in this case, the Council of Ministers has only one option to increase, it can no longer reduce. And 2,000 zlotys is the amount that we proposed, and that amount will stay. [[Thank you very much...]] [[I'm sorry, I'm just ad vocem. Because, as I understand it, this year's advice was probably in favour of employers, so they gave a positive opinion, from what they...]] No, no. The minimum wage of 2,000 was not positive. The employers disagreed with the amount of PLN 2 000.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u274	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you very much.]] Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! It is to be welcomed that the Social Dialogue Council has taken account of the minimum hourly rate as announced by the two largest groups already in the electoral campaign. This 12 PLN was a matter that brought together both Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, even in reverse, both of these groups wanted this change. The aim was, however, to guarantee that the contract-contract workers would be paid at least at the minimum wage level if it covered the same time range. However, it must be borne in mind that the guaranteed remuneration, whether in the case of a civil law contract or in the case of an employment contract, is a little double-edged mechanism for workers. You have to be careful and choose the right time. But together with the Civic Platform, I say that this moment is good, both when it comes to the lowest salary... I would like to remind you that in our governments we have doubled the lowest wage and this progress has been continuous. We did it sometimes with the consent of the employers, but sometimes without her. Now a little bit more has been done, which is why we have not been able to reach consensus in the Social Dialogue Council. Nevertheless, we support this solution because employment is growing and the economy is good. One could say that if we are to get closer to the indicators that are in the European Union when it comes to the minimum wage compared to the average wage, then if not now, then when. This duality and uncertainty that cannot be resolved is about how the labour market will behave, how employers will actually behave. It could be said that employers, trying to minimize labour costs, were cascaded. When they wanted to save money and not even pay the minimum wage, they ran away into a contract-order. If this was too much for some sectors, there was talk of agriculture, fruitage and vegetables, then they fled into a contract for work. There is another point that we raised at the committee meeting, the question of the grey zone. Of course, when employers want to drastically reduce employment costs, they avoid legal employment. It's hard to tell how it's gonna be now. However, it should be hoped that this manoeuvre will generally be beneficial for workers, especially in those areas where unemployment is already really minimal, at which the worker needs to be sought and when it is impossible to avoid paying properly. Let me tell you a little story that I heard from a friend of mine from a great-growing company, with a good brand, with a good reputation, a lot of investment. She said, you know, I've been hiring a large group of employees for a contract-order or even a contract for a work. But when I had to buy the latest machines that really needed to be adapted to people, and I had to invest in IT training, and they started leaving my job because they were unsatisfied with earnings, I realized that I couldn't keep doing that. And only a few people now work for a contract-order, where necessary. And the rest of us are already working on the employment contract. I pay them decently, not only to deliver them to work at my own expense, but to organize the cafeteria. And I think, since there's a lot of women working there, It's about organizing a microschool. I think that this kind of approach will spread in Poland and that the employee Also, because of what we are proposing today, it will increasingly be treated as the most important resource of the company, not as a cheap workforce. Let's hope this works even stronger than those official orders we're putting in here. Because many of the employers I talked to before coming here and prosecuting this law were telling me straight away: it affects me less and less, because so few earning employees are long gone. And let us hope that this is as much as possible, that the minimum wage should fall behind real wages rather than being a means of coercion to pay enough to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u276	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka, Senator Mammoths, Senator Łuczak and Senator Kaminski have made their speeches in the minutes. [[Can I file a motion? It's about moving to a vote on this bill in tomorrow's voting block.]] I'd like to inform you, literally in a few seconds. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow, after point two. Tomorrow we start at 9 a.m., the point of ratification. This item will be followed by a vote on the point on ratification and on those points that we will still be able to process today. I'm going to try to get us two more points on the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. That's two points, I'm gonna want to finish their procession today so we can vote four points tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on Activation of the Marine Industry and Complementary Industries. The text of the Act is contained in print No 227 and the committee report In print No 227 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u277	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission today... I'm sorry, yesterday, to discuss this item... on this item on the agenda. I'm sorry, I'm just a little tired from today's session. The Minister was directly present... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...who answered two questions in a very brief and substantive discussion. In fact, it can be said that there was hardly any discussion. All the senators present at the committee's meeting supported the proposal. Let me just say briefly that the law in question is a law that promotes the development of the shipbuilding industry. It should be noted that this is mainly about the maritime industry, to a lesser extent the law concerns the inland industry. These are facilitation packages consisting, first, of reducing the fiscal burden, of tax on goods and services, second, of creating more opportunities for the creation of special zones in which the shipbuilding industry operates, and third, of organising easier access to ship financing measures. This will concern both the construction of new ships and the change of the destination of existing ships, through renovation, as well as the change of the source of propulsion. As I said, the sitting was smooth and the deliberations ended with the full support of the present senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u278	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u279	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, I'm just reading this bill right now because it was introduced into the agenda of our sitting so... I was curious about what the rapporteur said about VAT. What's this VAT exemption supposed to look like? This is an exceptional situation for the ship industry, as I understand it. Would this not be an example for others to ask you to reduce VAT as well? If you could explain these tax privileges... I don't really understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u280	That wasn't the question at the committee meeting. By reporting the committee's deliberations... Specific questions were asked e.g. Why the offshore industry, not the inland industry... At the time, the Minister replied that this would prevent European legislation on goods and services tax. I think that this question is best answered by the Minister here. There is a very specific amount introduced there. We are talking about EUR 5 million, which was discussed earlier in the Sejm. As I say, the Minister is here, and he'll probably answer that question. During the committee's deliberations, this was not exactly the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u281	Thank you. Thank you. No more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Welcome to Mr. Paweł Brzezicki. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u282	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I may spare myself the recitals, because you probably all know what the historical role of the shipbuilding industry in Poland until 2007, which it played after 2007 and which it plays today. We want to activate this industry. By means of this law, we address entrepreneurs, in particular those who are contracting entities for the construction of sea-going vessels, sea-going vessels. Maybe I can put the answer to the senator's question in my speech right away. The Act contains 3 types of tax tools, which are designed to facilitate the acquisition of working capital and offer customers, i.e. companies, cheaper products, but qualitatively specific for the Polish shipbuilding industry, i.e. high quality products. As far as VAT is concerned, we want this law to help the shipbuilding industry on two levels. Firstly, there is a catalogue of vessels which may be sold to shipowners without charging them with VAT. As a rule, it is not possible in its service activity to charge VAT on its customers because VAT is unique only in the case of the European Union. VAT does not exist in the world and as such cannot be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator Chróścikowski, but please turn off your phone.]] ...used by the ship owner for the purpose of so-called. Reimbursing this tax paid to the yard. This is recognised by the whole world and recognised by the European Union as well. The European Union allows ships to be sold to customers without VAT. This is an exception. It is a harmonised tax and there is no such thing in other industries. In our industry there is and also concerns port services and all work related to the full sea. Therefore, we are expanding the catalogue of ships sold without VAT, adapting it to EU requirements. So far, we have been dealing with a catalogue where it was said that such and such a type of ship could be sold without VAT. Today, we are moving directly to the wording of the European Union directive and are talking about all sea-going vessels with certain exceptions. In general, these exceptions concern warships. Regarding the non-application of VAT... It's like we're going deeper with VAT. We believe that since the ship can be sold without VAT to the ship owner, and in the process of pre-financing the construction of this ship, which takes several years, the yard bears the costs of VAT and de facto accounts for it only at the end of construction... We find that the yard can purchase equipment from its suppliers, which are built into a newly built ship, without VAT. This is a novelty and it is also accepted by the European Union. This is not an element notified to the European Commission. The element to be notified to the European Commission is the CIT element, the income tax. In our law, we give shipyards the option to apply the tax on an optional basis of 18%. or registrations and mandatory applications for three-year periods, which may be extended by the yard's board of directors, a tax on marketed production of 1%. This element is notified to the European Commission. The third element, which makes it easier for the yard, is the possibility of developing the yard area belonging to the yard, and not only, as has so far been, to the Treasury, within a special economic zone. The Management Board of the yard will report such a need to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and to the Ministry of Development. This zone will then be established by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. It is de facto a full catalogue of facilitations, which is in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u283	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Who would like to ask such a question? Senator Rotnicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u284	Thank you very much. My question might be naive. We're talking about the activation or, say, the development of shipbuilding, the production of ships. I have a question for you. Will Polish entities or external entities be allowed to do all this? I'm asking you this because maybe not the privileges, but the conveniences are pretty far-fetched here. Economic Zone, etc... In the end, you said the landowners... It is not only about the Treasury but also about entrepreneurs. Can you tell me exactly what this is gonna look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u285	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u286	Yes. All entities that conduct business activities under the Polish Commercial Companies Code Act will be admitted here. Therefore, foreign capital may also appear here. In principle, however, there is no physical possibility other than to remove the ship from the Polish ramp or the Polish dock to the Polish sea. There is no other possibility. With what kind of capital will this be done? It's hard for me to say. As regards the answer to the second question, the provisions on special economic zones are now strictly limited to the areas belonging to the State Treasury. We are dealing with a situation in which the State Treasury takes, so to speak, the green field, invests billions in land, infrastructure, etc., and at the same time large areas of heavily armed shipbuilding are empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u287	Thank you very much. Questions, please. Senator Piech, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u288	I have a question for the Minister about the construction of ships. Have we launched a seaship after 2007, and are we technically prepared to do so? That's one thing. Second question. Do we have the right engineering and technical staff at the moment, the right designers to design these ships? I ask because there is a break, since 2007 shipyards have hardly produced ships. And the third question. Will round-the-clock companies, the ones that equip ships, be able to count on support too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u289	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u290	Yes, Mr. Senator, since 2007, we have launched a number of sea-going vessels, but the problem is not the number of these ships. Well, according to the statistics of the statistical office in 2007, we launched 33 sea-going vessels, and in 2015 we launched 11 of them. The problem is something completely different. In 2007, the weight of these ships - the mass sold in exports - was 0.5 million t, which was not a record. And in 2015, we sold ships that weighed 25,000 tons in total. That means a twenty-time reduction in in-kind production, the investments on these ships. They were small ships. These were of course sea-going ships, high-quality ships, expensive ships, but so reduced the weight and quantity of equipment used cut the chain of suppliers. Therefore, the problems that exist today in the shipbuilding industry are only a small part of the problems of the shipbuilding industry, these are the problems of the entire supplier chain, from Szczecin and Gdansk to Podhale. It's about steelworks, Cegielski's plants, Towimor's plants, Mechanical plants, and all mechanical plants in Poland were doing something for the shipyard. That's the problem. The place of work in the yard, in the shipbuilding industry, is converted into between 7 and 15 places in the cooperative industries. Therefore, if we lost or bought ourselves a so-called. The shipbuilding law loses 15 thousand jobs, and we have an immediate answer: about 100 and 150 thousand people in Poland went to unemployment, and it was people employed not in agriculture or in uncomplicated industries, and in technology industries. As far as HR is concerned, I'd like to say yes, although maybe it'll be a little political. From the Polish shipyards we are talking about, and we are talking mainly about Gdańsk, Gdynia and Szczecin, these 2 shipyards, apart from Gdynia, i.e. shipyards in Gdańsk and Szczecin, are the German shipyards, these are the shipyards which Poland received in 1945. The people who started working in these shipyards after 1945 were mostly people from behind Bug, from the East. A highly qualified workforce, sorry for the ugly expression, is created only in the third generation. We were deprived of it or its ability to develop it was cut at the end of the third generation, precisely in 2007. At the moment, top-notch professionals are people of the age of 60+. But at the same time we have a lot of young people, especially in construction offices, because these offices have been scattered around the shipyard, and at the moment in Gdańsk, Gdynia and Szczecin there are more than 60 entities in the industry that design for the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, etc. By the way, I would like to say that ship production in Europe is growing. It fell only in Poland, it grew in Europe. In addition, the opportunities are those with medium technical education who are currently running out of contracts in Western countries in shipyards which have produced for offshore oil industries. The contracts offered to Poles there were mainly six-month contracts and at the moment the reduction of this industry due to the fall in oil prices is so deep that these contracts have not been renewed. That's why we're probably going to have a lot of middle-school professionals after vacation, mostly welders with international certificates, because they're not just regular welders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u291	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion... [[I'd like to ask you one more question...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u292	I would also like to ask about this industry around the corner. Will he also have any financial support, perhaps in the form of a tax reduction, to make it live again?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u293	Mr. Senator, it is in this bill that the yard will receive the bill without VAT from its supplier. Maybe I'll try to explain it in a simple example. The simplest element of the ship's equipment is the generator. The generator is usually composed of two elements, it is a generator of current and its housing, etc., etc. Yes? These are usually things that come from two suppliers, are deposited with the generator and sent to the yard. It is this producer of aggregates that will have to pay VAT. And he's the one who's gonna take the burden of settling the budget. It's just that he won't account for a few years, just like the ship manufacturer, like the shipyard that builds the ship for, say, a minimum of 2 years, well, up to 10 years, depending on the complexity of this ship... Of course, if this is a series, then the first ship is after 10 years, and then the next one is every six months. I add that not to say that every ship is made for 10 years. In any case, it is this producer who takes the burden of settling the budget. And the ship's equipment, all these elements are produced in series production and high-speed production. We've been talking... I spoke to the steel chamber, with regional chambers in the south of Poland, in Silesia, and there I was told: we want this because we get orders through it, we get orders and we settle on VAT. In particular, this applies to the metallurgical industry, where it is called. reverse VAT, which means it doesn't come with VAT anyway... However, the Act does not provide for direct support, only indirect support by activating production in shipyards and taking orders from Polish entities. The additional element, which is in addition to the Act and to which the Act was built, is the KUKE Regulations, Export Credit Insurance Corporation, which is widely used and widely used by shipyards. This regulation implies forcing 30% of the Polish product in the ship assembly process. So we have, as it were, some kind of extortion and willingness of the cooperative industry with shipyards to carry out contracts for the yard.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u294	Thank you very much. In short, you will improve... or it will positively affect the cash flow of the shipyard in relation to the construction of ships. Thank you very much again, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The shipbuilding industry has actually been rolled up for several years and has already been quite effectively almost completely rolled up. The shipbuilding industry, as the Minister said, is an industry dependent on suppliers, subsuppliers of parts. He was developed in Poland, he was at such a high level that it can be said that all ships were formed here, equipped with domestic parts, parts which were allowed by international shipping companies and met the highest standards in the world. But this industry has also been rolled up, i.e. not only shipyards, but also all companies that have cooperated with them. I watched exactly how it was rolled up, for example. a factory of specialized pumps serving ships. It was a factory in Gliwice, GZUT Gliwice producing pumps. These are technically difficult elements, because they... I don't know if you know, but I'm going to give you this bullshit as an example. On ships, the voltage standard is not 50 Hz, just like in our socket, but 60 Hz. And it's the same thing that makes these engines have to be different. This is an ocean and sea standard, so these devices have different parameters. And that's why it's a very specialized production. I am talking about this because it is well known that building ships is much more complicated than building cars just because of the number of components and their mutual relations. With this greater attention, we see the great effort this government makes in these matters, firstly, by creating a new ministry only for these matters, only for maritime affairs, maritime transport, and secondly, by completely real action. And for the first time today, for the first time, we see such a real action that a group of people who sit there has worked out. This is a powerful effort, for which you just have to thank them. And let's give it up, Minister, how it all works out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u296	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow after the votes on point two. And I'd like us to consider another point today. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The text of the Act is contained in print No 230 and the report of the Commission In print No 230 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Przemysław Błaszczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u297	Mr. Marshal, Blaszczyka. [[I'm sorry, Tiny.]] Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! The law was examined at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development yesterday. The Act concerns the amendment of the Act on the promotion of the sustainable development of the fishing sector with the participation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. The bill was a parliamentary project. The Act is very expected by the fishing environments, because it will allow the mobilisation of funds from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and related programmes. According to the Act which was adopted in 2015... Well, it turns out that the provisions of this law limit the possibility of running programs. This amendment is not long, it has not given rise to any more discussion at the committee meeting. It introduces a change indicating the Agency for Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation as an intermediate body and as a managing authority for part of the priorities. Legal acts are also regulated at the level of regulations to clarify the catalogue of beneficiaries of aid and to specify the modalities, conditions, deadlines and detailed requirements to be laid down in the European Fund's co-financing agreements. The Act also lays down rules on the control of beneficiaries and the reimbursement of funds, whether overpaid or wrongly charged or mis-used. As I said, the committee did not hold much discussion and asks for the bill to be adopted together with 8 amendments. 6 of these amendments are legislative amendments proposed by the Bureau, which have been taken over. I'm asking the Senate to adopt this bill of amendment. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u298	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the room: No.]] Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna waste any valuable time on ladies and senators. I would just like to point out certain factual conditions relating to the adoption of this law. Namely, in 2013, the European Commission completed its work on a powerful operational programme: Fisheries and the sea. It is already in force in Poland, is implemented and implemented since 2014. This will take place by 2020. The Act under consideration by the High Senate is intended to facilitate, speed up the processing of applications submitted by our Polish fishermen. It also aims to simplify certain procedures. We want to run these measures, which the Polish side already owns under the "Fishing and Sea" programme as soon as possible, and hand them over to our fishermen. By the way, I would like, if I may, to thank the High Senate for its exemplary proceding yesterday. I was really impressed by the committee work, the huge culture of proceding this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u300	Thank you. Stay here for a while. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Yes.]] Senator Piech. You're welcome. [[I have a question...]] [[Voice from the room: I was the first.]] I don't know who was first. Mr. Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u301	I have a question for the Minister. Fisheries, as you know, is limited by fishing quotas. Do Polish fishing boats operate only on the Baltic Sea, or on other waters also appear and do they have the consent of the European Commission?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u302	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The operational programme "Fishing and Sea" is currently aimed at operating our fishing units in the Baltic Sea. Our fishermen are currently fishing on other seas, specifically on the ocean at Morocco's height, but these quotas are extremely low. We are currently working, these are quite intense diplomatic procedures, so that higher fishing quotas can be obtained. Mr Senator touched on an extremely sensitive issue related to Polish but also EU fisheries. Unfortunately, the European Commission has since started dealing with fisheries issues, perhaps under-thinking the relationship between research, environmental care and some economic efficiency, which is linked to the operation of fisheries or the whole fisheries sector. The catch limits are indeed very low and, unfortunately, from what the Commission is proposing at the moment or already officially announcing, they will remain at the same low level. On the one hand, the Commission increases with a light hand the catch limits for pelagic fish. On the other hand, it reduces the catch limits for cod, including for Poland, this basic fish, which is the backbone of the fishing activities of Polish fishermen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u305	Minister, a brief question: is this law, whether this novel also applies to inland fishing? It is about the cultivation of freshwater fish, e.g. carpi Doesn't he have anything to do with him?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u306	This law concerns fishing at open sea. What you're asking the senator is a question. so-called. aquaculture. We are currently preparing regulations for the operational programme to create a new pawn in the Polish fishing industry, which will be dedicated to producers operating in the aquaculture area. This is Which I would like to assure you and at the same time make a declaration The great challenge for our ministry, personally for Minister Marek Gróbiarczyk, who, in addition to being a constitutional minister, is above all an excellent specialist in this field, in this industry. It's a big challenge, but it's also a big priority. I think that in the second half of this year these implementing regulations for aquaculture will already be issued and we will be able to start a long-term, multi-annual programme for the construction of aquaculture in Poland. I would add that many European Union countries are currently building their fisheries or the whole fisheries branch, based on aquaculture. This is the future. The resources of the seas, oceans, also due to international regulations that arise from environmental conditions, are limited, so at the moment all countries that seriously think about meeting food needs are focusing on aquaculture. This can be seen in Iceland, for example, in the Mediterranean countries. Aquaculture is at the moment a priority in the world and we are making efforts, we are working to ensure that it also exists in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u307	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u308	Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for those kind words at the Senate. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Krzysztof Kozłowski: Reasonable, Senator.]] With Senator Borowski, we even had such a common opinion for a second that you were probably the first time in the Senate, since you reacted so vividly that it was so nice here. In substance, I would like to ask you this question. You said that the European Commission did not see or see certain problems. I would like to know what you have done for a year so that the Commission can see this. How are you trying to position us in these discussions that are probably multi-stage and need to create a majority that can affect the European Commission? What did you do to reverse that negative trend you were talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u309	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u310	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, for the first time in my life, I have indeed had the great honor and honor of performing here in the plenary room, but I have had this great pleasure in sitting with the Senate committees. That's the question... Perhaps otherwise, the answer to the senator's question requires a certain distinction. That is to say, fishing quotas and rules for fisheries policy, particularly in the Baltic Sea, have been determined for a period of 4 years by the provisions of the Operational Programme "Fishing and Sea', which in turn is the implementation of such a powerful Community regulation establishing a Community or European fisheries policy. And we must now move within this framework and within those limits which have already been adopted, approved and accepted by the Member States in the preparation of the European or Community fisheries policy as regards our country. I'm sorry to say It's not very happy. And this is a question of, like, a kind of building up the normative functioning of fishing. Of course, every year, the European Commission is reviewing the catch quotas within the framework and so-called. national envelopes, and the existing transfer system. The debate is currently underway in the European Union. Most likely in September or October We're still waiting for a deadline. There will be a meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, Agrifish. And here Poland will present a very constructive position. On the one hand, we will put forward a position that takes into account the needs and environmental requirements and the need to protect the species of cod, on the other hand we will make it very clear that our fisheries do not oppose environmental protection and the protection of the species of this fish. This is the great value of our fishing, that we have family fishing, small fishing, which does not affect the cod stocks too strongly. That's it, if the senator wishes to accept...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u311	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Pakkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u312	There is a common problem with the great reproduction of seals. This is the problem of fishermen from the estuary of the Vistula, the Vistula mine, the bay... Are you planning on doing anything within this... because the seal population is probably too big and catching some noble, big fish in this area is simply impossible?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u313	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u314	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this problem is also, as I would stress, extremely complex. Well, I wasn't wrong about the excellent preparation of senators and the substantive way of discussing. On the one hand, we are obliged by international law to maintain certain standards of seal quality protection and beyond these standards we cannot go out. This is a protected species. and particularly protected in the Baltic Sea area, not to mention the Southern Baltic area. It's a little different in the west of the water. We are also aware that the growing population of seal stocks can affect fishing or even fishing activities, such as fishing, in the Vistula mine and the waters north of it, that it may hinder this activity. The Operational Programme "Fishing and the Sea," which at the moment, with the permission of the High House, we will implement or facilitate its implementation, provides for the possibility for fishermen to obtain compensation, whose income is reduced due to the widespread protection of seals, to a wide range of this protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u315	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Błaszczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u316	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I, for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, took part in this meeting with the committee... I mean with the equivalent of the committee, because there was no such committee dealing with fishing and fishing. During the discussion, I addressed the problem of our inland fishing, aquaculture. The European Commission and the European Parliament did not do this at all at the time. They were doing... it was all focused more on sea fishing. Only our domain was... That's why I brought it up. That's why I'm asking the Minister if this approach has changed. This statement by the Minister shows that it has changed and that now Parliament and the European Commission are putting more emphasis on inland fishing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u317	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u318	Thank you very much. Indeed, a certain change in accents is noticeable. To date, the European Commission or EU bodies have not given weight, have not taken extensive legislative action in the case of aquaculture, due to the fact that Baltic resources... Not so much was exhausted as a significant reduction. Thus, the countries in the Baltic Sea basin naturally had to pay attention to aquaculture. [[Yeah, that's right. I also remember that Spain didn't want to...]] Oh, no, because Spain has its... They have warm water, so-called. fertile water, so they don't have a problem with that. The Member States implementing the European fisheries policy have quite a wide margin on what to spend on this programme or on this policy. Of course, they can spend their entire allocation on marine or deep sea fishing, but they can also allocate it to aquaculture. What the senators, I hope, will enable us, in accepting this presentation, will be a summary of what we will be able to start the process of building aquaculture in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u319	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people asking questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Krzysztof Kozłowski: Thank you very much, Mr Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held tomorrow after the second point, around 9 o'clock. It's 30 and 10 a.m. Please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u320	I kindly inform you that the thirty-first meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee will be held on 22 July at 8.30 p.m. in room 179. Message two. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted at the 23rd Senate meeting to the Constitutional Tribunal will be held today in room 217 immediately after the adjournment is announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-20-senat-23-1.u321	Thank you very much. I would like to thank all of you for speeding up the last two points. Thank you, ministers. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 19]]
