ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u1	Resume session. I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings Catherine Osos, Wojciech the King, Arkadius Myrcha and Arkadiusz the Marchewka. In the first part of the session, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot and Mr Wojciech Król will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Catherine Osos and Wojciech the King. Are there communications? I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.15, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 13, - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 16, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 19, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 7:30. The Commission for Communication with Poles Abroad invites you to the conference entitled: The Great Hunger in Ukraine in the years 1932-1933 and the Polish victims, which will take place today, 1 December, in the conference room. Jack Curonia at 3 p.m. 10. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 12, - Parliamentary S6 and S11 expressway construction team - hour 14, - Parliamentary Team for the Construction of the Express Road S6 Szczecin - Gdańsk - hour 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Eastern Poland - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: cooperative rights - h.m. 16.15, - Parliamentary Group for: Digitalization of Hospitals and Medical Centres - hour 17, - Parliamentary Team for Decent, Community and Inclusive Organising in 2018 of the 100th anniversary of the Recovering of Independence by Poland - hour. 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u3	Thank you, sir. High Seym! I have some unusual information to share with your House - a group of clerics from a seminary from Łomża is currently listening to the Sejm. I'm so glad to see you. [[Applause]] The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by so-called. ISIS/Dasz. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. The formal proposal is made by Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! First the justification, then the conclusion. There is a fivefold scandal at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Firstly, the scandal is that a citizen of another country, namely the United States, who has spent his entire adult life outside Poland, has been appointed to a high position. And this is the first scandal. The second scandal is that this citizen of another country has been entrusted with the following competences: economic diplomacy, American policy and Asian policy. This means that the U.S. citizen was to negotiate, among others. from the USA various trade agreements, which, like e.g. TTIP, they're being processed in these years. The third scandal is that, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Robert Grey's biography, who was less than two months' foreign vice minister, clearly indicated this at the beginning of October - his connection to the United States special services. Yes. If something quacks like a duck, walks like a duck, lays eggs like a duck, it's probably a duck. And what does it turn out to be? The fourth scandal, ladies and gentlemen, is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs responded in an outrageous manner, arrogantly, among others, by a letter from Deputy Minister Dziedziczak. Writing that there's no reason to question Mr. Robert Grey's political loyalty because the United States is our ally. It's like it's all working out. And the fifth scandal is that, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday it turned out, and we know this from the press releases that find confirmation in various sources that Mr. Robert Grey was dismissed for being [[♪ The bell ♪]] A secret collaborator of U.S. Special Forces.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u5	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u6	Therefore, I request that this meeting be closed and that a special meeting be held on this occasion only, because it is a powerful affair of Polish diplomacy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Voice from the opposite.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u7	Mr Winnicki's speech was not a formal proposal. I warn you that this is the last time I allow you to do so. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] [[Why? We have a scandal in diplomacy.]] Sir, the scandal is that you're acting like this, violating the Sejm's rules consciously. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Bravo!]] Please leave the podium. [[Applause]] [[Marshal, can I have two sentences?]] Mr President, there is no question. Sit down. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We would like to return to the discussion of item 49 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a parliamentary draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the reactivation of municipal authorities in Radom, Kielce, Lublin and Piotrków. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 1076. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 1076, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 418 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, no two abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the reactivation of municipal authorities in Radom, Kielce, Lublin and Piotrków. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending certain laws on health and safety of the service. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act No 1069. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 1069, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. Everyone voted in favour. The Sejm unanimously passed a law amending certain laws on health and safety of the service. We return to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1081. The question is asked by Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u8	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, better late than never. The Polish People's Party, the Minister, was making a similar bill some time ago. We called on the local authorities to compensate for the losses they suffered from leaving 6-year-old children in kindergartens earlier, and therefore, on behalf of local governments, Minister, thank you. Thank you for finally having this law, and the Polish People's Party will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Room voice: Oh, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u9	That wasn't a question. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 1081, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 423 votes in favour, no one voted against, one member abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on the income of local government units and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 31 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. In the only amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the article. 105b and Art. 105c Act on VAT on goods and services. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. The absolute majority is 213. The vote was 17 against - 407. The Sejm accepted the amendment. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - on the amendment of the Law on Assembly, - amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The reports shall be printed in 1083 and 1068 respectively. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for the second reading of these projects. These are according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 The adoption of the proposal to complete the agenda for these items will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Here the formal proposal, to these points, I understand, is made by Mr Andrzej Halicki from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're at a very important moment. You want to report today to the committee an amendment to the Assembly Act without consulting, without thinking and, in fact, against you, also against yourself. It's an assassination attempt on democracy. You'll be in opposition sooner than you think. You're gonna make it harder for yourselves. [[Applause]] 'Cause your postulates from last year are in the trash. I appeal to you: there is no president, he is sick, think about it. I'm bringing it in on the basis of an article. 184 for a break for the club to consult, because this amendment violates the article. 31 of our constitution, an article on freedom of assembly... [[That's good. That's good.]] ...and art. 11th European Convention on Human Rights. We're being monitored by Mr. Muiznieks, who visited your marshal not long ago. We assured him that the amendments of last year in this law meet the standards that are expected of us. In what light are you today - yourselves and Mr. Marshal - after these declarations that were not so long ago in the Marshal's office? Let us not send this project - a draft of evil, breaking democracy, breaking civil rights - to the committee. Think about what you're doing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u11	Thank you very much. I merely wanted to inform you that the chairman of both committees, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, as regards Assembly Law and the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, formally asked me to put this on the agenda and therefore I submit this to the High House. Mr Halicki, I am addressing Mr Halicki, he is not here - and I am reading your statement - in violation of the Sejm's rules. [[Constitution.]] [[Constitution.]] The reports presented by the High Chamber have been received, each of the Members may have been familiar with them, and since they are the letters of the chairmen of the committee, I am submitting these proposals to the High House for a decision. On the other hand, as far as the formal application is concerned, I understand that this is about a break for the Civic Platform Club... [[No.]] ...because when it comes to a break for another club, this is actually an unusual situation and therefore I have this proposal... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You wanted to explain? Please... [[...an article of the Constitution, and this is the second reading, passing on to the second reading. Not the rules...]] I understand, I understand, Mr Halicki, that in this matter the Sejm will make the decision. [[Let's not send this project...]] Each of your fellow Members may have a separate opinion on this subject. [[What about the president? And the president?]] The Sejm will take the decision by a majority, so that I am very sorry. Is there a motion against, or should I call a recess? [[Game in the O.R.]] Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[There's an objection.]] There's an objection. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on this proposal. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But you do not need to justify the proposal. [[Back, goodbye.]] It's obvious, as the classic says. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] So I will put this request for a break to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 163 votes against - 259, 4 abstentions. The motion was not accepted. We therefore proceed with the vote on print report 1083. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Assembly, prints 1044 and 1083, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 229 against - 193. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on print report 1068. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, 1047 and 1068, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. There were 262 votes against and 159 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. I propose that in discussions on these items on the agenda, the Sejm should listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 mins 25 hours 9 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Right to [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] the additional question shall be raised only by the Member asking the question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Let's get to the questions. Information on current questions included on the agenda of the 31st meeting of the Polish Sejm on 1 December. Mr Marek Kwitek, Mr Krzysztof July, Mrs Maria Zuba, Mr Dominik Tarczyński and Mr Michał Cieślak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This is a question about the modernisation of railway lines forming the Eastern Railway Bus to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will answer. You are the first question to be asked by Marek Kwitek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government's decision to modernise the railway lines forming the Eastern Railway Magistrala is of great importance to the inhabitants of the Eastern Poland voivodships. Thanks to the implementation of a number of investments in railway infrastructure, a modern WMK will be created connecting the voivodship cities of eastern Poland: Olsztyn - Białystok - Lublin - Kielce - Rzeszów. The creation of a single railway route is an opportunity to exit from the economic hole, as this area was greatly neglected during the PO-PSL coalition's reign due to the electoral preferences of its inhabitants. The bus is to connect the least developed regions of our country, which will open up investment opportunities for them. This will increase the economic competitiveness of the macro-region, which will allow faster economic growth and improve the quality of life of the inhabitants. Investment activities of PLN 6.5 billion will be undertaken in the coming years, according to the assumptions. This is an opportunity to increase the share of rail transport in freight transport, which is expected by both entrepreneurs and agricultural producers. Citizens are also waiting for the creation of a convenient network of passenger connections, for which modernised lines will mean a radical shortening of travel times. Rail transport will lighten the road, reduce the negative impact of road transport on the environment. I am particularly pleased with the announcement of the government about the priority treatment of investments in eastern voivodships, because here the negligence was the greatest, as on line 25 from Sandomierz to Skarżyska-Kamienna, which will constitute an important route of the Eastern Railway Bus. It is in Świętokrzyskie voivodship that the most important industrial plants are located along the railway line - the arms industry in Skarżysk-Kamienna, numerous plants in the thriving special economic zone in Starachowice, MAN plants, the steel industry in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie or the glassworks in Sandomierz. Modernization of the line will allow you to improve logistics in transport and production and transfer transport from roads to tracks. It's also a huge opportunity for food producers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] , producer groups and Sandomierz processing plants in the sadistic pit. At what stage are the documentation of the modernization of the Eastern Railway Bus, especially on line 25 Sandomierz - Skarżysko-Kamienna? What will be the modernisation of the Eastern Railway Bus, in particular line 25 Sandomierz - Skarżysko-Kamienna? What modern technical solutions will be used to increase the technical parameters of the line? When is it planned to complete the work on lines 8, 25, 74 and 78? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u13	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer. I would also ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to try to fit in with your speech within the time limit set for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, Well, I will immediately say that, of course, as far as possible as possible, I will answer these questions as widely as possible. At the same time, I should like to inform you that, given the wide range of questions, I will pass on all the answers to them in writing so that you already have the documents fully in this regard. High Izbo! The implementation of the Eastern Railway Bus is one of the most important priorities of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. The procedure for selecting seven investment options for seven Eastern Poland projects for the years 2014 and 2020 was completed in October this year. These are the following tasks: railway line number 31 on the section: border of the voivodeship - Czeremcha - Hajnówka, i.e. Podlasie voivodship; railway line No 32 on section Białystok - Bielsk Podlaski - Lewki; works on railway line No 52 on section Lewki - Hajnówka; works on railway line No 216 on section Działdowo - Olsztyn; works on railway line No 219 on section Szczytno - Elk and works on railway lines No 68, 565 on section Lublin - Stalowa Wola - Rozwadów, together with electrification. And now more about the question addressed about line 25 in Skarżysko-Kamienna - Sandomierz. As part of the last draft work on railway line No 25 Skarżysko-Kamienna - Sandomierz, a functional-use programme for the selected investment option is currently being prepared. In December this year. it is planned to announce a tender for this task in design and build mode. For the project: works on railway lines No.25.74.78 on section Stalowa Wola - Tarnobrzeg - Sandomierz - Ocice - Padew, the variant is to be selected in December this year. On the other hand, for the project: works on railway lines 68, 565 on the section Lublin - Stalowa Wola - Rozwadów, together with electrification, the announcement of the tender in the form of design and construction took place in April this year, and the signing of the contract with the contractor is planned for the first quarter of 2017. PKP PLK SA plans to announce the tender also in the formula design and build in December 2017 and the signing of contracts with contractors in the fourth quarter of 2017 for the following projects: Line 31 is... So for all the ones I mentioned earlier, after the fourth quarter of next year there will be contracts with contractors. Next, as far as other projects from this programme are concerned, work on the Elk - Korsze railway line together with electrification will be carried out in 2014-2020. In 2017, a call for tender for design is planned, the call for tender will take place at the beginning of 2018. In 2020 a tender for construction works is planned to be opened and settled, which is scheduled to be completed in 2023. Work on the Białystok - Suwałki - Trakiszko railway line - the state border, is being analysed by the possibility of dividing the project into two stages Białystok - Ełk and Elk - Trakiszko. The preliminary analysis showed the validity of the application under the current CEF competition, the Connecting Europe Facility, the first stage, i.e. Białystok - Ełk, the second stage notification Ełk - Trakiszka is planned in the next CEF competition after carrying out additional studies. Work on railway line No 7 Warszawa Wschodnia Obsobowa - Dorohusk at the section Warsaw - Otwock - Dęblin - Lublin, the project will be carried out within the framework of the OP IiŚ 2014. As part of the above project, the eastern bus includes the section Dęblin - Lublin, and the tender for the selection of the contractor of the above section is currently ongoing. The signing of works contracts is planned in the first quarter of 2017, completion of works in 2020. Elektrification of the line Ocice - Rzeszów. In June this year a tender was launched, which includes preparatory work for electrification of the whole section of Rzeszów - Ocice. These two tasks: rebuilding and securing existing electricity and telecommunications networks so as not to interfere with the planned investment and logging of trees, construction works are planned for the years 2017 and 2020. Most of the bus routes are planned to achieve the following parameters: maximum speed - 120 km/h for passenger sections and 100 km/h for freight trains, permissible axle pressure - 221 kN and increased capacity by modernising rail traffic control devices. The electrification of section 38 is also planned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ełk - Korsze, line 68 on the section Lublin - Stalowa Wola and line 78 on the section Ocice - Rzeszów. As I have said, wider responses will be addressed to your Members in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u15	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question from Mr Krzysztof July.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We, Members of the Świętokrzyskie Region, are very pleased to accept the decision of the Government of Law and Justice to build the Eastern Railway Bus. It is not only a question of connecting the regions of Eastern Poland with each other, but it is above all the opening up of these regions to the world and it is a very good decision. For the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, as the Minister said, the railway road No.25 is also important in this bus. I wanted to ask you about the Western episode. Although the Minister did not address this issue, it is also important for us to restore in full this important rail road, which was a crucial moment in the infrastructure of the Central Industrial District. It's about the section from Skarżysk-Kamienna, further west. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to Łódź through Opoczno, especially in the context of electrification of the section Skarżysko-Kamienna - Opoczno. Can we hope that the work in this section will also be taken into account by the Government of Law and Justice? This is above all an opening for the CMK.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u17	Thank you, sir. And please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The construction, modernization and sometimes the construction of railway lines that form the eastern bus, is - I completely agree - one of the key tasks, key projects and really these key visions of modernization, reconstruction of railway lines in Poland. This line, which Mr Sandomierz mentioned, is being examined from Sandomierz towards Łódź, and today I am unable to present any specific dates that we could say will start next year and will continue for 2 or 3 years and will lead to a profound modernisation of this particular section that you mentioned. At the moment, however, work on the railway plan has been completed, but this does not mean that it is completely closed to the end of the whole perspective. We very much hope that in terms of savings, so-called. tender savings, i.e. as a result of the need to spend less money on individual investments already planned today, we will be able to undertake further tasks, and I hope that one of these tasks will be what you are asking for and what you are asking for. I will already allow very specific and technical information to be sent to the High Sejm in writing to clarify all the doubts and all the questions that have been put here in very detail. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u19	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Member State Krzysztof Gadowski and Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka and Paweł Bańkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform, ask a question about the elimination of mines, jobs and payment of the monetary equivalent for the right to free coal for pensioners and miners. Question for the Minister of Energy. Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy. The first questions are asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski and Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In view of the acceptance by the European Commission of the aid scheme relating to the decommissioning of mines, the decommissioning of jobs, and this includes, among other things, the adoption of the aid scheme. - as the minister's announcement - the Jas-Mos mine, the Anna Movement, which in 2016 were handed over to the Company for Restructuring of Mine, Movement Room, KWK Sośnica, Rydultowy Movement, Ruch Śląsk, KWK Krupiński and KWK Makoszowy, I wanted to ask the Minister what is the timetable for the liquidation of these mines when the Krupiński mine and Makoszowy mine are liquidated. Krupinski Mine has closed aid after 2016. I would like to ask, how many jobs have been permanently decommissioned from 1 January to the end of the year, how many jobs will be permanently decommissioned by 2018 in mining? I understand that some people are going through, but we're permanently eliminating jobs by shutting down mines. When will Krupinski mine and Makoshov mine be destroyed? I would also like to ask what is the monetary equivalent and what is the programme for Silesia about the economic activation of this region.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u21	Minister, you said 9 June this year. During the parliamentary debate, we should have a full project before the new budget, taking into account the broader aspect of pensions related to deputies. There was a limit date of January 1, 2017. There were promises, we have a huge mess. Hence my questions. At what stage is the government's coal-deputy project for pensioners and miners? Will the date of entry into force of the Act be respected - promised on 1 January 2017? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what measures does the government intend to allocate to the payment of the equivalent in 2017?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u22	Thank you. And please respond to Minister Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to notification, the list of names of individual movements or mines presented by the European Commission is, on the one hand, linked to the decisions to transfer entities to the SRK, as the Member rightly pointed out, Jas-Mos or the Movement Anna. The notification shall also cover decisions which have been taken in previous years, from 2007 to 2016, and thereafter - 2018. As regards the Sośnica mine and the Silesian mine, because this year, last year too, for these mines was the year when they achieved a negative result, in the reporting that was presented to the European Commission, these mines were included in the programme and in January we will decide how long Sośnica, as part of its programme which is currently underway, is beginning to realise the possibilities of exiting the technically and economically difficult situation. As far as the Silesian mine is concerned, we also originally considered that the extraction of the walls that are currently armed should take place around the six-month period, but perhaps this period will shift. Hence, the dates that appeared there were due to the estimates that we submitted during the period until September this year. As for these two mines, as I mentioned, we will continue to talk in the context of assessing the situation - one in January and the other in Silesia, in December this year and in the beginning of the future. As for the Makoszowy mine, we have a decision from the European Commission that the financing for the activity which today is not profitable and has not been profitable for the previous years either, in 2015 and 2016, makes it possible for the mine to operate since 1 January but without the aid for public aid. The European Union has made a decision - we have still negotiated in the last days before this decision - in view of the fact that we are conducting a restructuring process and we are introducing certain programmes related to, for example, the regulation of the sales market and the market for individual operators in the hard coal sector. It was found, among others. also through the OKD complaint that we are placing subsidised coal on the market. Secondly, there was also information that flowed from the environments of the Makoszowy mine to Brussels that this mine was starting to go straight and there is an interpretation, the government has a kind of different - some people representing the social side thought that the mine was already on the straight side, and this also caused among others. this difficult dialogue with Brussels and the decision that the mine can operate from 1 January. On the other hand, we have a problem with funding, and here really there is a big problem when it comes to the Makoszowy mine. As for the Krupinski mine, today we have a general meeting of shareholders. It was interrupted a few days ago due to a certain opinion of the brokerage office of PKO BP. We asked for interpretation, the position of PKO BP's board of directors for today's general meeting due to the fact that among others. PKO BP is the entity which is very strongly involved in the coal sector, because also in the Katowice holding company, and in the Polish Mining Group, as well as in Jastrzębska Węglowa Company. In Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa PKO BP is one of the signatories of the restructuring agreement. Among other things, after submitting documents and a series of studies concerning each mine, but also the Krupiński mine, because it has been covered by special expertise, because there is a problem of further investments in the deck, in a certain deposit of coke, it was decided to... At least it's like it's not debatable that we're going to get an energy deposit that's prepared. On the other hand, PKO BP, among others. as one of the entities involved in this process, it did not foresee and see no chance of further expansion of this part of the coke mine Krupiński. Therefore, the decision of the brokerage office assessed that, in view of certain price movements on the market, it might appear that this investment could have been taken into account. This opinion did not indicate that this should be done. It caused a certain stir, especially as regards the social side, so we decided that we would ask the board. Today, PKO is to respond to this, PKO BP as one of the shareholders will present its opinion. At the general assembly today, the future fate of the Krupinski mine will be determined. As regards the issue of workers and the cover programme, I would like to say that at the end of September 30 in coal mining are employed - whether they were - because I am talking about 9 months, I am presenting data for this period - 84 702 people, i.e. 94.2% in relation to the total employed on 21 December, so we can say that about 4 000. people with pennies have left with appropriate briefings. In a similar period last year, employment decreased by 8634 people, while this year decreased per balance, overall, by 6652 people, so as we would compare the previous period, these departures from mining were far more than that is the case, although now there is this cover program. As regards admissions, we accepted 1430 people, and in the same period last year 463 people were accepted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, if I may, I will answer your question about the equivalent. I would like to add that as far as the programme for the Silesian Voivodeship is concerned, this programme was developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development - but it must be said that the Regional Council of Social Dialogue, employers, social side, members of the Council - and submitted to the Ministry of Development within the framework of the Polish Sustainable Development Programme, the programme for Silesia. It is currently being supplemented, among others. by the Ministry of Energy, certain sub-programmes, because this programme for the voivodship is to become a programme included in the regional development programme of the Śląskie voivodship. On the other hand, today's situation regarding restructuring, this whole process, seems to be in the Silesian voivodship to the advantage of the labour market, that we have an unemployment rate of 6.7%. in our voivodship, while in the country it is 8.3%. Recent information from the conference on jobs shows that there is a shortage of people in the labour market and among others. people moving to early retirement can find themselves in other parts of the economy, because today there is quite a lot of suction when it comes to the Silesian voivodship. Therefore, this time is quite good for such a restructuring process to be carried out, because there is no risk of damage to employment. Early retirement workers who wish to be still working could also find themselves in this labour market. There is one limit: people who take leave cannot work and continue to operate in the hard coal sector. This seems quite obvious, because in previous years it was rightly suggested that these people should not return through companies around the mining industry or persons employed in other mines. As far as the question you have raised regarding deputies is concerned, actually, by June our ministry submitted, after consulting the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u24	Minister, go to the end, because time is up. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...after consulting the Ministry of Finance - I'm almost done, I'm sorry - an appropriate project. It provides for almost 400 million funds to be allocated to this programme. After the change of the Minister of Finance, because we know that there has been a change in the autumn period, there has been a proposal from the new Minister of Finance - and we consult this, among others. with the social side - so that by the end of the year, at the turn of December and January, you can pay out once to all entitled about 8 and 9 thousand. zł equivalent in advance, as if forward, in 7, 8 years, and close the case once. Among other things, last Monday we had another meeting with the social side and there were voices from the community that submitted the citizens' project that they would not necessarily be in favour of this solution. I think we're gonna settle this in the next two weeks... Minister... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: ...and submit it to the Social Dialogue Council. So, if not once, we would proceed with this project at the end of the year at the Social Dialogue Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Excuse me, Marshal. Thank you, Minister. Thank you for this comprehensive and long answer. But the additional question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I specifically ask you to give me a date when the draft law on equivalence for all pensioners and miners will appear. Next question: Is it true that the Board of Directors of Tauron Extraction plans to liquidate deputies for their pensioners? Is it related to the poor financial condition of this company and will they also be covered by this law? Has this bill included our demands to increase the basis for calculating prices, as for other retirement groups or railroaders? And are you planning on buying out deputies for other retirement groups, e.g. for the railroads?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u26	Minister! What is the recommendation of the government to the representative of the government at the extraordinary meeting of shareholders of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, today, which will decide the liquidation of the Krupiński mine? You're talking about the problem with the Makoshov mine, there's a problem. What's the way to solve the problem by you, by the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u27	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. And I'm asking you to fit in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As far as Tauron is concerned, I'm not familiar with the information, and I can't confirm that Tauron wants out. As far as I can tell, he should rather carry out deputies, but I will check it out later, sir, because I do not have such knowledge. On the other hand, our project does not foresee - once the Member has asked - that we do not expect railroads to be included, our project covers the whole hard coal sector. It would be true that if the law actually comes into force - whether it's a one-off briefing or that bill we've prepared in the Ministry - then Tauron will also be included in the extraction, because the whole hard coal sector is provided for in this law. Not only those who fail, like the hawk company, or KHW suspended, or PGG, but also Tauron, who executes deputies. All this will be covered either by a one-off payment, or in the project of spending and one-off addition of the annual payment by the Social Security Office. But I think by Christmas, we should... Earlier - by a week or two - we should have a decision as to whether the social side will agree so that we can make a single payment at the turn of the year of less than 400,000. persons who are entitled to this deputy. If we do not receive such consent, we will rather go before Christmas with this option, which was prepared at the Ministry of Energy. As far as the recommendation is concerned, I do not know such a recommendation, because I do not have ownership supervision at the Ministry of Energy, hence I do not have the knowledge of what will be the decision of the Ministry, which is one of the shareholders at the general meeting. On the other hand, yesterday we received an appropriate opinion from PKO. It was also presented late in the evening, actually at hours at night. 12 at the committee meeting, where a representative of the supervisory board, who also received this material, presented it initially. I think that there will still be a permanent consultation, as PKO will recommend as one of the signatories to the restructuring agreement, since PKO is a very important entity which decides today at the general meeting on these decisions. As for the Makoshów, as we talked about yesterday, we have quite a problem - I do not hide it - because after withdrawal of the grant agreement and in connection with the emerging information that Makoshowy does not fully cling economically, as some have presented it, we will have a big problem with the future of Makoshów at the beginning of the year. On the one hand, because the investor who should appear should allocate more than PLN 200 million to pay public aid, and I do not know - we will also analyse it - whether all Makoszowy are able to invest in their business in the months-term, so that they can possibly try to balance themselves in sales. Appears, does not hide, big problem in December [[♪ The bell ♪]] and these decisions should be made at the turn of the year. Surely it will not be so that suddenly there will be a decision day by day, but we do have a fairly complex problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u29	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Paweł Szramka, Mr Maciej Masłewski and Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15, on drastic increases in the insurance of the OC - a question addressed to the Minister of Finance. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Piotr Nowak will answer. Mr Paweł Szramka is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u30	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In view of the guidelines provided by the Commission for Financial Supervision, the value of the CC insurance contributions increased by 20% in 2015 and by up to 30% in 2015, while in the first quarter of 2016 we saw another increase in the CC contribution of around 20%. In addition, they also increased by around 14%. contributions to autocasco insurance. The situation has been very worrying to citizens, as we see practically every day, reading their calls for intervention. I am aware that the situation may not be clear and the problem may be complex, but it is my duty, on behalf of the citizens, to ask the reasons for this. I therefore ask you to indicate whether it is the law or whether it is on the side of insurance companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u31	Thank you. I ask Minister Piotr Nowak to answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that OC and AC motor insurance represent a significant part of the business of property insurance undertakings, the Financial Supervision Commission pays particular attention to the profitability in this area of insurance. In view of the fact that this activity has caused a technical loss in recent years, KNF called on insurance undertakings on 28 September 2015 to correctly determine the insurance premium, i.e. in such a way as to ensure that it is adequate to the obligations under the insurance contract and to the costs of the insurance business performed. The supervisory authority recommended insurance undertakings, inter alia.: review and change of premium tariffs in line with current incurred risks and costs per sales segment, including in the calculation of the cost premiums related to changes in injury elimination, review of policies on the applied discount schemes, increase of the insurance premium. The supervisory authority in the call expected insurance undertakings to take the above actions without undue delay, ensuring a long-term adjustment to the requirements of the laws of the motor vehicle owners' liability. The legal provisions provide that, in accordance with the Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 11 September 2015 on Insurance and Insurance Activities, the insurance undertaking shall determine the amount of insurance premiums after the assessment of the insurance risk. The insurance premium shall be set at a rate which ensures at least the performance of all insurance contract obligations and the cost of carrying out the insurance undertaking's business and according to the criteria set out in the general insurance conditions, in particular as regards discounts or increases in the basic amounts. The insurance undertaking is required to collect appropriate statistics to determine the amount of insurance premiums and technical provisions on their basis. In addition, on the basis of Article. 8 Act of 22 May 2003 on compulsory insurance, Insurance Fund Guarantee and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances tariff and the amount of insurance premiums for compulsory insurance shall be determined by the insurance undertaking. However, in any event, the establishment of the compulsory insurance premiums tariff or their modification shall provide the supervisory authority with information on those tariffs and on the basis of their determination within 14 days of the date on which the earliest possible conclusion of the compulsory insurance contract with the premium calculated on the basis of them was possible on a new basis. This information should include, in particular, an analysis of the damage and the cost of providing insurance to justify any change in the tariff. The primary and main task of the communication OC insurance is to protect potentially injured third parties. Rules of law introducing, inter alia, the possibility of seeking compensation for the death of a loved one with a limitation period of up to 20 years, and recent developments in the case law of the Supreme Court are therefore aimed at ensuring the fullest possible protection for victims of accidents or persons entitled to compensation. This in turn results in an increase in compensation payments. The amount of compensation for personal injury and the death of the nearest person, the amount of the pension granted or the reimbursement of the rental costs of the replacement vehicle is also increasing. The so-called activity also remains important. compensation firms providing legal assistance to victims of claims against insurance undertakings. In addition, a draft bill was recently prepared by the Senate of the Republic of Poland aimed at introducing the liability of the Insurance Guarantee Fund for damage to accidents from the 1990s, those of the last century, where the guarantee amount has already been exhausted and this guarantee fund is financed by insurance companies. All this increases the value of compensation and other benefits paid by insurers. The fact that in recent years there has been a lack of balance between the contributions charged under the communication liability insurance contracts with the compensations paid and the operating costs of insurance undertakings shows the technical result in this insurance. In recent years it is definitely negative, which means that insurance companies are losing out on this activity. In recent years, this loss has evolved as follows. For three quarters of 2016, i.e. now, there are 806 million losses, in 2015 there were PLN 1056 million losses, in 2014 - PLN 782 million losses, etc. So for the last 6 years, the loss in this insurance amounted to over PLN 4 billion. Losses reported by insurance undertakings mean that the premiums collected in this insurance were not sufficient to cover all insurance obligations and to cover the costs of carrying out insurance activities. As far as AC insurance is concerned, the cumulative technical result in this insurance for the last 6 years is positive and amounts to PLN 1072 million. In this insurance there was a decrease in technical profit and a one-year loss of PLN 113 million in 2015, i.e. a total loss of PLN 2368 million in these two OC and AC insurances for 6 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u33	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Maciej Masłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u34	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, maybe I didn't hear you. Further information from concerned citizens shows that this is only the beginning of increases in contributions to OC and AC. Following further recommendations from the Financial Supervision Commission, contributions are expected to increase by a further 20% by the end of the year. Therefore, please answer whether further recommendations of the Financial Supervision Commission are planned, which will consequently oblige insurers to apply further increases in their contributions to OC and AC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u35	Thank you, and I'm asking for your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u36	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, As regards the additional question, in addition to the above-mentioned September 2015 call. KNF had already adopted guidelines on the resolution of communication damages on 16 December 2014, which indicated the expectations of supervisory authorities regarding the prudent and stable management of the area of the resolution of communication insurance damages due to irregularities found in the course of supervision, such as the chronicity of winding-up proceedings, infringements of the rules of full compensation, deficiencies in information obligations in the course of the elimination of the damage or the defective organisation of the injury elimination process itself. This document issued by the KNF contains 21 guidelines divided into the following areas: organisation, management, supervision and control of the process of eliminating damage to motor insurance, way of conducting winding-up proceedings, way of determining the amount of the benefit. The supervisory authority expected the implementation of the guidelines by insurance undertakings operating in the field of compulsory insurance of motor vehicle holders by 31 March last year - 2015. At the same time, due to the increasing value of benefits paid by insurers under the so-called. on 21 June 2016, it issued recommendations on the process of determining and paying compensation for non-material damage to the holders of motor vehicles by way of insurance contracts for the nearest person for the death of the injured person. These recommendations meet the need to ensure predictability in the process of determining and paying compensation for non-material damage, given that the legal provisions do not contain the criteria to be followed when determining the amount of compensation. Standards indicated in the above mentioned above. recommendations should be implemented by insurance undertakings by the end of this year. At the moment, it is difficult to predict whether the above recommendations and guidelines of the Financial Supervision Authority will affect further increases in the contributions to the Communication OC insurance. As I mentioned earlier in the first question, the technical result in this insurance after three quarters of this year is negative and amounts to PLN 806 million, so it cannot be determined whether the market has been balanced in this respect. And it has to be balanced, because otherwise, as I say, when the loss increases, it threatens the stability of the insurance company at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u37	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Marta Golbik, Ms Kornelia Wróblewska, Ms Ewa Lieder, Mr Adam Szłapka and Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, will ask a question about plans to set up the National Centre for Civil Society Development. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. He will reply under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister Adam Lipiński, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mrs Marta Golbik asks the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u38	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! We have recently heard a announcement about the intention to draw up a bill on the establishment of the National Centre for Civil Society Development and the establishment of the Prime Minister of the Civil Society Department under the authority of the Minister. The task of these institutions is to prepare cooperation projects with non-governmental organisations. The situation in which the government wants to build civil society is contrary to the principle that civil society itself, on its own initiative and on its own initiative and needs, is organised bottom-up and on the basis of open competitions, obtains public and private support for its organisations. I therefore have the following questions for the Minister. Are government institutions entitled to participate in the distribution process of public funds to social organisations? Is there really going to be a concentration in one place of all funding measures for different social organisations? Will the central distribution of funds be contrary to the recommendations of the European Commission and thus not result in a restriction or suspension of European funds to social organisations? How will the Centre ensure the transparency of the distribution of funds to NGOs? What solutions and tools does the Centre intend to use to prevent smaller, weaker organisations seeking public funding from being discriminated against? Whether the Centre will aim to reduce or completely eliminate funding for private social organisations, as has been the case so far in the form of transfers of 1% income tax by citizens? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u39	Thank you, Member. I'm asking the Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u40	Thank you, Marshal. In fact, I could answer very briefly: no, no, no, no, no and no, but I'm going to try to develop it, okay? I know there are a lot of misunderstandings around this center. Unfortunately, the discussion on this issue was on the criticisms of public media towards various NGOs and also on my nomination. I've even been accused of being behind these publications, so at first I'm going to say that I had absolutely nothing to do with it. Besides, we talked about this at the conference with Prime Minister Gliński. I don't know if you've heard, but it's been explained. I will now try to say a few words about the centre to clarify these misunderstandings, and then I will address specific questions. In Poland, the entity responsible for implementing and promoting the solutions adopted in the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering is the Department of Public Benefit under the authority of the Minister responsible for Social Security, i.e. the Minister of the Family. Such a solution makes it possible for the sector to be perceived mainly by social assistance and organisations providing it. In the meantime, the body responsible for the development of the sector should be given an interest in a multi-dimensional set of strategic challenges, including: issues such as guarding, spokes, civic and historical education, volunteering, civic diplomacy, the development of civil media, etc. Currently, there is a lack of an institution that collects data from all ministries and has full information on the extent and types of state support for the development of the third sector, which would allow for analysis and better evidence-based decisions. The first step in this direction was the appointment of a representative of the civil society government, whose tasks include: preparing the draft of this Act. Although I have become a proxy, as this project has been refined, of course I am jointly and severally taking responsibility for this project. The proposed new institution will take over the tasks of the Public Use Department, extending them to new priorities. This solution will provide a horizontal perspective on coordination and monitoring, but not centralisation - there is absolutely no centralisation here, and I will return to that - state support policies for the non-governmental sector, which are difficult to obtain from the department at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. This is important, for example, in the context of the coordination and standardisation of the Ministry's cooperation programmes with non-governmental organisations for which the Ministry is required to implement the law. The establishment of the National Centre for Civil Society Development is intended to create legal, institutional and organisational conditions for the full and efficient use of public funds for the implementation of government civil society development programmes on the basis of openness, competitiveness and transparency, without compromising ministers' competence in the field of departmental programmes. This is a very important point, because we were accused of all the resources from the ministries going to this center. No, there will be absolutely no interference with what the ministries are doing. The draft law sets out the objectives, tasks and organisation of the national development centre and a new division of competences for the development of civil society, including public benefit and volunteering. The draft law also describes the special mode of commissioning public tasks in the centre, very transparent and much more organizational friendly. The intended effects of this regulation are horizontal coordination of policies to support the third sector, increased importance of the development of the third sector, improved communication in the development of the third sector, the creation of inter-ministerial institutional memory that accumulates experience and data currently in dispersal and which are the sole resources of individual ministries. The Centre Act provides for the transfer by the Minister for Social Security of regulatory powers in the field of public benefit and volunteering to the President of the Council of Ministers for the implementation of government grant and operational programmes for civil society of the Centre. The Civil Initiative Fund will therefore be implemented as the Centre's grant programme. The Act introduces clear selection criteria for projects in the competition procedure. Instead of the 26 criteria that currently operate in the Civil Initiative Fund, they will now be 4 and 7 in line with international standards, including sustainability criteria, so that the results of the project will also serve once it is completed. In addition, the Act introduces the principle that the most important criterion for the clearance of projects is the results achieved. The Act also introduces a mechanism for social control over the performance of public tasks. The final decision to grant the grant shall be adopted by a 7-person council in which two seats are reserved for representatives of the Council of Public Benefit Activities. Well, maybe that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u41	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Maybe I'll add something else. You're welcome. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Lipiński: Good. Maybe after the second question. So that's an extra question, right? This is an additional question, please, from Mr Zbigniew Gryglas.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for this response, although we must consider it slightly evasive, because you did not address the questions raised in detail, in particular what the organisation is most concerned about today, namely the issue of financing. All you said was that the principle of funding by individual departments would be maintained. But what will it look like in the details? From these announcements, however, it appeared that there would be a centralisation of funding here and as if a break with the current principle that this issue should be decentralized, because that is the idea. the activities of non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u43	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u44	I'd be happy to answer that question. Thus, according to this project, which is only in the consultation phase - he has not even accepted the legal office yet, so this is really a preliminary phase - which will be consulted at least 16 meetings with NGOs, which will take place in December, January and February. According to the project, the Centre will have directly and exclusively the funds of the FIO, i.e. about PLN 60.70 million, and a special grant, i.e. additional funds, if, of course, this is the decision of the Council of Ministers. These are the only funds the Centre has. However, there will be no interference with what the resorts do, so don't worry about it. This mechanism, which is now, will be maintained. We would just like to introduce a code of good practice, i.e. to harmonise a little of what the ministries do in different ways, absolutely without interfering with what the final decisions of the ministries will be. So two funds directly under the centre, unless the Centre gets any other additional funds. There will be no collection of the money that is currently earmarked for non-governmental organisations. Thank you. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u45	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members Adam Oldakowski, Jerzy Małecki and Jan Duda, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ask a question on the location of industrial poultry farms addressed to the Minister of the Environment. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Minister Mariusz Gajda, will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Adam Oldakowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u46	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Do you know, Minister, that the current way of locating industrial poultry farms due to the lack of spatial planning in local governments is that the investor practically decides where he wants to build such a farm. In addition, it should be noted that the construction of these farms producing millions of poultry is often located in Natura 2000 areas or directly in their vicinity and in nature conservation areas. As a farmer, I am not opposed to the construction of such farms, but in my opinion it is necessary to do everything to ensure that their location does not interfere with the inhabitants of the village where these farms are built, and that they do not endanger the environment, especially when they are built in tourist areas such as Warmia and Mazury. What are you going to do about it, Minister? Or have you already taken steps to counter this chaos in the construction of industrial farms that can be said to grow like mushrooms after the rain? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u47	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! If such farms are located in Natura 2000 areas or close to buildings, I must say that they are illegally located. In accordance with the law in force before the construction of the poultry farm, it is necessary to obtain a number of decisions. The first decision is an environmental decision. She has to be the first. An environmental decision must first be obtained before deciding on the conditions for the construction and development of the site. This environmental decision is made by the governor, the president or the mayor at the request of the investor. And now there are limitations. The limitations are that according to the Act on Access to Information, i.e. the so-called. The evaluation law requires environmental decisions for these farms. The first point is that in Natura 2000 areas, regardless of the size of the farm, it is necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment. This environmental impact assessment shall be carried out and the decision shall be taken together with the Regional Environment Directorate. In addition, if it is a large poultry farm of more than 210 large conversion units or more than 52 500 chicken units, an environmental decision must also be obtained regardless of location and an environmental impact assessment must be carried out. In addition, an environmental impact assessment should be carried out for smaller farms, which are so-called. The second group, from 15,000 pieces to 52 499 exactly. It is also necessary to obtain a decision, but it is up to the governor to decide whether or not to draw up an environmental impact report. If it is near the nature reserve - a distance of 100 m, up to 100 m - if it is 100 m from residential areas, unbuilt urbanised, recreational and leisure areas, it is also necessary to obtain an environmental decision, while the governor decides whether an environmental impact report has to be drawn up. In addition, I would like to make it clear that making decisions on the conditions for the construction and development of the land for each investment belongs to the property of the governor, president or mayor of the city, i.e. it is not that according to law the investor decides himself. This is decided by the local government. It is difficult for me here to say how these procedures are carried out in individual local governments. Perhaps they are carried out unlawfully, which unfortunately happens sometimes. So that these rules that currently exist are quite restrictive provisions, one can say, and individual cases must be dealt with individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u49	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Jerzy Małecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u50	Thank you, Marshal. Minister, let me give you an example. A pig farm within Kłecko town, Gniezno municipality, is being built. This investment has already received a positive opinion of the WDOŚ, at the moment an environmental impact report is being prepared. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry plan to increase control of these state bodies, so that where there are protests of the inhabitants, often consent, as you have said, which the mayor, the uncle or the president gives, is not entirely in line with the will of the inhabitants... Does the Ministry of Environmental Protection have any influence on this? And isn't the Ministry of Environmental Protection considering banning farms in municipalities where there is no spatial planning? This applies to both poultry farms and pig farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u51	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u52	Let me say this: we are really at the moment wondering how to strengthen the supervision of environmental decisions, because on the one hand they are often issued in a way that harms the environment, and on the other hand the investments that are necessary are blocked - i.e. on the other hand, these measures need to be taken. However, with regard to this second question, this prohibition, unfortunately, these matters are generally governed by the Land Planning Act. This Land Planning Act does not mention investments that may be prohibited. Each investment, each decision on the conditions of construction and land development is considered individually. The Ministry or the Minister shall have no effect on the process of obtaining such decisions, other than environmental matters. In the case of environmental matters, of course, this is an indirect impact, consisting of supervision, which we intend to strengthen, and that appeals may be lodged if they are parties to administrative proceedings - i.e. the neighbours of this investment may appeal to the Director General of Environmental Protection. The General Director for Environmental Protection shall then consider this appeal and issue an appropriate decision. I am sure that I thank you for this question, thank you very much, because we will draw the attention of the Director-General for Environmental Protection to make an effort to carefully consider such investments, because - you know - they are bothersome for the environment, not just smelly. Mostly scented, I understand, that's the main reason, but there are also frequent cases that simply investments are carried out in the right way and can cause soil contamination, water contamination. This is where you get the so-called. An integrated decision and later, it is extremely important that such a farm, even if it is created, be subject to - quite frequent inspections by environmental inspectors, because in principle most cases of soil or water contamination come from such large industrial farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u53	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Members: Mr Jarosław Gonciarz, Mr Dariusz Starzycki and Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on the amendment of the Act on State Medical Rescue on the abolition of medical rescue teams with a specialist ambulance doctor. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The draft amendment of the Act on State Medical Rescue involves changes in the organisation and operation of the system of State Medical Rescue. As a result of the changes, more responsibility will be placed on medical lifeguards. Further competences will be required from them, e.g. administration of certain medicines. Can we expect more medical rescue powers, for example, on the administration of certain medicines and the identification of deaths? Does the current number of paramedics help secure the entire system of State Medical Rescue?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u55	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In view of the changes in State Medical Rescue, and in particular in connection with the planned decommissioning of specialised medical emergency teams, some hospital directors as well as the General Medical Council are concerned that such liquidation without the possibility of reaching the site of the system doctor will increase the workload of hospital emergency services doctors and increase the costs of operating these departments and emergency rooms. In this connection, I have a question to the Minister: Has the Ministry therefore carried out an analysis in order to possibly resolve these emerging doubts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u56	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the first question, I would like to say that these changes are a natural consequence of a decrease in the number of doctors who meet the requirements of the system doctor. This is a clear example, the reason for the decrease in the number of specialized teams. In recent years, the number of specialist teams has dropped from over 630 to 580. This is due to the fact that there are not enough doctors who are doctors of emergency medicine, and doctors who meet the requirements of the system doctor in accordance with the Act on State Medical Rescue. In view of this situation, we are forced to react. The first element that showed our response was the amendment of the regulation of 20 April 2016 on medical rescue operations, health services other than medical rescue operations, which may be provided by a medical lifeguard. This amendment was preceded by a very long consultation with the medical rescue community, but also with the nursing community. We must bear in mind that in the system, there are also more than 2,300 emergency nurses in medical rescue teams that meet the requirements of the Act. As far as this regulation is concerned, this scope of competence takes into account the skills of a medical lifeguard acquired during training. It is very important that we have clearly defined the path of training for medical rescuers from undergraduate studies, through six months of practice to the State exam, which will be carried out by the Centre for Medical Examinations, i.e. the rank of this exam is already very high. The range of operations that rescuers can perform, on the one hand, is due to their previous practice and the expansion of... We have to remember that 10 years ago, there were teams in the system without a doctor, which is basic teams. This number of teams is growing steadily. So that this regulation, which was published on 20 April, is the opposite of extending these powers. At the same time, we conclude the procedure of a similar regulation relating to the professional group of nurses and midwives. We are equalizing the privileges of emergency nurses for both the performance of operations and the administration of a much wider catalogue of medicines used in emergency care. This is all connected, of course, with the planned proposals for amendments to the Act on State Medical Rescue. We have now finished gathering comments on this bill. We are in the process of analyzing these comments carefully and we will be planning a concerted conference in order to convey the final shape of these proposals to parliamentary work. It should also be borne in mind that the gradual withdrawal of specialist teams is planned in the 2020 project, which is a relatively long vacathio legis, which will allow us to adapt our education even better. We have included in the bill additional courses that rescuers will have to take in order to acquire additional privileges. These are specialized courses and qualification courses, which correspond to the same courses for the professional group of nurses and midwives. Therefore, this investigation period for such a final version, where there will be no specialised teams, is extended. At the same time, during this consultation, we have a lot of voices from the community of emergency medicine doctors, from employers, that a lot of doctors want to continue working in the system. We analyze an additional solution, so-called. the rendez-vous system, which is a system that operates in many Western countries and the operation of which is that a team with a smaller composition, a double, i.e. without a doctor, i.e. a lifeguard driver and a doctor of the system, in certain special circumstances at the call of an ambulance arrives at the scene and provides appropriate assistance there, so this medical assistance is preserved. As far as the number of rescuers is concerned, there are 14 615 rescue teams working in the system, while - as I said - there are 2300 nurses here, so this number according to our estimates is absolutely enough to ensure the staffing of the medical rescue team. On the other hand, we are not concerned about the increased burden on the SORs, as the Act provides for mandatory hospital medical segregation at the level of hospital emergency services, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will as if distribute patients requiring assistance at the level of the hospital emergency department and patients who will require assistance at the level of POZ or night Christmas aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u58	Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask you an additional question by Mr Jarosław Goncier.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u59	Minister! We're getting more and more signs of patient aggression in relation to paramedics. As the rescuers claim, it is almost everyday for them, perhaps because of the negative image of health care so far. My question: What is the Ministry going to do with this, unfortunately, growing problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe it's not everyday, but it's definitely a huge problem, and we're watching it. It is clear that, regardless of the form of employment, whether it's a contract of employment or a civil law contract, both a system doctor, or a doctor working in a medical emergency team, as well as a paramedic or a system nurse, have legal protection as officers, in terms of police officers or fire department officers. For us, it's completely incomprehensible how you can attack the helpers, but it's definitely that. Also to a significant extent related, this aggression of people is related to their condition, very often they are under the influence of alcohol, boosters or other psychoactive agents. We monitor every such situation directly at the level of the ministry, demand clarification at the place where it happened. That is why we will now try to enter into a closer dialogue with the Ministry of Justice on the basis of these recent events. If the penalty is written, but there is no direct translation, there are no such examples that the person was after such an incident, after such direct aggression, assault on the medical rescue crew punished, there was no, there is no inevitability of this penalty. Even though it's written down, there are no cases that this punishment has been enforced from those people who act completely irrationally in this way. So we will now try, however, to show, of course, that these situations are unacceptable by respecting the independence of the courts. Just as it is not heard of aggression against firefighters or police officers, so these cases of assault on medical rescue workers are absolutely unacceptable, and on our part it will certainly be a very rapid response. At the same time, we can appeal to everyone for consideration in such situations. Well, the appeals themselves won't help, which is why it seems to me that the only solution is to show the inevitability of this punishment, which is enshrined in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u61	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Mirosława Nykiel, Ms Ewa Kołodziej and Mr Marek Hok, the Civic Platform, will ask a question about the project of creating a network of hospitals. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health and will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Piotr Gryza. The first question is asked by Mrs Mirosław Nykiel. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! The planned reform in the form of a network of hospitals poses a threat to about 160 hospitals across the country, including highly specialised hospitals. As an example, I can give you a rheumatology hospital in Sopot, where 4,000 have already signed an online petition to defend the petition. persons. Among the facilities that are not in the planned network today, there are among others. Railway hospital in Wilkowice-Bystra near Bielsko-Biała or the Centre for Burning Treatment in Siemianowice Śląskie, those from four important hospitals. Psychiatric, rheumatological, infectious, rehabilitation hospitals. In the Śląskie voivodship itself, over 140 hospitals to the network for today can be registered more than 60. Everyone is concerned about the future of institutions: hospital directors, doctors, nurses, but above all patients. After all, you were supposed to improve the availability of services, which is why I am asking questions, Minister. What is the rush to implement these changes? What about hospitals that aren't online at the moment? How will the availability of benefits be guaranteed? What about high-specialized hospitals that don't have an E.R. because they couldn't enter the competition before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u63	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u64	Dear Marshal, Dear Member of the Commission, I would like to ask you a question. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll start with the same thing, let it be a motto of my speech, from which I started yesterday's speech at the Health Committee meeting, namely by recalling the report of the Supreme Auditorium. In its 2015 report on the activities of the National Health Fund, it pointed out that patients' access to health services of most types of hospital departments and clinics has not improved. This has happened despite an increase in the value of contracts concluded by the National Health Fund with healthcare providers, i.e. an increase in the financial resources allocated to health benefits. In addition, the Supreme Audit Office noted that problems with patients' access to benefits have occurred in a situation where the potential of the majority of respondents who could provide more health services without expanding their hardware base and hiring additional medical staff is not fully exploited. We can say that this report confirms some of the conclusions that we all know. And that's why we need to take action to get the system in order. This system has been operating for a long time, a lot of good has happened in this system. However, we have an important feature here - a serious disorder of the system. There is no specific responsibility, there are no specific directions for development. Therefore, the Minister of Health takes measures which have a system of access to health services in the field of hospital care to order. To answer your question, it must be said first of all that the regulation on hospital networks refers to hospital treatment, so it does not include psychiatry, it does not include rehabilitation, it does not cover other areas, e.g. palliative or hospice care does not include outpatient care to some extent. And I am talking about this in the context of, for example, dialysis therapy, which is not subject to this regulation, which will be implemented in the same way as today. So this is just a piece of the whole system. And the hospital network is integrated into this system, and the idea is that we are creating a network of hospitals to which included entities have a guaranteed possibility to finance health benefits under certain conditions without a competition route. This, on the other hand, fills only part of the system. It only fills part of the system. Based on the 2015 model in this legal state, which was at the time the project was presented for consultation, around 85% of the network is involved. hospital care providers, from the plan of the National Health Fund for hospital treatment. At the same time, as I say, this is a state according to the regulation which has been presented for public consultation. Other 15% is subject to the competition process, which is the same method as today. Thus, hospitals that are not on the network have failed to meet the criteria for entering the network, firstly, they may, as proposed, still be adopted if they play an important role in accessing health services and, secondly, participate in the competition procedure in the same way as before. And now I'm moving to the territory of the Silesian Voivodeship. The Silesian Voivodeship, or actually the Silesian Branch of the National Health Fund, has a financial plan. And it's exactly the same as in 2015. Some hospitals were on the network according to the 2015 model, and those hospitals that were not on the network were also financed in 2015. The same money pool goes to hospitals that participate in the competition procedure, only that these hospitals are subject to this procedure. Another thing you've noticed in your question is another matter. That's what he said: patients should still be able to choose a hospital. This is one of the basic elements of the functioning of the universal health insurance system - the freedom of the patient to choose an individual who obviously has a signed contract with the National Health Fund, in principle. This situation doesn't change. The patient's freedom is preserved, the patient can go to any person who has a signed contract with the National Health Fund, with some exceptions - these are emergencies specified in the Act. Another thing about difficult therapies. The regulation in this area, you can say, is exactly the same as it is now. This problem occurs all the time because the present reality is reality, which was also in 2015. This matter concerns the detailed arrangements of the President's order. This will be related to the draft novels and to the draft regulation. It is in the order of the President, or actually in the contract between the provider of benefits and the payer, that the elements which have, among others, will be specified. through an indicator system - such a method is often used - motivate to perform an adequate number of difficult therapies. Furthermore, it must be added that in the system that we are proposing here to be accepted by Parliament - I mean, it is not yet a government project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] only work continues on this - groups of benefits will be separated, which will be subject to different settlements, as at the moment, i.e. fee-for-service settlements. And there's the matter of the burn centers. Indeed, the burn centers play important roles in the system and these hospitals, and in Siemianowice Śląskie, and in Łęczna, and in Gryfice, they will certainly be included in the basic system of hospital health insurance.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u65	Thank you, Minister. Now the additional question was to be asked by Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, but also... [[I'm here.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] Yes? Well, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the Silesian voivodship there are six psychiatric units: State Hospital for Nervo and Psychologically Sick in Rybnik, Psychiatric Hospital in Toszk, Psychiatry Centre in Katowice, Regional Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Lublin, Nervic therapy Centre for Children and Youth in Orzesz, Voivodship Centre for Remedic Medicine and Care and Medical Department in Gorzyce. In view of what the Minister has already said, is the Ministry preparing to set up a network of psychiatric hospitals, if they are to be financial from another pool? Tell me directly and officially which of the six hospitals I listed from the Silesian Voivodeship will not be on the mental health map. Or else: Can the Minister assure us that none of these facilities will disappear from the map? We know very little at this moment about the idea of creating mental health centers. Tell us more about it, because all these hospitals are suspended, and they'd like to know more about what's ahead of them for the new year. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I guess I don't have to remind you at this point that we're getting older in society, that there's an increasing number of mental problems, depression, suicide attempts, and addiction. Younger and younger people need support because they can't cope with everyday life's problems. Therefore, Silesians do not imagine that any of the sites I mentioned would disappear from the map of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u67	Thank you. I'm asking for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u68	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Psychiatric treatment is in the sense of the scope set out in the Act, as well as in the sense of the financial plan, a different scope. The law, in fact, the draft law, which is intended to apply to a network of hospitals, does not fall within the scope of psychiatric treatment. It will now be financed in the same way as it has been so far. This is, of course, related to the project of the mental health centre, which is to be introduced first as part of the pilotage and only later as part of the whole system, if really this pilotage is successful. So it could be said that psychiatric psychiatric hospitals will be contracted in the same way as before, that is, at the moment when the annexation will be legally unblocked - because at the moment the contracts continue until mid-2017, that means that soon these competitions should be announced in some finite perspective - psychiatric hospitals will be held in competitions and it will take place in exactly the same way as it looks at the moment. Only after piloting, as I mentioned, will we be able to talk about creating a mental health centre system. But that's only after the results of the analysis of this pilotage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u69	Thank you, Minister. High Izbo! Before we get to the next question, I'll announce... [[Yet, Mr Hok. There's half a minute left of my time.]] But the Member did not use it in the first time. [[No, there's half a minute left...]] Well, there you go, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! First of all, I am glad to see the Minister in good health, because there was a lot of excitement on the committee yesterday. I want to ask you a question we haven't had a chance to ask yet. Polish hospitals are in debt for more than 13 billion PLN. Most hospitals, dozens of hospitals in Poland are in debt to smaller, larger amounts. Will they also be included in the hospital network, and if they continue to indebt, will they remain in that network for 4 years, which are supposed to be registered by law, or will they somehow cease to function? This is, I think, a huge problem. Second [[♪ The bell ♪]] The problem that I wanted to draw attention to is eHealth - huge measures that should be passed on to computerisation and which would definitely improve the effectiveness of hospitals. Are you prepared to finance this project and when will it end?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u71	Thank you, sir. The Minister has one and a half minutes. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u72	Mr President, I once had this card on which I wrote: A lifetime of health. You can't have poor health when you work in health. And emotions are on both sides, sir. And if there's a lot more people on the other side of the committee because it's a hundred to one, then that sum of emotions on the other side is much bigger than on my side. And now I answer your question. This regulation does not apply to indebted hospitals at all. This is a different regulation. That's what we're working on, we're thinking. This is, moreover, a problem that does not concern only the current year. On the other hand, there is a provision in the proposed law that says that if the hospital does not meet the criteria, e.g. basket criteria, and he will not be able to carry out benefits, unfortunately the contract will be terminated with him, so he will be out of it. Exactly the same as now - if you don't meet the criteria, you can't actually provide health services and you won't be online. On the other hand, I'm sorry about the last part of the question, but the sound system didn't work because I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u73	Excuse me? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: I didn't hear the last part of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u74	E-Health and computerization in hospitalization, which would radically improve the situation. Are there resources for this, or will this project be implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u75	Yes, the European Commission recently agreed to phase out project P1. This project, unfortunately, was Bad [[♪ The bell ♪]] implemented. The method of its implementation through the selection of five contractors without the main contractor caused that actually he had no chance to implement it. We are changing the formula of this project and are trying to complete it, especially after the positive decision of the European Commission to agree on the phase-out of the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u76	Thank you, Minister. High Izbo! Before we move on to the next question, a minute's technical break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 03 hours 11 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 32 of the agenda: Questions on current issues. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Andrzej Kryj and Mrs Anna April, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question on improving access to new generation broadband networks [[NGA]] in densely populated areas of Poland, addressed to the Minister of Digitization. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitisation, Minister Piotr Woźny, will answer. Mr Andrzej Kryj is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Internet access in the last few years has been systematically improved in Poland. However, this does not mean that the situation is good, as it is estimated that access to the network in our country has about 3/4 households, so much less than it is in Europe. There's an average of 83%. The issue of broadband access is particularly important for Internet access. In Poland, about 70% have access to it. households with an EU average of around 80%. It is clear that access to broadband has recently been stabilised, which means that there is no clear improvement here. There is no need to convince anyone of the great importance of access to the Internet in the various spheres of social life. When an analysis of the broadband access map is made, there are also certain territorial differences. While it is not so bad in densely built areas, it can be said that the situation is good, there are problems in less populated areas. I would like to ask the Minister the following question: What measures are currently being carried out by the Ministry in order to improve access to new generation broadband networks, especially in these less populated areas of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u78	Thank you. And I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to the Member's question, this is indeed the case, exactly what the structure of use and structure of broadband networks in Poland is like, as the Member put it in his question. In large urban centres, in medium-sized urban centres, where we deal with more wealthy customers of telecommunications services, these networks are built from private money telecommunications operators. The telecommunications market in Poland is extremely competitive and there, in these large, larger towns, these operators compete for customers, there is a high level of access to broadband, broadband Internet services. In Poland, we have an extremely strong cable TV industry and these cable TV operators in large, larger urban centres compete with our former national operator for broadband client. So when it comes to the state of saturation of broadband services of large, larger towns, it is absolutely satisfactory and it can be said that in these larger towns the free market and competition solves the problem itself, as well as the wealth of the portfolio, the wealth of the consumer of these services. The problem, however, is that the further we go into the area, the lower we go down in this structure of cities, towns, villages in Poland, the more these telecommunications investments become more expensive in those localities, and customers of telecommunications services cannot afford to pay such rates that would compensate telecom operators for the cost of building networks to serve them in those localities. For the Ministry of Digitalisation, improving broadband access is one of the most important issues that we deal with in the Ministry. We have the resources for this in the Operational Programme of Poland digital. I can say that, as part of the intervention we are planning at the moment, we have already announced a competition and in this competition we have set ourselves the goal of giving minimum investment obligations for telecom operators throughout Poland, that their obligation in the framework of the competitions for which we are allocating funds will be to connect more than 1,100 thousand. households. We're maxing out to cover, co-financing 3120 thousand. households throughout Poland. And it's like 66% households that have been identified by us as those that are intended to be connected under the grant scheme, are households located in locations less than 1 000. inhabitants and 82% of which these are households located in towns less than 5 000. residents. So thanks to this intervention we want to go to Poland, to which telecom entrepreneurs due to investment costs and costs of building broadband networks Don't let them get there. The second extremely important thing. Within the framework of this programme on connecting households, we also refer to the question of connecting schools to broadband Internet. This is what Minister Zalewska mentioned in her speech, referring to the Law of Education. And this is our great common program, which as the Ministry of Digitalization we carry out with the Minister of National Education. We picked each other... for $30,000. total schools in Poland, which operate in 19.5 thousand. address points, we have selected 10 200 school facilities, 10 200 address points, which are so far away from broadband nodes that telecom operators are not interested in building broadband access to these schools. And we also took these schools into this competition, dividing Poland into 79 competition areas. We precisely mean schools that are in the respective competition areas, and the obligation of entrepreneurs who will receive subsidies to connect households in this area will be to connect all educational establishments that do not have broadband access. So that we hope that thanks to this intervention that we are planning, we will be able to solve the problem of broadband connection to all educational establishments in Poland and significantly improve the access of residents, especially less populated areas, to the Internet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u80	Thank you. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] I would like to ask an additional question to Mrs Anna April.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u81	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You have already mentioned the Operational Programme "Digital Poland" implemented in 2014-2020. I have two questions for you. Please tell us what measures are planned for the implementation of this programme. Are the objectives you have set for yourself in line with the requirements of the European Digital Agenda? The aim is to ensure that home access is at least 30 Mbps and that a group of households have 100 Mbps of Internet access.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u82	I'm asking for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u83	Madam President, the implementation of the policy related to the connection of households to broadband internet is precisely the Operational Programme of Poland digital. This is the smallest of the operational programmes, which are, in this programme are EUR 2145 million. On the other hand, the issue of connecting households is allocated EUR 1 billion from this pool, which is a little over PLN 4 billion. About this competition, which I mentioned, which was announced on 30 September, will be submitted by entrepreneurs in January. We divided Poland into 79 competition areas closing in the area of individual voivodships. We have allocated PLN 3 billion to the allocation in this competition. We have, as I said, very precisely selected households, which require this connection to the network. These 3 billion zlotys are a very large amount of funds allocated and, as I said, the minimum target that we set before entrepreneurs if they sign up for these competitions, of course, because it is their will and this is their declaration about the implementation of this investment - it is only funding for their investments, that is, they will also add their own resources to it, it is also an investment lever - so 3 billion zlotys are designed to spend them in this competition as grants for building broadband access in areas that are currently excluded from broadband Internet access. This is the second competition that is announced for connecting households. In the first competition, which was organized by our predecessors, 600 million PLN was allocated for this purpose. Unfortunately, this competition was conducted so, the competition areas were selected so that only 300 million PLN were able to sign grant agreements. We have studied very carefully the reasons why this first competition failed. Among the experts there was such an opinion on this first competition: in its current form it is the operation of the Operational Programme of Poland digital does not support the achievement of the main objective, i.e. liquidation of the so-called white spots by ensuring a flow of 30 Mb/s for all citizens. The whole of the documents leaves a strong impression that the beneficiaries of the measures planned for distribution in autumn 2015 will be large operators modernising or developing their infrastructure in cities. So we structured the rules of this competition, so we selected a map of these towns and address points, so that right now these funds would earn the opportunity to connect these small rural communities, urban-rural communities to broadband Internet. What we also do, what we have introduced, and this is a very important issue for us - we have introduced the principle of technological neutrality of connection. So from our point of view, it's absolutely irrelevant whether it's going to be broadband Internet connection using radio techniques or whether it's going to be stationary techniques. For us, it's important, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to give the widest number of citizens access to broadband Internet. [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u84	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Member State Barbara Dziuk, Jolanta Szczypińska, Katarzyna Czochara and Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, on education reform, the liquidation of junior high, the return to 8 years of elementary school and 4 years of high school. The question to the Minister of National Education will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Mrs Marzenna Drab. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Education reform is under strong fire from the criticism of the total opposition. Not long ago, those who were against the creation of junior high schools are now against liquidation. Philosophy is one: to make a fuss and not let those who want to restore normal science standards developed for generations to work. For as long as I can remember, my parents have been complaining about a system created by their predecessors. Junior high school was very badly received by young people who were lost at puberty. Statistics talk about the aggression and other problems of middle school youth that teachers can't handle. We need to return quickly to teaching subjects that introduce students to specific issues. And here I have a question for the Minister. Is the scope of teaching Polish, history, mathematics, chemistry, physics already extended due to changes? Are we going to go back to teaching a particular age group, gradually, from elementary school to high school to college? We remember that the model for the reform of education is the structure of teaching conducted so that it contributes to the development of the young generation and that they create intellectual elites at a global level. The second question concerns grants and grants for kindergartens. The school subsidy is not accounted for in respect of the zloty, whereas the pre-school subsidy is very specific. I have a question: What does it look like today, and what are the Ministry's intentions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u86	Thank you. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will begin my answer to the second question by referring to the topic related to subsidies. The allocation algorithm is based on the principle that the calculation of grants is based on the number of pupils attending schools and educational establishments run or subsidised by individual municipalities, powiats and self-government voivodships. In order to adjust the amount of subsidies to the educational tasks carried out by individual units of the local government, the algorithm depends on this level, among others. from the number of pupils and pupils and the structure of teachers' employment and take into account specific types and types of schools. The algorithm shall take into account the specificities of schools and institutions due to educational costs, e.g. vocational, sports, medical, artistic, youth education centres, special education, which is reflected in the additional importance applied to the students of the above mentioned school. institutions. Thanks to the application of such an extensive allocation algorithm, the amount of education subsidies charged to local government units remains in close relation to the costs of conducting educational tasks. Indeed, as you have pointed out, the grant is very detailed in terms of the zloty, while the subsidy, as I said, is charged with an algorithm. It is the income of local government units and it is the local government that gives the authorities, in the form of grants, the necessary money to conduct education policy and education. With regard to the basis of the curriculum and the way in which we are teaching, our proposed education reform is primarily intended to improve the quality of education at school so that the school is modern, so that it meets the needs of young people so that young people, i.e. students, can develop comprehensively. I think that this reform will end education only by answering test questions. We want the student to be able to evaluate certain phenomena on his own, we want to teach logical thinking. So this is such a very broad view of the student, who should finish a certain stage at school, in order to have some acquired skills, which will just be recorded in the programme basis during the particular final stages of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u88	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question from Catherine Chechara.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u89	Minister! I wanted to raise the question of subsidies. Minister, did the Ministry also secure funding for six-year-olds in kindergartens? My additional question is: Is the amount secured by the Ministry sufficient?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u90	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Zalewska continues to stress that the reform is thoughtful, calculated and that the measures are secured. This question, which you have asked, is very important because the change that has taken place in the area of six-year-olds - giving parents the right to decide whether or not a six-year-old will go to school or will leave him in kindergarten for this initial education to take place there - has made more than 80% The parents decided that 6-year-old children would remain in kindergarten. This has led us to look at the finances of local governments and - so that local governments do not have less funding for the education of 6-year-olds - we have decided that about 1 billion 400 are being transferred to secure the education of 6-year-olds in kindergarten. In addition, the change must take place so that the grant that applies to a six-year-old in kindergarten... She is in the amount of PLN 1338, we raise her to PLN 4300 and this is the difference we will transfer to local government accounts in order to secure funds for proper and comprehensive education also for children who receive school in kindergarten. So I want to reassure all of you that there is enough money for the education of 6-year-olds. They are already secured in the budget, in the draft budget for 2017, so that there should be no shortage of money for training a six-year-old in kindergarten. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u92	Thank you, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Member of the Commission: Mr Jarosław Szlachetka, Mrs Joanna Kopcińska and Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question on the implementation and summary of the programme, addressed to the Minister for Sport and Tourism in 2016. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, Minister Jan Widera, is responsible. Please, Mr Jarosław Nobletka is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In Poland there are more than 14 thousand. sports clubs and associations in which participants in training classes are covered, are official data, about 650 thousand. children and adolescents up to 18 years of age. Many of these clubs often operate in difficult economic and organisational conditions. Many times at the expense of e.g. Participation in competitions for senior teams of clubs lacks funding for salaries for instructors and trainers, the purchase of necessary sports equipment or the organisation of sports camps for youth groups. It is often also the case that clubs that do not run senior teams, and who only conduct sports activities for children and young people, simply lack money for basic training activities, as they cannot count on any additional support other than membership fees from the participants themselves. In many Polish cities or villages, sports clubs are the center of physical activity and are the place for training future champions, medalists of the European Championships, the world or the Olympic Games. Minister, on 15 December, the first edition announced in February this year will be completed. The club programme. What was the interest of the potential beneficiaries this year in support of the Club programme?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u94	Thank you. Minister, please respond. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In reply to your questions on the implementation and conclusion of the 2016 Club programme, I kindly inform you that in 2016. The Ministry of Sport and Tourism has implemented a programme to implement, a nationwide programme of the Club, which is a response to the demand of a sports environment struggling with organisational and financial problems on a daily basis. This applies in particular to small and medium-sized clubs. The "Club" programme, supporting sports clubs, local actors, the closest citizen, contributes to the construction of social capital, creating the conditions for active leisure activities for children and schoolchildren. Participants in sports activities conducted in clubs acquire many key skills for their development, such as group work, perseverance, diligence. Increased availability of sport offers can also contribute to reducing adverse social phenomena and pathologies, aggression, violence or use of drugs. In addition, by promoting regular participation in sports activities, the Club programme can improve the health of society and reduce the number of overweight or obesity users. The implementation of the programme also creates the conditions for broadening the programme offer of sports clubs, increasing the quantitative participation of children and young people, and may be an incentive to create new sports organisations operating in the legal formula enabling them to obtain funding. The main objectives of the programme are the dissemination of physical activity among children and young people, equalisation of the opportunities of children and young people in access to structured physical activity, institutional support for the activities of the basic units of the organizational structure of Polish sport - sports clubs in the field of sport activation of children and young people, investment in human capital in sport of children and young people, optimisation of the use of infrastructure potential by local authorities in the field of the dissemination of physical culture among children and young people. The programme is funded by the basic elements affecting the effective functioning of the sports club, i.e. the remuneration of trainers engaged in sports activities, the organisation of sports camps or the purchase of sports equipment. The total value of grants per club is 10,000. PLN in the case of a unitary club and 15 thousand. zł in the case of a multi-section club. One of the main criteria for implementing the programme is to provide sports training with children and young people up to the age of 18, which will enable financial support to be provided to this group of beneficiaries. The implementation of the programme in 2016 is planned in the budget of the Ministry of Sport for PLN 15 million, but due to the great interest of the sports community after the first selection of proposals the Minister of Sport and Tourism gained an additional PLN 8 million for launching the next recruitment. A total of 5241 applications submitted by 4195 unique applicants were examined as part of the second selection. Interest in the programme of the Minister of Sports and Tourism showed 30% registered with more than 14 900 sports clubs in Poland. In the end, 2151 clubs from all over the country were co-financed as a result of the selection process, i.e. more than 15%. all registered clubs. The most co-financed sports clubs were registered in the voivodships: Wielkopolski - 234, Małopolskie - 226, Silesian - 221, Podkarpackie - 218, Mazowiecki - 213, and at least in the voivodships: Podlaski - 47, Świętokrzyski - 51, Opolskie - 57, Lubuskie - 63. In both meetings, grants were granted to 1631 mono-secting clubs and 520 multi-secting clubs. Most of the clubs that received funding were engaged in football sports. Volleyball - 264, athletics - 173, basketball - 141 and table tennis - 124 were also very popular. A total of 70 sports disciplines, including less popular ones such as baseball, American football, kendo and softball, were awarded funding to sports clubs. What is extremely important, the programme provided direct support for 5 000 activities. trainers who conduct organized sports activities for over 130 thousand. children and adolescents. In 2017, the financial plan of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism secured an amount of PLN 30 million, which will allow for funding of around 2700 sports clubs. In practice, over 3 000 support is possible. individual sports clubs. The call for proposals will be announced in the first quarter of next year. The Ministry of Sport and Tourism plans a wide promotional campaign through public media and social networks. In addition, information on recruitment will be published on the website of the Ministry and in the Public Information Bulletin, where the clubs will find the necessary information on [[♪ The bell ♪]] a call application together with appropriate instructions and, for example, a completed application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u96	Thank you, Minister. Would Mrs Kopcińska like to ask an additional question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u97	Very short, Mr. Marshal. Thank you. Minister! Undoubtedly, the right thing to do in implementing the programme is to support tasks involving only children and young people up to the age of 18, and to diversify the grant of grants to individual and multi-section clubs. It also welcomes the fact that, as part of the call for the programme in 2016, this total amount of support, of which the Minister was kind to speak, amounted to as much as PLN 24 million. I wanted to ask - I already got the answer - whether the clubs will also be able to count on funding next year. I understand that, yes, you confirm that they will be able to count. And what other programmes outside the club programme to promote physical culture and sport among children and young people are foreseen in your department next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u98	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u99	Of course, there are a lot of programs. One of the main programmes is the children's and young people's sport dissemination programme or the sport development programme, which is implemented by sports unions. We also spend a dozen million zlotys on these programs. But another very important program is the program of.I can swim, there is a program to support winter sports. Individual clubs and schools will also be able to participate in such programmes. So that we now include about 350,000. children and adolescents. In general this year we have allocated over PLN 130 million in sport for the development of sport of children and young people. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u100	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. Mrs Andżelika Możjanowska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will ask a question about the planned reform of health care and the risk of liquidation of county hospitals. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Mr Piotr Gryza, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Health, corresponds. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The great announcements of the reform of health care during the election campaign have only become promises. The draft laws on hospital networks, basic health care and State Medical Rescue prepared by the Ministry are of great concern to Polish patients and local governments. A gray reality emerges from the great plans. Poles are concerned about the planned liquidation of county hospitals, extending queues to specialist doctors or rehabilitation. Generalisation, discrimination against single-profile and private establishments, unrealistic entry into force date, budgeting instead of contracting, uncertain overperformances and, above all, the fear of the patient - this is how the shortcomings of the planned regulations can be defined. In recent weeks, concerned residents have come to the parliamentary offices with questions about the future of their district hospital. District governments often face investment problems. Not all municipalities feel co-responsible for the county hospital, whose operation is the responsibility of the county government. Minister! Please answer the following questions. Are there official estimates in the ministry of how many county hospitals will be wound up? Who will provide adequate help to these inhabitants? What is the real reason for setting up a hospital network? Is this a non-competition provision of funds? When are we going to get a list of entities that are qualified for the network? What are the basic criteria for networking? What about other entities that are not online, and what about clinics that are not required by the network and that should be used by residents? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the first part of my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u102	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! Dear Member Asking the question! Ladies and gentlemen! This gray reality that you are talking about is a reality in which we have been going on for many years. Extending queues for health benefits, hospital debt, uncertainty of entities, mainly powiats, in the system - these are the characteristics that characterize the current system. And it could be said that contracting services on a fee-for-service basis with certain limits, where the number of benefits is increasing, meets the characteristics that you presented in your statement. That is why the Minister of Health is taking steps to correct this situation, to correct this situation, so that in this very gray reality, which is, moreover, a difficult reality that we all face, this situation in a positive sense is somewhat corrected. As for the opinion that you said that there are planned liquidations of county hospitals - there are no such plans. In answer to the question of criteria for entering the network in relation to district hospitals, it is on the basis of a draft law and on the basis of a draft regulation which has been subject to public consultation, that the criterion for entering the network for the first degree hospital is to have two of the five profiles. Anyway, for example. In numerous correspondence, questions were raised as to why we should enter with four troops. Two of the five profiles - this is the criterion for entering the first-degree hospital's network, a district hospital, although some hospitals also meet the criteria for entering the second-degree hospital in that network. In general, the idea is that, among other things. district hospitals ensure that they operate on the market. This is one of the basic problems of these hospitals - it's not certain. At the moment we are in a system of continuous annexation of contracts. This system must end in order to allow the market to operate on the scale of the whole system. But it is precisely in order to ensure the health of citizens, to ensure de facto the safety of the functioning of the state, that we introduce a network mechanism and this mechanism is intended to make better use of the financial resources of hospitals, to ensure that there is a certain sense of security by entering the network, and to ensure that the system is shaped in a planned manner. On the basis of the 2015 model, these hospitals and branches are entering the network, covering around 85% of the population. hospital care measures, i.e. the appropriate heading of the National Health Fund's financial plan. Other 15% is subject to a competition, so hospitals or e.g. profiles which are not on the network shall be submitted to the normal competition procedure by means of a competition announced by the Director of the National Health Fund. Moreover, there is also the fact that the Act provides for a restructuring mechanism, i.e. the criteria are built at the level of a medicinal plant in the territory of one voivodship. It may be that the lead authorities can unify to consolidate entities, which is an important positive element, because our system is very fragmented, it is disorderly, and this law is also intended to encourage consolidation, to bring together institutions to be managed more effectively. Such a mechanism is also provided for in this Act. I would also like to refer to the opinion that you said in your statement that the only chance for a contract with a payer would be to enter the network. Definitely not. As I said, some hospitals are online and can function in this system, while some are subject to competition. It is a safe and flexible system, on the one hand, because it takes account of market developments. You also asked me a question about specialist counseling. The answer's a little wider. In other areas of health services such as rehabilitation, at least in an excellent part, such as long-term care, palliative-hospital care, psychiatry, the network does not fall within this scope and remains the same as at the moment, while outpatient specialist care is attached to the network in hospital clinics. If the entities do not have this carried out in hospital facilities - and yet specialist, which is related to profiles which are understood a little more widely, those which are provided within the hospital - these clinics are subjected to the competition process exactly as at the moment. On the other hand, the principle of funding itself. Well, first of all, there are systems in the world, so-called. Budgeting systems, i.e. building a financial plan on the basis of previous implementation, adjusted by appropriate quality indicators, e.g. in the sense of difficulty [[♪ The bell ♪]] the procedures performed, the number of benefits provided. Such mechanisms will certainly be applied. In addition, not everything will be included in the lump sum scheme, part of the benefits will be excluded from the separate contract, for separate financing and they will be subject to contract under the rules currently in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u104	Thank you. Is there an additional question? You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u105	Yeah, absolutely. Minister, I'm going to ask you about the benefits that will be excluded from the contract, from the minimum lump sum. I ask for answers as to whether over-executions will also be taken into account in the framework of the minimum flat-rate payment. Does the Minister provide for the mobilisation of additional funds for district hospitals to meet the criterion to which they are required under the regulation today - the criterion of compliance by December 2017. Will there be consultations and if so, when is such consultations foreseen in Wielkopolska? And my last question: will you confirm your opinion that as part of the changes, your primary healthcare doctor will have to have a signed contract with specialists, and the patient will only have to take advantage of this specialist, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which family doctor does he have a signed contract with? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u106	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u107	On the last question - this is the scope not relating to the hospital network, that is the scope of the primary healthcare doctor's competence and the increase in his responsibility. To some extent, the primary healthcare doctor will have, according to the plans, the so-called. the budget allocated to specialised medicine. I actually here the doctor of the POZ is to be the caregiver of the patient on his way to the specialist clinic and the doctor of primary health care is to be responsible for the assistance that the patient is to receive in this specialized care, but this only applies to a certain extent. This concerns a certain scope, which is currently being prepared in the Ministry of Health, but not only because it is also prepared in the framework of a project financed by European funds, and what is important, this idea of extending the competence of a primary healthcare doctor will also be carried out by piloting to see what the features of this system are and possibly correct the responsibilities, and what is important in this area, the exchange of information between a primary healthcare doctor and a specialist, because this is the key to success - the exchange of information between a specialist doctor and a primary healthcare doctor. The criteria that you are referring to are subjective to the fulfilment of certain conditions have been imposed on hospitals for a long time. These criteria are moving, the Minister of Health will decide whether these criteria will actually apply or whether time rigor will be imposed. To a large extent e.g. the ability to support and complement the potential of hospitals is in regional operational programmes or in European funds at all. I think that's all the questions that... [[Consultation.]] The consultation is ongoing. The project was subject to public consultation. I meet with different environments, and I will mention that the consultation was formally about the law, while the draft regulation was attached to this draft law. When this draft is presented to the government, it will also include a draft regulation, which is de facto the body of this law, as well as a draft order of the President, which is to regulate the details of the settlement between the payer and the contractor of the benefits. It will also be a form of consultation, because it will be public and we will talk about it and discuss it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and later, once Parliament has adopted this solution again, the draft regulation must be formally consulted to be adopted by the Minister of Health. [[I understand, Minister, that there will be no such regional consultations? The Ministry doesn't plan them in voivodships?]] The Ministry is constantly planning consultations and I am still talking to many environments. [[But there won't be, for example. meetings in voivodships with the minister?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u108	Member, but time is up. [[Come to Wielkopolska, Minister.]] Consultations are still there, with Wielkopolska too. Thank you kindly to the Minister and to the Member. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 33 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current meeting of the Sejm will consider information on the change of the city's borders on the rights of the district of Opola and the municipality of Dąbrowa, the commune of Łódź, Komprachcice commune and the municipality of Prószków, which, by virtue of the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 19 July 2016 on the establishment of the borders of certain municipalities and cities, will enter into force on 1 January 2017, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party at the very beginning, I would like to express my huge disapproval of our club for the actions of the government resulting in the deterioration of the situation of citizens living in the municipalities of Dąbrowa, Czydyń Wielki, Komprachcice and in the commune of Prószków in the Opole Voivodeship. As of 1 January 2017, the territory of the municipalities in question is to be reduced to Opola by Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 19 July 2016 on the establishment of the borders of certain municipalities and cities, the granting of town status to certain towns and the change in the name of the municipality. In view of the unprecedented circumstances in which the Council of Ministers has taken a decision to change the borders of these municipalities and the unacceptable consequences of these actions which are already taking place today, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to provide information on the proposal to resolve the problems that have arisen. In order to briefly outline the problem areas, it should be pointed out at the outset that the voice of the local authorities directly concerned has been omitted in the whole case, which should have a decisive impact on their cases. The unmistakably negative position of local residents whose territory is to be reduced, expressed in the legal public consultation and demonstrated in countless manifestations, protests and derivatives has been ignored. This certainly does not fit in with the government's proposal for a good change and in the assurance of listening to the voice of the people, while it is an indication of undesirable standards in politics that refuse to take into account the real and clear will of the population. Therefore, I ask: Why did the Council of Ministers, contrary to its earlier announcements, listen to people's needs and voices of simple people, ignore the clear and indisputable position of local communities: the municipalities of Dąbrowa, the municipalities of Czydyń Wielki, Komprachcice and the communes of Prószków, opposing the change of the borders of the city of Opola? It should then be pointed out that the entire draft change of borders was prepared at local level and subsequently adopted at ministerial stage, in breach of the legal rules provided for such proceedings, in an unjustified hurry and without further analysis. In such a situation, the question arises as to why it is currently trying to implement the idea of joining Opole the most attractive investments and generating the largest revenues of neighbouring municipalities, an idea which has not been supported by any careful expertise, studies, reports or other documents that could justify the decision to change the borders of Opole, based on a reliable balance of losses and benefits. Why was it also allowed to settle a case that was affected by a number of significant formal misconducts? In view of the time since the Council of Ministers adopted a regulation amending the border between municipalities, as the lens focuses on all the problems caused by the change of borders, which will probably constitute an important obstacle to the functioning of local communities in the near future. There are already negative social impacts on the agenda today. In particular, there is a sense of non-hearing by the authorities and of social unrest among the residents, which is manifested very clearly in organized protests and demonstrations, the aim of which is to bring about a change in the decision of the Council of Ministers to change borders. In addition, the financial impact of changing borders can be tragic. In the case of the municipalities affected by the change, it is said openly that there is a significant reduction or even a barrier to the performance of their own tasks. It is also necessary to emphasise the undesirable consequences at local government level, where, in fact, there are currently no prospects for compatible cooperation between the City of Opole and other municipalities whose territories have been cut off. In view of the problems presented, we would like to know how the Prime Minister intends to remedy the situation in this region. High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, Minister! Under the circumstances, it is not acceptable to leave the inhabitants [[♪ The bell ♪]] Communes of Dąbrowa, Dobrzeń Wielki, Komprachcice and Prószków without support. Anything must be done to restore the mistrust of local residents, to ensure social peace, to return to compatible cooperation between local authorities and to provide financial opportunities for their undistorted performance of public tasks. All this can be achieved - the last sentence - by reviewing the position of the Council of Ministers and cancelling the regulation adopted on 19 July 2016. That's what people expect. This must also be done by democracy, self-government and the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u110	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Sebastian Gwałk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! On 29 April 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration received a request from the Council of the City of Opole to change the borders of the city of Opole and the municipalities of Dobrzyń Wielki, Dąbrowa, Komprachcice, Prószków and Turawa from the district of Opole. Following preliminary analyses, including verification of the compliance of the information contained with the requirements of the Municipal Government Act of 8 March 1990, as well as the completeness of the attached documentation laid down in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 9 August 2001 on the procedure for the submission of applications for the creation, merger, division, abolition and establishment of the borders of municipalities, the granting of the status of a municipality or a town, the establishment and amendment of the names of the municipalities and their seats and the documents required in these cases, the proposal was qualified to submit to the Council of Ministers. The proposal proposes the following solution for joining Opola: from the municipality of Dąbrowa - Sławice and Wrzoski, parts of Karczów - together it is 1668 ha and 1426 inhabitants; from the municipality of Czarnowasy, Krzanowice, Świerkle, parts of Brzezie and Czyń Mały - together it represents more than 2753 ha and 4941 inhabitants; from Komprachcice - the village of Chmielowice and Żerkowice - together it is 532 ha, which also translates into 2115 inhabitants; from the municipality of Prószków - the village of Winów - it is over 278 ha and 694 inhabitants; the fifth element was a fragment, part of Zawada from the municipality of Turawa with an area of almost 88 ha and 233 inhabitants. In all the municipalities affected by the change, the inhabitants were negatively affected by the proposed solution. The authorities constituting these municipalities also expressed negative opinions. The inhabitants of Opole were positive about the proposed change. The Council of the City of Opole welcomed this change and also the Opole Voivode gave a positive opinion on this proposal. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration recommended this proposal for a positive examination by the Council of Ministers regarding the integration into the city of Opola of parts of the municipalities of Łódź Wielki, Dąbrowa, Prószków and Komprachcice. It did not suggest the Council of Ministers to include part of the municipality of Turawa. The integration of these new areas into the borders of the city of Opole in the Ministry's assessment will strengthen its potential and increase its competitiveness. The change will make full use of the existing potential in the region and contribute to the long-term development of the city and the Opole region. Using the surface, combining people's experience, knowledge, cultural values, involving new funds, will create good foundations for the development of the entire region, rural areas, small and larger cities. It is important, of course, that on 25 February 2016, the Council of the City of Opole adopted a resolution on expressing its willingness to accept a social contract as part of the extension of the administrative borders of the City of Opole. This contract declared the maintenance of educational establishments, including schools and kindergartens, the maintenance and modernisation of existing technical, municipal and historical infrastructure, the continuation of started investments in technical and municipal infrastructure, the maintenance and support of voluntary fire services activities, the maintenance and support of the activities of folk sports teams, the maintenance and support of cultural activities, support to non-governmental organisations, including support for the activities of organisations and associations involved in preserving and developing the cultural identity of the national minority, the transformation of the communities into district councils with budgets of 100,000. zł, support for entrepreneurs using the system of urban reliefs, maintenance and modernization of greenery and recreational areas, access to public communication by the Municipal Communication Centre in Opole, entry to the program of the Opolska Family Charter, of course, is an entrance to the city facilities for zloty. It should also be stressed that the decision to carry out changes in the borders of Opole was preceded by a meeting with all the local authorities concerned, where the parties had the opportunity to present their positions to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The draft regulation of the Council of Ministers on the revision of the borders of the city of Opole on 12 July was the subject of work by the Systemic Affairs Team and the metropolitan and urban functional area team operating within the Joint Government and Local Government Commission. July 15th this year The President of the City of Opole and the President of the City Council of Opole sent a letter to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration stating that a resolution on a specific proposal for financial support for the municipality of Zbędzyń Wielki will be presented to the City Council without delay. This support will concern the so-called. Janosik, payments for the equivalent part of the general subsidy for municipalities. In addition, this support will be increased by further financial resources necessary during the transitional period for the implementation of the tasks of the municipality and for the regulation of commitments. The details of the aid will be determined in the negotiations between representatives of local governments. Taking this into account, the Council of Ministers at its meeting of 19 July this year. took a positive decision on the integration into the city of Opola part of the communes of Zielona Wielki, Dąbrowa, Komprachcice and Prószków. In connection with the decision of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the city of Opola since September this year. They started discussions on financial issues with representatives of all the parties concerned. The purpose of the talks, first of all, was to establish procedures for matters resulting from changes in administrative borders, including the acquisition of assets, the agreement of the operating conditions of the budgetary units currently operating in the municipalities of Dąbrowa, Zbąń Wielki, Komprachcice and Prószków and the district of Opole. In addition, the identification of possible needs of municipalities of Dąbrowa, Łobień Wielki, Komprachcice and Prószków for additional funds in so-called. the transitional period, mainly in 2017, relating to the maintenance of the liquidity of budgets and the fulfilment of the standards for budgetary resolutions, notably in the context of the provisions of the Public Finance Act. Representatives of the city of Opola held a series of meetings with all interested local government units. These meetings resulted in the following arrangements. On 5 October 2016, a meeting took place at the City Hall of Opole, which was attended by the President of the City of Opola, the Treasurer of the City of Opola, the Mayor of the Municipality of Białyń Wielki and the Treasurer of the Municipality of Białyń Wielki. Wójt gmina Dobrzeń Wielki presented proposals on the financial needs of the municipality in order to ensure its smooth operation in 2017. It was agreed that the financial assistance that Opole would provide to the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki in 2017 would amount to more than PLN 9.5 million. From recent information, we know that it will be almost PLN 10 million. On 13 October 2016, another meeting took place at the Opole City Hall. This meeting was set up, among others. with the treasurer of the municipality of Dąbrowa, that the support from the city's budget for the municipality in 2017 would amount to about PLN 3.6 million, of which 1800 thousand. PLN concerns the performance of own tasks and another 1800 thousand. PLN will relate to the repayment of liabilities held by the municipality. The preliminary analysis of the long-term financial forecast of the municipality of Dąbrowa and the data presented justify the guarantee for 2017 of support to that municipality in the amount of 1800 thousand. PLN for the performance of own tasks. The result of all these findings was, first, the resolution of the Opole City Council of 27 October 2016 on granting [[♪ The bell ♪]] the financial assistance to the municipality of Łobień Wielkie for the amount of 9 906 400 and the resolution of the City Council of Opole of 27 October 2016 on the allocation to the municipality of Dąbrowa of 1800 thousand. zł. Negotiations are currently underway on how these funds are to be transferred. Opole seems to have taken its responsibilities quite seriously, first of all, towards new residents, and also to the part of the municipalities that lose some income. As we can see, Opole will compensate for this revenue and there is no reason for alarmist calls because budgets will be balanced. Thank you. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Before we move on, I wanted to say hello to your seniors from the Baranów commune with the Słupian band. [[Applause]] We are very pleased that you are looking at our deliberations. I hope the Sejm will like it and you will have a good impression from Warsaw. So enjoy your stay in the Seym. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Twenty-six people signed up. Do any of you want to be on the list? If not, I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. As the first... [[Your Marshal, there are representatives of the Podopolska communes, please welcome them...]] But I didn't know that. I see that there are also guests, as it has been said, from the Podopolska communes. I would also like to welcome you and the same as your predecessors. [[Applause]] In that case, please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak, from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. I would remind you that there are two minutes to make a statement in this part of the sitting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u113	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have devoted one of the last meetings of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy to administrative changes in Opole's borders. During this meeting we received a number of explanations, especially from the President of the city of Opole, in connection with administrative change, intentions, actions, with the whole consultation procedure. In his final statement, the Minister began It's like calculating financial issues. I wanted to refer to this, because local authorities often addressed the problem of loss of income from PIT, reduction of part of the general subsidy for individual local authorities, President Opola also referred to this and talked about these aid measures. I would ask the Minister, because it is time for the Minister not to allow it, from what I have noticed, to return to these financial issues and that the Minister also reassures us and the local authorities on financial issues, because this is very important, these are the basic comments of the local authorities that dealt with these issues. As if you could address this and bring us and the others closer to the findings that have been made in this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u115	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The reason for changing the borders of Opole was among others. The fact that the city of Opole is becoming more and more a closed city because of the lack of new jobs. People leave the city of Opole because of the lack of investment areas. Such trends occur essentially throughout the country, where you work in a centre in a given city, and people live in other neighboring municipalities. So that this problem is known not only in the city of Opole, but also in other cities. It seems that the easiest way to address this problem is to find the characteristics of a city that will be a strategy for a multi-annual development plan for a given city. But this is obviously the hardest way: building your own strategy, within your own limits. This problem is the hardest to solve. The second way, equally controversial and emotional, is, of course, the possibility of connecting municipalities. Then it also arouses emotions, but you get a bonus - for 5 years 5% PIT. But another way is to build something that is probably the most simple, even though it is a tool, but not a regulation has been issued, namely, to build a metropolitan union, that is to build something, a common strategy based on development plans, infrastructure, building something like that. [[It's...]] I think that this is the least emotional and, at the same time, it causes a joint investment offer, infrastructure offers great investment opportunities. After all, in every city and the surrounding municipalities business is intertwined, in various areas of life. This agglomeration should coexist. Today, building on anxiety, not on combination, but rather on sharing, will not produce the right positive results. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would therefore advise you to think about expanding the metropolitan relationship and building a nice, good offer that can compete with other agglomerations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I regret that Minister Patrick Jaki is not with us, in full respect for the Minister, I have a great suspicion that Minister Patrick What about the motives of this decision knows much more. I must tell you that, following the follow-up to the legislative process of the regulation, I have serious doubts as to whether it was going properly. This does not apply only to the commune of Opola, to which I refer, but it also applies for example. changes in the borders of the municipalities of Alwernia and Spytkowice. In the draft regulation of July 11th... This request is described in such a way that it does not meet any formal conditions, cannot be proceded, and after 2 days it was added to the project. The context is exactly the same, Mr Mariusz Krystian, the governor of the municipality of Spytkowice, ran from the PiS list together with Prime Minister Beata Szydło in last year's elections. And that application was added. Just as he forced himself, without listening to the voice of the sovereign, Mr.Patryk What extension of the commune of Opole. [[How do you know that?]] Minister! I have a fundamental question for you, because you recall the elements on some basis, tells about some huge obligations of the municipality of Opole that it will bear and finance certain solutions for neighbouring municipalities. On what grounds are you saying this? Please specify the legal basis on which the President or the Council of the City of Opola will finance Janoskowe for the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki. There's no legal basis for that. It's calculated on the basis of an algorithm. If it's necessary, if it comes out that you have to pay, then you have to pay. Why didn't you draw up a compensation bill that would regulate this? For the next two or three years, you're gonna be charging a town that's gonna lose 40%. his income. It's not right to act like this. This is a robbery in broad daylight, which the state is trying to force against others. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u119	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The local Poland is extinguished, the local Poland is wound up, the people are not listening to the voice of the people and the local communities are separated. Mr Zgorzelski spoke very clearly about this community. These are not only budgetary matters, but also interpersonal relations, bonds and the building of small homelands. We do not agree to the destruction of small homelands, the ownership by great metropolises of places to live in their space and in the space of their small homeland. And this is not just the voice of the Polish People's Party, but e.g. Bishop Andrzej Cchaja of Opole says: Emotions escalate. Unfortunately, it is not as they said before the elections, that they will listen to the voice of the people. The voice of the people absolutely no one listened. It's a big drama and a problem. This is what the Opole Bishop says about the division of the municipalities near Opole, but this is a matter for the whole of Poland, because here 90% The inhabitants are opposed to division. In the municipality of Kamienica in Małopolska the majority is for division. Where people are by division, there is no division, and where they are against division, there is division. This is, Minister, your strategy. In his reply, the Lord gave no argument that the voice of the people had been heard in any way. This is our biggest charge: the hearing you've been so proud of, the social hearing has not only been suppressed, but one ear falls into your ears, and the other ear falls out. If you're on your way with the sovereign, you call him, but if the sovereign decides otherwise, you just don't care about him. You can't agree to that. We call for a revision of this decision by the Council of Ministers. It is not too late, yet it can be reversed, you only need good will and listen to those who for a long time could not be allowed into the Sejm. But luckily, they're already at the gallery. [[Applause]] Thank you for your determination. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also thank Mr Ryszard Galla, because he is the co-author of this request for hearing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u120	Thank you very much. The next Member to speak is Mr Richard Galla, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u121	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Fellow Members! First of all, let me welcome the delegation of the neighbouring municipalities of Opole, headed by the uncles, who have hardly arrived yet and are listening to our debate. Ladies and gentlemen! On 19 July, the government decided to increase Opole at the expense of 12 localities, the municipalities that were already mentioned today. This decision, made very quickly, in violation of procedures, without taking into account the voice of the inhabitants, has caused much concern. These are protests - I think that colleagues from the Opole Voivodeship know exactly that - every month in Opole itself, recently the blockade of the ring road, and even yesterday also the occupation of the office of Mr Patrick Jaki. This way of expanding Opole also has an impact on the environment of minorities. I must say this as a representative of this minority. Two elements of the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities, the use of auxiliary language and double names, have been violated, but, I think, it's kind of in the background. The Minister spoke very much today about the compensation presented by the City Hall, the President, for the residents of the neighbouring municipalities. Minister, in exactly one month's time, the regulation will be implemented effectively. Today I can say with full responsibility that many things are not arranged. There is no discussion between the municipal authorities and President Wiśniewski. In this connection, I would like to ask you: Are you planning to take on your own initiative the role of negotiator in these discussions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you also envisage taking account of certain compensations? It would be best if you asked the Council of Ministers to postpone the deadline or delete it in the regulation of this point, which concerns the enlargement of the city of Opole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I wouldn't worry that there's no Deputy Minister Jaki here, there's a Member of the Owl, there's his friends, so I think we're gonna be okay. [[How funny.]] Councillors of Opole County have adopted a resolution on the application to the Constitutional Court to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the regulation in question. Minister, I wanted to ask you if you were right. It should be noted that Article. 188 point 3 of the Constitution assumes that we are suing the rights issued by the central authorities of the State, and 16 years ago there was such a line that it is a provision which sets out a repeatable rule of procedure. The Opole Enlargement Regulation has individual characteristics and the tribunal cannot deal with individual decisions every time. Already in 2009, the TK concluded that the regulations on the change of borders are subject to limited controls. He said he was a judicial authority, assessing the compatibility of law with a constitution or another higher order. It does not assess the internal policies of the state, and here we are dealing with the internal policies of the state. On the other hand, what the vast majority of complainants are seeking in such cases is polemicism with a social and economic assessment of division. As regards minority rights, Mr Galla, the problem of the major Opole is not a problem of territorial division in the context of national minorities, but of the potential of the National and Ethnic Minorities Act and of the regional language. Let us use the procedure provided for in the Act - if it shows a deficit, we should seriously consider amending the Law on National and Ethnic Minorities instead of attacking the regulation. And finally, I wanted to say, using the fact that there are representatives of the Podopolska municipalities here, that yesterday there was an outrageous incident. You invaded the law and justice office on the street. Oleska... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Very good!]] ...this intrusion was directed against Deputy Minister Jaki... [[Voice from the hall: And this is a holy place?]] ...you have forgotten that this is also my parliamentary office and the parliamentary office of Anthony Duda. [[Poor guy.]] I've stood by this argument so far, but I think it's outrageous. If you want to block Minister Jakie, you're welcome. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Ministry of Justice, and don't blow up the work of our parliamentary offices. [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u124	Please. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u125	Mrs. Marshal! I don't want any rude pissants here. I'll pick my own friends, sir. Members, on the other hand, are meant to be visited by their citizens. I understand that you lack courage, you are cowards, you cannot talk to people in any way, you stand back to them and there are results. That's why if you do this, the sovereign will chase you very quickly. [[Applause]] [[Just like he chased you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u126	I think that at the next part of this point I will no longer have to give a voice in the manner of correcting, especially in the case of such comments, concerning personal issues, and yet allegations of this kind. This is a remark to Mr Bartholomew Stawiarski. [[Bravo, Marshal.]] Now, please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u127	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear inhabitants of the Podopolska communes, who are here and who have stayed with you, in your little homeland! Poles, nothing happened - this is the narration of the government about its decision to enlarge Opole. Then why the escalating protest? Then why did Bishop Chai say that in this matter the PIS trampled on human dignity? This is why when the municipality of Dobrzeń pays an imbalance budget of over 12 million and the municipality of Dąbrowa is more than 600 thousand.? How? These municipalities do not want to accept the declared support from Opole because they do not allow local communities. What, are you gonna force them? Both municipalities are at risk at this point in time of the commission board. It's done. The government made an irresponsible decision, unmotivated, worse, rash decision. The Opole authorities had the right to conclude, or even such a vision of their development, even if they were based on false and uncontemporary premises of knowledge about development mechanisms. But it was the government's duty to be prudent and responsible. Is it really supposed to be that taking the wealthier - see tens of millions of Opole Power Plant taxes - and adding it to those who envy it is supposed to be a way to develop cities? If that's the case, put it in Moravian plan and urban policy. Is it moral to zero out the development potential of the municipalities of Dobrzeń Wielki and Dąbrowa to make Opole's authorities easier? That's where 17,000 live. people, in these two municipalities, stay. Dobrzeń Wielki will not recreate investment areas, and the municipality of Dąbrowa, which loses them over 120 ha, including 100 in a special economic zone, will not be able to quickly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Opole has not exhausted its development potential. To grow, it doesn't have to be much larger than Paris, Miami, Barcelona or Lisbon. Let us not offend the pride, ambition and ability of the people of Opole. You will permanently be responsible for breaking up the cooperation in the agglomeration, for the conflict entered into this area and the odium that the successes in Opole will come from the fact that the money was taken from the Podopolska municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club, another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u129	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear citizens of Opole! Referring to the words of my previous speaker Mr Stawiarski - yes, indeed, Mr Marek Sowa, Mr Marek Sowa, has friends, friends from the opposition around him, and you, dear Mr Sowa, are surrounded by enemies whom you have made of the inhabitants of Opole. And this happened as a result of a process in which PiS preys, namely, it transfers the conflict of large Opoles to the national plane. I know you don't love the people of Opole, you don't love the Silesians, you don't love the German minority, but stop making this process a national war that unfortunately takes place. Hence my question to the Minister. Minister, hasn't the Prime Minister been misled? Did she have all the information at the time when you voted at the Council of Ministers - information about the protests, about the opponents of this process? I don't think so. As a representative of the Modern City, I see the justification for the enlargement of the city, it is an economic justification, but it cannot be done at the expense of citizens of neighbouring municipalities, at the emotional cost, at the social cost. Because this conflict that arose at the moment in Opole region is fueled by the PiS. What's the worst is that... For years we have built our community in Opole - a community that we established in 1998, when we defended the borders of our province, when we all tried together to keep it on the map of Opole. We managed to merge this Opole community, functioned for years in good comity, as effective local governments, the Opolskie agglomeration was established. Unfortunately, today there is a big crack, which is used by politicians just by PiS to build their position against the weaker position of the German minority, the Silesians of autochtons, all the inhabitants of Opole who lived there in harmony. And that's why, Minister, my question number two, is that for sure the whole procedure for making this decision is [[♪ The bell ♪]] fixed in law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u130	Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, a club of the Polish People's Party, will make another statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the absence of legal bases and the relevant transitional provisions in the Council of Ministers Regulation on the determination of the borders of certain municipalities and cities, how should the status of a town be given to certain towns and cities and the name of the municipality changed in a smooth manner? For example, taking over educational tasks during the school year gives birth, among others, to students. significant doubts as to who will pay salaries to teachers at the end of the year. Was the Council of Ministers aware of this problem when it decided on 19 July 2016? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member. I do not see the Member present. In that case, Mrs Katarzyna Czochara, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear People of Opole! Opole enlargement plans have been discussed and controversial for a long time. Opole hasn't changed her limit in 40 years. It was a fairly regular process before. I would like to remind you that in the 19th century. Opole absorbed Zakrzów in the 1930s. The 20th century - Szczepanowice and the Half-Wywieś took over the entire municipalities of Wójtowa Wieś and Nowa Wieś Królewska in the 1960s. - Groszowice, and a decade later - Gosławice and Grotowice. Minister, my question is: What is the main reason for deciding to increase the borders of Opole? Is it true that the main driver of Opole's development is also territorial expansion? I would like to address Mr Witold Zembaczyński again here. I do not know how he has such knowledge that we, Members of the Law and Justice, do not like the German minority. That is not true. [[From your speeches.]] [[You love them.]] We simply care about strengthening the Opolskie voivodship, and this is clear with the enlargement of the city of Opole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Korzeniowski, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members of the House, I feel sorry for you, but you do have the right to regret it. I was looking at the minister who was talking about these legal aspects. Somehow he blushed because he knew that probably a lot of truth about what he was saying wasn't there. There are so many legal flaws, Mother only! But it's a shame to talk about some substantive stories, because the state doesn't accept it. Then I'll tell you something else. I believe that the idea of PiS is a Satanic idea for the liquidation of Opolskie voivodship. [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] And you have an ace right now. You created a conflict, just as you create a conflict throughout Poland. You guys work on the principle of sharing people. And that's where you guys made it perfectly. You have so beautifully divided the Opole community that no one could do it better. President Kaczyński promised that new voivodships would be created in the election campaign. The uprising of the Częstochowa voivodship, so it is necessary to make this voivodship out of something. It will be best for Opole to split up and cut a piece for the Częstochowa voivodship. You guys have a great idea. [[And Jasna Góra.]] Jasna Góra Voivodeship. This was promised by the president during his visit to Jasna Góra. So that, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, the President's promises must be carried out by fellow Members, and you are merely material, so-called. with cannon meat, which will be used to implement the psychic assumptions according to the PiS regarding this idea. I hope you don't step down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the state through its protests, which are in total needed by the PiS in order to provoke this conflict, will show the whole of Poland that this idea that its performers are puppets in the hands of the great president, and you are his biggest victims. That's too bad, but that's the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u136	Mr Jan Łopata, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Unfortunately, despite what you have just said, it appears that it does not intend to pay for the property taken over, nor does it see the possibility of paying any compensation to the disadvantaged local authorities. In view of the above, I would like to ask how the Council of Ministers intends to do so, because it was the Council of Ministers' decision to resolve the problem of payment for the transfer of municipal property, for which the municipalities have so far incurred significant financial expenditure, and possible compensation for the loss of existing municipal income, as also asked by my previous speakers. And the next question: Will the local plans currently in force in those municipalities whose territories will be reduced also apply in areas taken over by the city of Opole? Will they continue to apply within another municipality or will they expire on 1 January 2017? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u138	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u139	I'm here, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u140	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u141	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The request by the authorities of Opola to change the borders by connecting 13 villages or parts of them from five neighbouring municipalities, as we know, met with both the approval of the residents of Opole and the opposition of the residents, as well as the authorities of the deprived municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister what the benefits for the city of Opole will be to implement the Council of Ministers' regulation on this matter and the motives behind the applicants. I would also like to ask what the authorities and residents who oppose the municipalities are concerned about and whether their depletion of the areas provided for in the regulation will not weaken them economically and will not adversely affect the ability and quality of their own tasks by these local authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u142	Thank you very much. And Mrs Danuta Pietraszewska, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u143	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! Minister! In our country, they are equal and equal. Why did the Council of Ministers not apply uniform criteria when deciding to change the boundaries of the municipalities and did not agree to change the city's borders on the rights of Rzeszów County and Krasne communes, Tyczyn, Świlcza, Głogów Małopolski and Trzebowisko and did not agree to the expansion of the city on the rights of Opole County to the municipality of Turawa, taking into account the weakening of the capacity to perform public tasks and investment opportunities in the municipalities to lose part of its territories, and with regard to the municipality of Dąbrowa, the municipalities of Zbiań Wielki, Komprachcice and the municipality of Prószków, these aspects completely ignored? Or was it important to the authorities that there are national minorities in these municipalities? Mr Stawiarski has already mentioned a possible change in the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities. It is a shortcut to take away at least part of the rights of the German minority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u144	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u145	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 26 years of functioning of local governments, 26 years of Polish self-government. At that time, in 1990, we were happy to say that I was a local governmentman, that the municipality would be built, that it would be independent. It was then that the Sejm adopted laws that established the functioning of this basic link of administration in our country, which created these small homelands, which were to be independent, self-government, which were to care for the development, existence and well-being of the community. Further laws were brought by the county government, the voivodship, but also regulated cooperation and cooperation between local governments and government administration. So why don't we respect the commune? That's why it's smaller? That's because he doesn't have the stamina? Why do we think that in the case of Opole voivodship, the communes bring less for the development of the region than they bring Opole itself? Minister, let us respect what we have created, created, and what is our strength over the past 26 years. Let's respect people even in the smallest town, let's not give up their existence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let us not prevent them from creating and building small homelands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests from the Podopolska communes and those Alwerni from Małopolska listening to us now on television! The controversy with the changes in administrative borders proposed by the PIS concerns a much larger number of local government units than those indicated by PSL Members in the current information. Given that the parliamentary interpelations are being considered with increasing delay, and the regulation will be in force in a month's time, I kindly ask the Minister to refer here and now to the well-known case of Alwernia and Spytkowice municipalities. Having read the complete set of documents on this issue, I can boldly say that the decision of the Council of Ministers violated the standards and principles of the rule of law and came against the overwhelming majority of residents. Moreover, the decision, as well as the whole process of making it, raises a number of doubts. Change in the administrative boundary is not accompanied by practically any substantive reasons. In the municipality of Spytkowice, the area is much larger than the area requested. The letters of the government side reach only the municipality of Spytkowice, and no longer to the municipality of Alwernia, which makes the municipality not only cease to be a party to the case, but also its right to defend and act effectively. Not much, the Council of Ministers changes the border on the basis of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Municipal Government Act without obtaining the opinion of the municipalities concerned, as required by Article. 4a of the above-mentioned Act. Minister, is there a second bottom in this case? In fact, I should ask, what's the other bottom? Is it just one element of heating the continuous Polish-Polish war, or does the other bottom have a completely different dimension? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, we must face the facts and understand that all forecasts indicate that if it were not for the enlargement of Opole, this province could cease to exist in the future. The number of inhabitants of the capital of the region is regularly and significantly decreasing. When it falls below 100,000, in a dozen years, someone might ask: What kind of province is this with the capital of a county town? There is nothing to hide, the city and region are drained by strong neighbours, because they lie in the vicinity of strong regions: Silesia, Lower Silesia. Only a strong region with a strong voivodship city can be a partner of stronger districts. Is extending the borders of Opole an opportunity for its development and development of the entire region, voivodship? And will the inhabitants of all Podopolska municipalities benefit from this as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u150	Thank you very much. Mrs Halina Rozpondek, Civic Platform Club, another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Minister's explanations on this matter haven't convinced me at all. Therefore, I have a few questions. Doesn't the Polish government know that local communities form a local government and that, apart from their votes and elections, it violates the fundamental principles of a democratic rule of law? Art. The 4th Municipal Government Act contains among others. legislation that changes in the creation, merger and division of self-government units should take place with social, economic and cultural ties. Issue of the Regulation referred to in Article. 4. it requires consultation and consultation. The consultation carried out in these municipalities resulted in more than 90% opposition. The question is: Why are you consulting me? I understand that if their outcome were ambiguous, e.g. 50 to 50 or 45 to 55, the Council of Ministers could settle this. But in this case? The inhabitants of the communes are full of grief and anger. This is hardly surprising because, firstly, their opinion has not been taken into account at all, and secondly, as a result of the changes, they will lose influence on the development of their parts of the communes attached to Opole. Have you ever wondered, a government state, how a change of boundaries will affect the development of disadvantaged communities? They will lose specific budget revenues, they will not make the necessary investments, they are threatened with total financial instability, because the best areas are being taken away. There's a spatial mess, there's no telling what's gonna happen to the municipal property, the school system. The regulation was easy to spend, compensation for losses is much harder. Finally, such reflection and question. Today many Polish cities have developmental and social problems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Each of the other reasons. Aren't you worried that this Opolskie precedent will bring about a similar avalanche from endangered cities in order to join the more attractive areas of neighbouring municipalities? Or is it just a green light for such activities, especially for its presidents, mayors and mayors? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u152	Thank you. Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear residents of Opole County! Just a little point, for starters. Opole is the smallest voivodship city in Poland. [[So what?]] Opole region is the most depopulated region in Poland. Does it not seem that this is a serious threat to the existence of the voivodship? Mr Korzeniowski, I think this change can only save the voivodship. I don't know how you conclude that this is the way to liquidate the Opole. [[I know you guys.]] That's a perfectly irrational conclusion. Minister! Is changing the borders of Opole an exceptional event on a national scale? Didn't Opole ever change her boundaries before? Incidentally, this has already been mentioned by a colleague, Catherine Czochar. After changing the borders of Opole, the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki - because it most, you have to admit, loses - threatens to collapse financially? How does this municipality stand against the background of Opole Voivodeship, against the background of the country? Does this change have any effect on the German minority, as mentioned here by some? I mean, these people stay in the same place. [[Well, that's too bad.]] No one's moving anybody, so I don't know what that might do. [[That's weird.]] It's completely unimaginable for me that there's another bottom here that some people see just because the Council of Ministers is from the PiS. Finally, the President of the City of Opole, who applied, never belonged to the PiS and never did. [[It's controlled.]] On the contrary, he was on the Platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u154	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club Civic Platform, another statement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On Opole there are monthlys. What? It's the monthly burying of democracy because it's been vanquished. It's a public consultation. What are they for? In this case, it's all for nothing. In the Great Good we have the best example. At a turnout of 62% The residents opposed the change in the boundaries of the municipality because it would lead to its bankruptcy. However, this did not affect the government's decision. The outcome of the consultation has been completely disregarded. It's a dictatorial solution, not a democratic solution. I would like to remind you that 26 years ago local authorities were introduced so that residents could have an impact on the most important issues that concern them. Too bad the Ministry doesn't notice. It's unimaginable to me. I don't know where you get these, at least weird ideas. I have questions. Will the local plans currently in force in the municipalities whose territory will be reduced also apply to the areas taken over by the city of Opole, i.e. will they continue to apply within another municipality or will they expire on 1 January 2017? Was the Council of Ministers aware of this problem when it decided on 19 July 2016? Has the Council of Ministers analysed how many unused investment areas are concerned with the number of parcels, the area of which is currently in Opole and how much was at the end of 2014? Answer me, what is the real purpose of the Opole enlargement project? I wanted to ask the Minister if he wanted to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doesn't the residents matter to you at all? You own institutions, you go into local governments, and you want to impose your will there, too. Should listening to the voice of the citizens present in the election campaign look that way? That's what you promised the voters. Is this what the famous good change from the PiS should look like? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u156	Anna Cicholska, Club Law and Justice. There is no Member. In that case, Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear People of the Opole Community! First of all, I wanted to say and say to you that I am very sorry that it was you who were the victims of the liquidation by the Law and Justice of your little homelands, which for many decades you built there as much as you could and as much as the situation allowed you. I really regret from this point on that this situation is taking place in this House. And I would even like to say more: that I fear which municipalities will be next in this country. Minister, I'm asking you questions. Please answer how the Council of Ministers intends to resolve the problem of remuneration in relation to the transfer of municipal assets to which the municipalities have so far incurred significant financial expenditure, and how will compensation related to the loss of existing municipal income be resolved? Please say this, Minister, because the media statements of Opole's representatives show that it does not intend to pay for the property it has acquired, nor does it see the possibility of paying any compensation to the affected local authorities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the process of changing the borders of the city of Opole, I wanted to draw attention to another phenomenon, the phenomenon of permanent almost annual change of borders of the town of Rzeszów, which consists in joining fragments of neighbouring municipalities. This is qualitatively different from that of Opole. The town of Rzeszów changed its borders for the first time in 2006 and then submitted further requests to change borders each year. As a result of these several times changes in the Rzeszów borders, the area has increased more than twice, and the population has only increased by a dozen percent. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Development is taking action to mobilise local government units for dialogue and cooperation. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development from the Sejm stand said that enlargement of large cities must not result from the desire to acquire new areas for investment, housing or recreational activities. Such a desire to expand urban areas can lead to a strengthening of the adverse phenomenon of uncontrolled expansion of buildings in these areas. The National Urban Policy 2023, which is also reflected in the Responsible Development Strategy, places emphasis on the need for a compact, sustainable city, which is conducive to reducing the phenomenon of suburbanisation with many negative consequences. One such effect is weakening [[♪ The bell ♪]] the potential of small municipalities. I therefore ask the Minister: Shouldn't the Ministry take action to limit the possibility of changing borders for a given city to just one during a local government term so that there is no permanent annual change of borders of the same municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u160	Mr Zbigniew Aichler is absent. Therefore, please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not a political eater, unlike you, I have no political experience. A year ago, I was chosen by the people of Opole, and it was not because I belonged to a party or represented some business group. They're ordinary, normal people and also the interests of these ordinary, normal people I represent and I want to represent. And to tell you the truth, my hands are falling, and I'm just as sorry in the world. I am sorry that no arguments, substantive, non-essential, personal, none, are able to influence the mode, the process, the process, the process of proceding this magnification of Opole. It's a pity that a meeting that most of you may not know about... But that's the kind of meeting that was at the bpa's. He's in Opole, when we were talking about consensus, about co-ordination, about not arguing completely, so that we wouldn't argue with the people of Opole, ordinary people, citizens. It's all for nothing, and it's scary. But I do have one -- maybe it's my naivety -- naive hope for it to work. And I am appealing here to all parties, and to the protesting party, and to the government party, to decision-makers, but to remember that there is a possibility of cooperation in Opole, because it can actually be so that having, I believe, good intentions, making such, and not another decision, the government or government party can actually lead to collapse, and maybe also the fall of Opole region. We wouldn't want that. Therefore, I call once again for talks, for all sides to sit at the table, and you, Mr. President Wiśniewski, and the protesting state, so that it is not so that the human being will be in Opole, around Opole or in Opole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kukiz, the Kukiz Club15, will be the last to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Council of Ministers, or rather the Prime Minister herself. Prime Minister, you have the words on your mouth: "We serve Poland, we serve Poles, we listen to the voice of the citizens." Then I have a question: Why have you ignored the voices of thousands of citizens and their thousands of signatures, who oppose the integration of their municipalities into the borders of Opole? And the next question is, is this the good change? Because it is certainly not a good change for the citizens of Podopolska municipalities. But it could be good from the perspective of one of your ministers. I have here a question: Are the municipalities that have been joined to Opole simply the price to be paid to President Wiśniewski in exchange for the sonekura for the family of one of the ministers of law and justice in municipal companies? [[Voice from the room: But which one?]] Of course, if you keep your decision in force, today you can do it because you can do anything today because you have several more Members, but I guarantee you that in future elections in Opole you will not give advice, certainly, because I know my people in Opole. These are hardworking, conscientious, decent, professional, and one thing they certainly do not tolerate - covetousness, nepotism and thieves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u164	Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear residents of the communes around the city of Opola! Minister! It was at the request of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club that today's information would give us all the reasons why this decision was taken. But it didn't get any closer, because we didn't get any information beyond what the Minister had already said on the committee. It was just a limitation to reporting how the government limited the functioning of small communities to a stronger one. Mr. Minister, it was a good custom until recently that a man who knew the local government was responsible for local government matters in the Ministry. He knew what the local government was all about. Have you worked for one day in the local government? Our question was simple: how does the government intend to release social tension, which is the result of violating all possible principles, starting with democratic procedures, because there have been consultations, you can say, a social referendum in which 97% People said we don't want to. And yet the decision was made. I had the impression that the Minister's speech was actually more of a speech by the President of Opole's lawyer rather than a minister who presented arguments to the citizens. What is the respect for small homelands? There was a time in history when people were transferred from the territory. It was called slavery. Now it's exactly the same - people don't want to, and they've been forcefully transferred to another community. But in the Minister's statement, I think the answer actually sounded, because it turns out that this change will increase the competitiveness of the city of Opole. What about the other municipalities? We have heard from one of the Members that the Dobrzyn budget will not be balanced... [[Good.]] ... Well-being of 12 million and Dąbrowa - 600 thousand, but will increase competitiveness in Opole. Is this the way to address the development potential of those communities that also have the right to develop? Is it so easy to destroy this community, which in a very complex national structure builds relationships, also relations on the basis of reconciliation? I am asking these questions, Minister, without hope for an answer, because you had this opportunity, and in fact you have only limited yourself to repeating your speech from the committee meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u166	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Mr Sebastian Chwałk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u167	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer your questions, your questions, as soon as possible. Mr Dzikowski, the tendency to drain people. Yes, Opolskie voivodship is just the smallest voivodship in Poland, adjacent to two strong centres: Dolny Śląsk and Śląskie, two large centres which, you can say, suck the potential of Opolskie voivodship. We remember the creation of voivodships in Poland and we remember doubts about the need to create an Opolskie voivodship. This province was actually on the list at a certain stage of work, as part of a political agreement, it was not planned in the original project. It is a voivodship on the map of Poland and Law and Justice would like, the government of Law and Justice would like this voivodship to remain. However, the trend, which appears in the voivodship, unfortunately indicates that the decline in population, economic potential in this voivodship can soon lead to the collapse of the entire region, and thus the Council of Ministers accepted the request of the President of the City of Opole for the development of the centre, the main, potentially the strongest organism in the entire voivodship, which will lead to the development of the entire region. Mr Owl, no need. It seems to me that many of the alarming statements that have been made here are unfortunately not supported by facts. I don't think there's any way to break social ties. The administrative limit drawn on the map He's not able to prevent the residents, the neighbors from contacting him, so I don't think we should talk in such categories that at the moment someone is setting up a wall that the social ties won't be able to cross. These are not physical boundaries; they are merely administrative ones. Mr Galla talks about violations of procedures. The law, which provides the basis for these amendments, has been applied in its entirety and this law makes it possible or even requires such a procedure. Mr Stawiarski says that an application has been submitted to the Constitutional Court. Yes, the Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly confirmed that such decisions should not or should not be fully in its interest, these are individual decisions. I think even if this decision is processed, we can be calm about the effect. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, there is an escalation of the protest in the area. Well, it seems to me, indeed, that such statements, such fueling unnecessary animosity, lead to an escalation of this protest, which I must agree to. Mr Witold Zembaczyński... [[Minister, an imbalance budget of 12 million was information for you.]] I will come to that if you allow me. I didn't interrupt. [[Yes, but don't flatten the answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u168	Gentlemen, please calm down. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: I haven't flattened yet, I haven't finished, so let me, I think I'll give you that information, too. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, national conflict. The Member mentions that there is a national conflict here. The procedure for administrative change of borders in the local government in this case does not have any connotations in terms of nationality. It is a fact that Polish citizens or German minorities live in parts of these municipalities, but it has no influence on the government's decision, nor was it the basis or any reason for making such changes. I think that the national issue is quite wrongly addressed here. Mr Baszko, the issue of teachers' salaries, educational issues. Maybe I'll give you some information that, through the voivodeship, gets to the minister based on data from the city of Opole. We're talking about wages. In November, the Council of the City of Opole adopted a resolution to take into account the legal regulations in force in the areas included in the Opole as regards determining the amount of allowances to the basic salary of teachers and payment for kindergartens. These elements are already being prepared, so I think... It is also mentioned that from 1 January the remuneration of teachers will also be secured by the president, by the city of Opole, is already prepared. So I think that teachers and the whole connected education system have no fear that there are any obstacles to its further functioning, one can be calm about it. Mrs... [[Chochara.]] ... Chochara, yes, development. Indeed, the main reason behind both President Opole's proposal and the subsequent decision or opinion of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is a development issue. The development of Opole, the huge impact on the development of the entire region and the impact on the development of neighbouring municipalities, is all connected and I think we all understand very well that the locomotive of this development will be the city of Opole, but the results and benefits will be for the entire voivodship, for the whole area, so that we do not really have to meet in a debate or discussion about whether the Opole voivodship should function further or not, because its potential is actually going to zero. Mr Korzeniowski asked the next question. He said that this decision, so to speak, was not preceded by any substantive arguments. It seems to me that the procedure that has been applied has exhausted all the elements, all the elements contained in it have been exhausted. I can tell you that you can be calm. All these elements, including the analysis that you presented to the President in your proposal, were part of the proposal and have been considered. Mr Slopata, the question of how to transfer property. According to the law, local governments need to communicate on this issue. There are negotiations going on right now. If this agreement is not reached by the end of the year, the rules allow or even order the President of the Council of Ministers to take such a decision for local governments. Marek Polak, development plans. As I have said before, the development of the entire region is a key element that determines or even makes it possible to... The development elements have in fact decided on the possibility of expanding, the need to expand borders, the creation of new investment areas, new potential, the raising of capital, the scientific community. This will probably affect the prosperity of the entire voivodship. Mrs Pietraszewska mentioned the connection in the case of the town of Rzeszów. Yes, it is indeed such a case that shows that in the last several years, I do not see Mrs Rzeszów enlarged several times. The increase in potential is apparent in absolute numbers. This year again one of the villages was joined to the town of Rzeszów. Probably if the regulations are not amended next year, the town of Rzeszów will also request another connection. This example, I think, is such a good example, initially a very conflicting process, which at the end, [[♪ The bell ♪]] right now, it's basically going with everyone's consent, together. Unfortunately, I don't have time to answer all the questions. Do you need any more time, Minister? Do you need an increase in your time limit? Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: If you don't mind, go ahead. I'm increasing the time by a minute. If it takes longer, then we'll be wondering. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: There were still issues about the history of local governments here. For 26 years these self-governments have of course functioned, they were created just then. A law was passed which provided for such a procedure. At that time, the Sejm, the legislator, predicted, by creating this self-government, that there would be such necessity. This procedure is standard. For many, many years, a regulation has been issued every year with at least 20, 30 content, sometimes even more changes. This year's change, the border shifts were basically eight, it was also the creation of new cities, towns, so that all of this is not unusual. In this particular situation, however, personal animosity seems to be quite important, which makes it impossible to transition fairly calmly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This trial. And the question was, when was the last time Opole City was expanded? It's the middle of the '70s. This process has, unfortunately, not developed since then, so I think that this long period since the last enlargement seems to be talking directly about its necessity. The balancing funds, as you asked, are included in the budget of Opole City. They'll be handed over. Of course, there are media signals that the local authorities will not want to take these measures. For this, unfortunately... I can't help you here. We'll keep an eye on it. I think... [[What are you saying?]] Excuse me? [[What do you say they won't accept?]] That's what they said at the last meeting. [[Voice from the hall: Apparently, they're scraps.]] I don't know if 10 million for the municipality of Dobrzeń Wielki are scraps at Janosik... [[But for what period?]] It's a refund on Janoskov. [[Compensatory act.]] You can say that Janoskov is unfair, because it also takes away the rich, gives back to the poor. [[For what period is 10 million? For what period?]] They're gonna get $10 million this year. It's covering the 2-year Janosic period plus additional resources. That's how it was negotiated. About 3 million is the Janoskie Year's Goodness of the Great, so I really think that we can calmly deal with this subject... [[Stand by.]] ...reinforcement. Yeah, deal with it. Because actually Opole offers quite convenient conditions for those municipalities that actually lose some of the benefits. Nevertheless, I still have to quote that average income per person per person in municipalities is about PLN 1500, and the minimum income in Poland is PLN 387. All these municipalities, which will lose part of their territories, are within the average income range of the municipalities in Poland. One municipality gains even slightly per capita - here we are talking about Komprachcice municipality. So, in fact, absolute figures indicate that these municipalities will be able to function peacefully, provided, of course, they communicate with President Opole in a relatively peaceful manner, in order to take over the funds he has provided in the budget for them. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[And my question, Minister? I asked you a question.]] Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the examination of this... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Unfortunately, I have not responded to all of them, sir. Time is quite short, questions are very much. [[In writing.]] How about this: if you wish, I will reply in writing to those I have not responded to. [[All in writing.]] I mean, I don't see the need for all of them. [[You have to answer.]] Most of the answers were received by the state. Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: I understand you're unsatisfied. Allow me to reply in writing. You have already announced to the Minister that the missing answers will be received in writing. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. [[Do you know the relationship between Minister Jaki and President Wiśniewski?]] Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: If the Member - I allow myself to do so - has some knowledge, there are proper services for this, they must be notified. Plus, among other things. is obliged by the Member. Minister, thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Sebastian Gwałek: Thank you. We have concluded this item on the agenda. Before we begin the next one, allow me to welcome the inhabitants of Zduna commune, Łowicki district. [[Applause]] There are guests on the other side of the Sejm, too. Unfortunately, I do not know where you are from, I do not have this information, but we also greet you. We wish you a pleasant stay in the Seym and, I hope, enjoy it here and in Warsaw. We proceed with the examination of item 50 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft law amending the Law on Assembly (prints 1044 and 1083). No, that's not it. Yes? [[Yeah, that.]] Yeah, that. But these points quickly today... I would like to ask Edward Siarka to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Assembly. The bill is included in print no. 1044. The Sejm at its 31st meeting on 30 November 2016 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 30 November 2016, requests the Sejm to adopt the draft law submitted and to adopt the report on the meeting. In the course of the work on this draft at the committee meeting on request, at the request of Members, mainly from opposition clubs, a number of proposals were made, including one proposal, which concerned a public hearing, but this request could not be carried out because, under the rules of procedure, Mr Marshal referred this proposal to the current sitting of the Sejm and would therefore argue with the 30-day deadline which is required in the case of a public hearing. A request was also made to reject this proposal and reject the report. This request was not accepted. Minority applications have been submitted, which have also not been accepted. One of the main topics in the discussion was also the question of the date of entry into force of the law. Here was the proposal to amend the article. 3 for the Act to enter into force 14 days from the date of the announcement. The Commission also did not agree with this proposal. As I said at the outset, on behalf of the committee, I request the adoption of a report on the work of the committee. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u170	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jerzy Polakzek to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to refer to the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Assembly Law. I would like to refer to my club speech at first reading, in which I encouraged a very reliable, substantive and emotionless assessment of the substance of the changes that this relatively small correction of the Polish Law on Assembly brings. In continuing my club speech, I would like to say once again that I would like to draw attention to the fact that the parliamentary project, the draft of a group of Members who initiated the amendment of the Law on Assembly, is a supplement to the catalogue of these assemblies. In no way does this law, the parliamentary initiative narrows the scope of the rights which has been established in the law in force in Poland, in the law in force in Poland in this respect. In the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - the rapporteur has already mentioned this - the committee rejected minority proposals, which were in fact the deletion of further articles contained in the draft law discussed today. High Izbo! I would like to emphasise once again that, contrary to the voices in the discussions that have taken place in the plenary room, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, sometimes hysterical, small changes that have been introduced continue to guarantee full compliance... [[Small?]] ...Article standards. 57 the Constitution, which ensures the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assemblies, and there is no objective danger of restricting the freedom of assembly, expressing opinions or making demands in various matters of public life. I think that the practice of applying this law in 2016 confirms this conclusion. I would like to remind you that freedom of assembly is at the same time a duty of public authority to ensure the protection of those who organize and participate in demonstrations and to ban any means of repression by public authorities against those who demonstrate peacefully. These are certain, I would say, known to all of us parliamentarians as representatives of the electoral base of a democratic state sitting in the House, which are both included in the current Convention Law and are respected in this relatively small amendment. At the time of the report, it was particularly stressed whether the question of the right to counter-manifestation was discussed, because it sometimes appears in such statements, it can be said, in the spirit that this amendment introduces any prohibition. Absolutely not, once again this kind of opinion, very disinformed and unfair, must definitely be denied. There was a discussion about how in some cases, in particular on cyclical gatherings, which are complementary to this catalog, one should use this separation of assemblies, which, you can say, articulate their demands during the organisation of these social gatherings, I would say areas of activity. Once again, in conclusion, I would like to stress in my speech that the amendment is a correction is a supplement to the catalogue of speeches. A Voivode who is an organ [[♪ The bell ♪]] determining the organisation of these so-called organisations. cyclical gatherings, is an institution known in Polish law as regards the use of voivodeship bodies in these procedures relating to public gatherings. In conclusion, once again, I would like to say that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, according to the report, rejects minority proposals - we do not accept this argument, which was included in these demands - and will support this law in the form also resulting from certain corrections that were recorded in the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Something weak with the applause, no enthusiasm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u172	We ask Mrs Dorota Rutkowska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u173	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government has been systematically, at an express rate for a year, using various methods, such as parliamentary projects, which do not require any consultation, deregulation of democratic mechanisms of the state. This bill is another evil idea leading to a serious reduction of the civil liberties of Poles. How else can one call this draft amendment of the law, which is intended to be addressed to citizens, gives them the right to assembly? And your idea is not a minor correction, sir. He turns everything upside down and gives priority to public authority and the Churches. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, Barbara Grabowska-Moroz of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights said that she did not understand what your project was for. Mr Czartoryski, who claims to be his main author, strongly convinces the maniac, yesterday at the committee meeting also that this is all in the interest of the safety of Poles. I think we understand security completely differently. In your opinion, if you don't let people out on the street, they'll be safe. That's the point of your bill. According to us, people have the right to go out on the street, and public authority is supposed to ensure that they are safe. Similarly, the European Court of Human Rights considers that the authorities should take measures to ensure that all assemblies are held. And there, at the European Court of Human Rights, we will be looking for help. Mr President, when I listen to you, I wonder if we live in the same country. You're repeating information about flying rocks above the heads of demonstrators. When was that? Four years ago, like you said. At that time, the convention law was not yet perfected as it is now. I repeat once again: the law in force was amended in 2015 after many agreements, consultation with different environments, including the PiS environment, after its approval and signed by President Duda. Under the rule of this law, the marches were held twice, in 2015 and 2016, on 11 November. These were large assemblies, which were held without major incidents, as confirmed by the participants at the committee meeting yesterday. At this committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen, there were several representatives of social organisations, because not everyone could come in such a short time. Those who succeeded stressed that you did not give them the slightest chance to prepare detailed opinions on this project. And most importantly, you have not given them the opportunity to participate in the public consultation, and they are essential if an act restricting constitutional freedom of assembly is introduced. This should be a fair, broad consultation. The fastest legislative path you have chosen, which has been used in general, which violates the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and violates the good customs of this House, which have not really existed for a year, has ruled out the possibility of a public hearing. This is unbelievable. Yesterday, on the committee, we tried to fight with modern Members for a public hearing, which with a little good will the Marshal of the Sejm could take place. As you can see, there's only bad will left. Yesterday we received an opinion from the Ombudsman, in a run printed for the members of the committee, because the marshal who got it the day before, and the chairman of the committee didn't think we could use it. Or maybe they didn't want to think about it, because that opinion doesn't leave anything dry on the project. The Ombudsman considers that this proposal should not be adopted at all, since: "The solutions proposed therein are incompatible with the Constitution and the international standard setting out the scope of freedom of assembly.' With your ideas uncomfortable, you can do anything, first drastically cutting his operating budget, but what will you do with international social organizations? What will you do with the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights Nils Muiznieks, who reports on this issue? Poland is subject to monitoring in the area of freedom of assembly. You don't think he's gonna notice the problem because on his recent visit to the marshal, he wrote that everything's okay? Indeed, everything was fine, but it is not going to be so now, because our attempts yesterday to block this project against the freedom of Poles gave nothing. You're acting like a roller. [[♪ The bell ♪]] without a driver who destroys everything that happens along the way. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club at second reading, I submit amendments to this project. We know it's sisyphus work, but we're not going to passively watch you destroy our country. Our voice is also heard by the sovereign. And one last thing. If everything is gone, leave at least the 14-day minimum period of vacathio legis required by law. This will prove that the bill is not forced to work before 10 December 2016, before the next month, because this is what the President of Jarosław Kaczyński wants, who will no longer bear the presence of other participants of these conventions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[In fact, these were more glowing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u174	I would ask you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Mr Jerzy Jachnik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we don't really understand how it can come to such a situation that a law, when there's no rush, takes its course from day to day. In fact, personally, I didn't even know it was a committee meeting. And I agree with the opinion here that, in particular, it should be possible to hold a public hearing during the assembly laws. There is no rush, nothing happens in Poland, no one releases a nuclear bomb, so this process of all de facto laws that enter the Sejm at the moment is unacceptable. I'll also tell you why. This is because, in addition to the changes that were in the parliamentary project, in the 1990 Law, which was the best law, the easiest and best, the amendments introduced in 2011, 2012, then as a result of the Independence March, led to the fact that the majority of the law currently in force is reduced, indicating what the President of the Assembly should have, what he should do, what he should do and what he is threatened with. And, ladies and gentlemen, there is one wording in this law that no one has paid attention to, which states that the assembly may be dissolved when criminal legislation is infringed. Well, no one knows what these criminal laws are, because criminal laws can be different. If we are talking about the rules of the Penal Code, it is a full agreement, but if we are talking about the rules of the Code of Offences, it is that when we use the sound signals at the assembly - I myself have survived many times under the Seym - there are always phones that disturb the peace and start proceedings for the offence. Once a small, short bill is drawn up, it is done with its head and immediately looks at what needs to be taken into account, but it has not been done in this matter. There is another thing about which, listening also to the voices of the opposition parties, one can wonder whether it actually makes sense. Here I would share the view of other clubs that reporting such manifestations should take place in local authorities, not in the voivodeship, because it is beginning to raise suspicion that central authorities, or government authorities, are beginning to influence this, control... [[And duality is.]] ...public gatherings. On the other hand, we do not agree that the act in some dramatic way limits the freedom of assembly, especially in the case of, I stress, large marches, because for these small protests these laws are quite tiring. On the other hand, safety is not meaningless in the case of large ones. Constitution in Article. 57 permits such restrictions if they are specified in the Act. As a result, Kukiz15 will not have any discipline. We make five amendments, which in fact boils down to one amendment: a request for permission to organise a meeting can be made to local public authorities and not to voivodeships. Thank you. [[But you should have crossed out that voivode too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. He will begin, I see, Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u177	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Modern Posel Club on this wrong law on amending the Law on Assembly. I will present three aspects which show how much this project interferes with the constitutional rights of Poles to freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, and which are quite well characterized by the hypocrisy of the PiS in this matter. The first aspect is the decision by Marshal Kuchciński to set a deadline for the submission of the report by the committee. Well, the marshal, who, in the interest of the authority of the High House, rejects journalists from the Sejm, sets such a deadline for the committee to report, that he is blocking the possibility of a public hearing. It is difficult to have more proof of hypocrisy than these declarations of care for the authority of the Sejm, when the marshal knowingly blocks the possibility of a public hearing in such an important area of freedom and civil rights. However, in order to understand the depth of this hypocrisy, we had to see the committee's meeting that examined the project. That's the second aspect. The applicants failed to explain at the committee meeting why this project was at all, why they submitted a bill to the High House which is in breach of the Article guaranteed. 57 of the Constitution, freedom of assembly and the associated freedom to express their views as set out in Article. 54, as well as the rights guaranteed by the European Charter on Human Rights and the case-law of the tribunals, all the more so since, attention, ladies and gentlemen, the problems raised by the applicants under the existing rules are solved. This is the information from the experience so far, even from the day on which the Independence March is organized. Details of the project are omitted in this context, which have also not been explained, e.g. this distance of 100 m between demonstrations. Finally, the third aspect. It seems that it has not yet happened that social organisations from different parts of the social scene speak with one voice. However, these last-minute organisations spoke with one voice during a committee meeting, like the Ombudsman's representative, that this project infringes civil rights, violates the constitution, because once again I will repeat that the problems that the applicants have written about are already in practice solved under the current rules. It is difficult to have more proof of the hypocrisy of the PiS, when organizations participating in various manifestations, marches, also on opposite sides, say that this change is simply unnecessary. In conclusion, I would like to quote the operative part of the Ombudsman's opinion, which is missing from the opinion that takes care of the authority of the High Chamber of Marshal Kuchciński, and is well characterized by this bad project. I quote: In conclusion, it must be stated that the draft law amending the Law on Assembly, print No. 1044, should not be adopted because the solutions proposed in it are incompatible with the Constitution and the international standard determining the scope of freedom of assembly. It's hard to get a better summary. Ladies and gentlemen! Modern will not make proposals to improve this project, because there is nothing to improve. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern also at second reading I ask for the rejection of this totalitarian law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u178	Thank you very much, sir. The remaining part of the time for the club will take place on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS, I would like to ask what has changed in your interpretation of reality over the past year. For a year now, citizens of the Republic of Poland have been going out on the streets and protesting, and you are talking about that we have democracy, that nothing is happening, that everyone has the opportunity to express their thoughts during the manifestation. Then why change the law that you believe is in force? That is my question to the rapporteur. I would also like to draw your attention to one thing that the Ombudsman draws attention to. The Ombudsman draws attention to the hierarchy of privileges for meetings organised by public authorities and churches, cyclical meetings which may take place by decision of the voivode, ordinary - with the consent of the municipality - and spontaneous. If, after the bill has been passed, there is a temporary or local collision of a given manifestation, it will be such a hierarchy of privileges. Why are you making such a fuss? We really are not able to understand this, neither we nor NGOs. [[We're clearing up the confusion right now.]] [[You're destroying the assemblies, not the confusion.]] I would like to draw your attention to one more thing. The legislator who... In fact, I'm not gonna say it anymore. I think you're gonna answer my questions, and I'm gonna ask you the rest when I ask you questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u180	Thank you, Member. I ask Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u181	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! By joining today's second reading of the draft Law on Assembly, I want a clear and clear signal from this stand to all citizens of our country that the Polish People's Party will not support, will not place its hands on the adoption of any legal act restricting freedom and civil liberties. We clearly state that there is no and there will be no consent of us to take over the state or to usurp over other social groups, to push them into the margins of public life and to limit them to express their feelings, sympathy or antipathy to the rulers and oppositions now and in the future. Giving permission on our part to anyone on this kind of practice would be a violation, and even a glaring trampling of principles, which Polish People's Party is and was faithful. The password of the Polish People's Party is not empty for us, if only an electoral phrase. We listen carefully to the voice of the public, which this time gives a clear warning to come to our senses before it is too late. We must not allow for recklessness and vanity, in the name of the so-called. political correctness to escalate social tensions, and perhaps further-reaching forms of citizens expressing their dissatisfaction that could easily turn into social rebellion. Amongst the extremely few exceptions is the adoption in this House of laws without vacathio legis on their entry into force. It's the same thing that's causing us to get a red light. The question is what's going on in this game. The Polish People's Party Club will unanimously vote against the committee's report at second reading. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Kaminski, Circle of European Parliamentary Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is some kind of symbolic buckle. The Assembly Act, the first in free Poland, was passed in July 1990. After 16 years we have a law, which, if it opened, was one of the laws opening free, democratic Poland, is one of those laws which close this free and democratic Poland. She is, in many ways, unacceptable. I'm going to start by saying that she introduces a non-constitutional division of people into believers and non-believers against our civilization. It is because the privilege of religious organizations to organise public demonstrations is to put citizens of believers, in their rights and civil liberties, higher than those of non-believers. Unfortunately, given what is happening in Poland today, this alliance of the throne with the altar, I am able to imagine that in every place where free citizens will protest against the power of the PiS, the local parish priest will humbly report a religious manifestation and then, in accordance with this provision, the civil manifestation will not be allowed to take place. [[It will be.]] And I will remind you from this tribune: every citizen of the Republic, whether he is a believer or an unbeliever, has the same rights. Your messenger was talking about deporting Orthodox people, deporting atheists. This is not a Polish tradition. Polish tradition is a tradition of tolerance for everyone, regardless of whether they believe or believe. And I would like to say that, of course, this current context related to 10 April is very clear here. You don't want to - and I understand it in human terms - to get to worse scenes when you organize the unknown so far in the Polish tradition the monthly tragedy. I do not recall any other tragedy, any other event in the 1000-year history of our nation having its monthlys, because this story is long enough that every day some monthly would fall out. But I understand you're outraged and I'm outraged too. But I thought for you the fact that for so many people, this circus that you're doing around this terrible tragedy on April 10, 2010, that it would be a source of reflection on what you've done with the memory of the victims, what you've done with the memory of this tragedy, since today so many people are laughing at it, and so many people are mocking at what you've done in this tragedy. And that's what it should be. [[Applause]] be the source of your reflection, not an attempt to close the mouth of the opposition. Today again you refer to the worst patterns of Polish tradition, because it was before the war that the voivods had the right to interfere in civil liberties. These are also not the best models of the Second Republic to which you refer, and it is to be glad that Bereza Kartuska is no longer within the borders of the Republic, because I fear that a large part of us would be there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u184	Mr Stanisław Huskowski, also on behalf of the Polish Circle... Polish... Excuse me, European Democrats' Circle of MPs. I wanted to add a few words to your name... Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Poleczek, I think that even with conviction, he spoke from this speaker a few dozen minutes ago about the fact that this law in his view does not in any way restrict citizens' rights to express their opinion, but I really do not agree with it. I do not know, it seems to me that something has happened to Mr and your colleagues, that you do not notice such obvious things, that democracy is not just a concern for the rights of citizens who are protagonists of government, state, etc. You protect demonstrations that are organized with the involvement of the state authorities, I mean the cyclical ones at the moment, but you forbid, obviously, in the same place... [[No, you don't.]] ...in the belt of 100 m, counter-demonstrations. Human rights are, above all, the rights of those who are dissatisfied with the government, dissatisfied with the fact that they demonstrate you, and not others, they may be groups of alterglobalists, they may be groups of anarchists, both of whom - I do not like them, to say the least, but they have a sacred right to participate in the same demonstration. They have the right to do so and to take that right away from them, removing them 100 m from this place is a clear narrowing of citizens' rights - evident. And you should understand that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u186	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan's Free and Solidarni Circle of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill that we are pursuing is governed by the convention law. It introduces the so-called legal order. cyclical gatherings and ordering issues related to the organisation of manifestations and counter-manifestations. In this House, at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and by the media, it is argued that the provisions contained in this proposal limit freedom of expression in the form of a assembly. However, this argument does not seem to me to be intentional. We do not proceed with the prohibition of countermandation, because each of them will be able to take place, except that the distance between the assemblies will have to be at least 100 m. At present, there is often a situation where manifestations are disturbed by counter-manufactures in such a way as to prevent or significantly impede the free continuation of a pre-planned event. I witnessed some of them myself. I believe that ordering these issues is important and very important. The lack of riots during this year's celebration of independence is not a sufficient example for me to improve the situation in the country. We're prosecuting the law for the future. About Free and Solidarni will support this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo! On the side of the citizen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u188	On the list of people who... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, I'm sorry, that's right. You're welcome, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, the Assembly Act demands a radical reconstruction and, above all, a radical review. There's a lot of wrong records in there. It's true. That is not what this amendment does, and that is absolutely not the amendment proposed by Law and Justice. This is one of the reasons why I will make a proposal, an amendment to this law, which will remove one of the more curial provisions that appeared in this law under the rule of the Civic Platform. Namely, in addition to explosives, in addition to dangerous tools, pyrotechnic materials were added as prohibited at public gatherings, which results in the fact that e.g. If, at the end of the public assembly, we want to launch fireworks, or if any national, youth or fan groups want to glamorize with flares - what happens very often - various types of patriotic gatherings, this is being pursued by the police. [[Right.]] This is absurd. From the celebrations in the Tricity in December, through hundreds of events throughout the country, rockets are fired to the Independence March. Mostly the police are lucky to turn a blind eye to this. But it's just being in such duality, in two thoughts, and it's just... [[Pisow Police. There's gonna be real police, nobody's gonna turn a blind eye.]] In the days of platformers, reasonable policemen turned a blind eye to this. Dear Marshal! High Seym! I will make this amendment to remove pyrotechnic materials, because we have already entered explosives, I stress, and other dangerous tools for the Assembly Act. On the other hand, this was yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, and it must be said that indeed all social organizations, including representatives of national organizations, from the National Movement, through the All-Polish Youth, ONR, Association of Independence March, the Independence March Guard, which every year secures the celebrations of 11 November, we all said with one voice - together with other social organisations - that this amendment is unnecessary. It is to us as organizers of the greatest national manifestation every year for nothing. And what is the problem with this amendment, ladies and gentlemen? Well, the problem is... I'm definitely anti-liberal, but here I have to criticize the PiS simply for its etatism. You create tools that any public authority - not only your authority, but any authority that comes, the government - will be able to benefit. She will be able to limit the freedom of assembly by using the tools you create. We, the Independence March, really don't need this bill. [[Ha, ha, ha! And that's a caterpillar, sighed celery.]] It is enough that, for the last two years, a boy with matches, Minister Sienkiewicz, has not been at the head of the Home Affairs Department... [[But there's Błaszczak.]] ...and it turns out that if there is political will and the efficiency of the police, then it is possible to hold assemblies without a problem. [[Now what?]] We We don't need that. I don't know why this bill is even being processed. She comes from some kind of unbelief of yours in the ability to control social order. You have all the instruments, you have the servants. Do you really not believe in the efficiency of these services? [[Because it's about the month, not the march.]] It is simply an expression of such weakness, an expression of weakness of the state, which must regulate such details. It's just... [[A vote of distrust towards Minister Błaszczak.]] Well, we don't have enough swords to report such a vote of distrust, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But we'll think about it. We'll think about it, ladies and gentlemen. [[It's a good thing you don't have a sword at all because it's fear.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Therefore, by submitting this amendment, also thanks to the cooperation with the president of the Free and Solidarni circle, Mr Morawiecki, I am calling for this, firstly, to review the entire law on public gatherings, and not just such a section, and secondly, for you to withdraw, because it really makes no sense, and if, God forbid, there will be an option of left-liberality in Poland someday, it will use it. They're screaming against it today, but they're gonna use this bill and they're gonna do really bad things. Thank you. [[But we've already made a bill and she's even allowed those flares to smoke.]] [[No, she didn't.]] [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u190	We have already completed the presentation of positions, including by the non-attached Member. And let's get to the questions. There are 20 people on the list of people who want to ask a question. We start with Mrs Monica - I have a problem reading the name - Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club. One and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the year PiS has been destroying the Constitutional Tribunal, the Surveillance Act allows services to control Poles on the Internet, the Anti-Terrorism Act violates public freedoms and limits civil rights, tried to objectify women by taking away the rights of Poles... [[Do what?]] ...attacks non-governmental organisations without a doubt, especially public media, making them piss-national. The PiS representative wants to deport the atheists and proposes signing the Loyaleks, and today the PiS destroys the freedom of assembly and again violates the constitutional rights of citizens, violates the case law of the Constitutional Court and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Again, it is accompanied by a parliamentary project, an express pace, a lack of consultation, a lack of public hearing. As we are faced with an obvious manifestation of unequal treatment of the organizers of the assemblies, the pushing of governmental and ecclesiastical organizations, I would like to ask what is the position of the proxy for equal treatment. What is your proxy's position at the moment when the PiS is assassinating fundamental civil values? I ask: What is the position of the applicants regarding the negative opinion of the ombudsman, the negative opinion of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the negative opinion commissioned, from the Office of Sejm Analysis? I also ask: Why, with such a controversial project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which strikes the freedom of citizens, there was no public consultation, why didn't a public hearing take place? And finally: Why should he serve? Or is it that some conventions, such as: Smolensk monthlys will be privileged, because they will have protection thanks to the so-called. Specialist? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u192	Thank you very much. Another Member who asks the question is Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. And I am closing the list of Members who have put themselves to the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u193	Thank you, Marshal. We are working on this bill as soon as possible, but it is clear that it is not fast enough for arguments not to reach you or the public. I listened very carefully to Mr Czartoryski, who spoke about the intentions of the legislators. And he didn't get the subject of the Independence March out of his mouth. And here we hear from one of the main organizers that this bill is against them, that they don't want it. I really did not think that I would live to see such times, that freedom in Poland will be defended by a Member who is not known for defending freedom at all, on the contrary. You have led to such a situation that even those who would like to introduce a quasi-totalitarian system in Poland say that you are crossing all limits. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You're saying... You're making preferences. Where are you guys? To speak of you brown, as one of the messengers said yesterday... [[Objection, Marshal.]] ...that's not enough. You're saying... You want to create preferences for the Church. And have you asked the Church whether, in connection with what is happening here, he wants these preferences? Maybe he doesn't want it either, maybe he doesn't want it at all. You say it's state holidays. But state holidays are for citizens, for Poles. And did you ask Poles if they wanted to? No, you didn't ask Poles if Poles wanted national holidays to have the advantage of being treated differently. You didn't ask anyone, you asked Jarosław Kaczyński to make the monthlys mandatory in every municipality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only the voivods and your ministers want it, you want it. And that's breaking fundamental civil rights. We need to talk about this out loud, gentlemen. Loud talk. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] [[But I didn't name any names.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u194	But I'm in this room too, sir. And everyone knew who you were talking to. And since the questions include not only questions, but also justification... [[I was in charge of the PiS Members.]] ...these questions, sir, are a minute to correct. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Firstly, I would appeal to your marshals to respond to such scandalous speeches as this one, Mr Nitras, because there can be no organizations and political parties referring to totalitarianism in the Sejm of the Republic, in general according to the Constitution. [[Then don't do it.]] So I would like to ask, sir, [[Game in the O.R.]] and I would urge that you do not use such phrases, especially since it is not the national organizations in Poland that are known for the fact that they are engaged in setting up booths, using special services to fight politically, which is... [[Don't put your tongue under the booths.]] ...a significant mark of undemocratic political struggle, but for us, the Civic Platform. So I would ask you very much to pay attention to your language, because this language unfortunately is the language of the formation which is compromised by scandalous practices in our country. [[Your marshal, I didn't use names, there are names in the answer, and you're not giving me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u196	Mr President, please sit in the Parliamentary bench. I'm not giving you the floor anymore. This is not a discussion between you and the Member who just spoke. [[Your Marshal, I regret that you allowed this discussion.]] I'm really sorry that you feel hurt about not giving you the floor, but I'm not giving it to you, and there will be no polemics between the gentlemen here in the Parliament right now. Speaking of the comments made by the Member who just said, I ensure that everyone has the opportunity to comment on the points on which he wishes to speak, hence your statement in the framework of the corrigendum. And now I ask you to ask Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult not to comment on what Mr Winnicki said. I would just like to see the phrases in your mouth translated into actions in everyday life and in what you do on the streets and in your activities, because I have the impression that Mr Nitras in no sentence has passed up with the truth, judging and summing up your activities. [[Applause]] Now, back to the bill itself, I'd like to ask why you don't want to agree to a public hearing on this bill. Is it because you're afraid to hear during this hearing that the bill violates civil rights and freedoms? Are you afraid of public hearing because you will hear that the bill is incompatible with the constitution and international standards on freedom of assembly? And thirdly, do you not want a public hearing because you are afraid that all those who protest today and are willing to protest against what you are doing on the Polish streets will come to this public hearing and just crush this bill? They're gonna crush her because she's catastrophic and unfortunately she doesn't prove you well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Another question - Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u199	Dear Marshal! High Seym! This project should never really be created, because it violates the constitution - I have already said it from this speaker - and the convention. This law restricts our freedom, it is poorly prepared by law, and it does not really exist for your constitution anymore. You are making a huge mess of this law because you are introducing a new concept of so-called. a regular assembly. You take away other powers from local governments and make this mess because, according to the project, the competent voivode, who will inform the municipality where the assembly is taking place about his decision, will be those competences at all such events very... It's just not gonna work. From the point of view of free assembly, it is a very, very disturbing provision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am asking the rapporteur a question. Is it true that this law will guarantee that citizens' rights in Poland will be extended by the fact that people who will participate in cyclical marches, in cyclical gatherings will be guaranteed the safety of life, property, health? 'Cause it's not just the Independence March or the month's march, but I'm mostly driving... [[Confession.]] ...for you, my friend Fame, a sentence. There is also a Schuman Parade in Poland, and it will also be protected. [[Ask them if they want it.]] Those who will be at this parade will be guaranteed safety, and those who oppose will also be able to protest. [[Put the helmets on them.]] And there will be no conflict, there will be no danger. Thank you. [[No one's even asked them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u202	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur a question about who this law is really meant to be for. [[For the PiS.]] Because we've talked about this a lot today, and we don't really know who it's supposed to be for. And I wanted to point out one thing that's very dangerous about all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the public assemblies that have been taking place in Poland for a year are of a spontaneous nature. These are spontaneous gatherings that result from opposition to power. And the introduction of a record of the primacy of cyclical gatherings, pre-planned for spontaneous gatherings, is harmful - we know for whom. We know that groups, very large groups that have been organizing themselves and have been gathering for a year to oppose will not be able in situations where the state will prohibit them when you show a cyclical assembly, to gather in the place where they want to. Which is why I have one more question: Who is this bill for? Because I think it's for all those who disagree with the Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No, no, not really.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The convention law, the demonstration law - there are generally two types of demonstrations, there are pro-government demonstrations and anti-government demonstrations. We can observe pro-government demonstrations in Korea, Cuba, Russia, Belarus. Anti-government demonstrations occur in democratic countries where citizens have the right to express their views, even if the authorities do not agree with them. You are introducing in this law a category of demonstrations of a better sort, demonstrations which the organization will not be subject to the decision of the local government, but will have a separate window, a window at the regional office with a representative of the government in the field, not in the local government, demonstrations which will be more important than civil demonstrations, which will be distinguished demonstrations. Is that still the standard of the democratic state? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is that still democratic? Is this already part of Eastern, anti-democratic, Belarusian law? [[But it's such an element.]] Poland is moving over the last year, on the map is still in the same place, but as far as systemic solutions are concerned, it is still moving east. You still have time, state initiators of this project, to think about it before you pass a bill on better sort demonstrations. I hope that this reflection will reach you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u206	I would like to ask Mr Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club, also with the task of asking questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the PiS! You're uncomfortable in this democratic system, you're very uncomfortable. You've been doing everything you can to keep this democracy as small as possible for a year. You destroy the Constitutional Tribunal, you attack the courts and judges, you destroy the army, you politicize the army, you push these thousands of Pisiewiczs, and now you're still going after the assemblies, so that no one can tell you how bad you are, how bad a change, even though you call it good, you've introduced it. You're adopting a law that's only meant to serve one man. You don't ask anybody's opinion. It doesn't matter if people are happy or not. What matters is that President Kaczyński will be pleased. He's gonna walk on that ladder of his on the 10th, and he's gonna tell more lies. Maybe Antoni Macierewicz can fit in, he'll probably throw in some more of those lies. You make the law for one man, you break democracy for one man. This is outrageous. In your last term of office, you shouted many times here about the democratic package. This was supposed to be such a comprehensive solution to increase the powers of the opposition. I'm not talking about the powers of the opposition anymore, because you've already buried them, and you'd rather bring the opposition out at all, like journalists, from the Sejm. Now, on the other hand, you also want to bring citizens out of the assembly. This is disgraceful, this should never happen. A little recollection because cleaning up after you this mess you're making will be Very, very hard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You guys really need to get off this road. Democracy is a value, it's a great value. Don't act like she's bothering you in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u208	Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform Club. I don't see a Member. Then Mrs Monica Rosa, the club... [[I'm here, this way.]] Oh, there's the Member. You disappeared from the platform bench, so I thought you weren't here. Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u209	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Polakzek mentioned in his speech that it is advisable to separate the assemblies. Yes, sir, it is. These assemblies are separated from each other so that there is no need for conflicts to get in the way, but in fact, this proposal, Mr President, does not lead to separation, but to the elimination of certain assemblies. In fact, cyclical assemblies will have a pre-booked place and time for 3 years. All other conventions will be eliminated here. This unfortunately stems from these provisions. [[No, 100 yards away. Not eliminated, but 100 m away.]] Ladies and gentlemen, here with you I will argue with you all the time, but you are creating these ideas in some completely different reality. [[The word elimination is wrong.]] Mr President, we need to read these rules carefully and refer them to the mother's law. Unfortunately, these assemblies will be eliminated. How will you deal with these issues? That's putting certain conventions in a privileged position, isn't it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Yeah, but not elimination.]] Of course it's elimination. For 3 years in advance blocked place this is elimination, unfortunately. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u210	Thank you very much, Member. And now the next question will be asked by Monika Rosa, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u211	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! This bill, ladies and gentlemen, limits freedom of assembly and limits freedom of expression. And this restriction hits the sovereign very hard, which you refer to in every second of your own speech. Nobody asked for a bill like this. As we hear, no one wants a bill like this. Nobody wants a convention limit. You don't understand what freedom and democracy are. It is that each of us is equal and each of us has the right to express our views. I beg you, respect your citizens, respect your constituents, respect all people and trust them. They can use their freedom and are not a threat to the PiS. What's really going on with the cyclical demonstrations? Are these supposed to be some kind of partitagi that you're gonna be organizing, fearing somebody's gonna disturb you? It's not democracy, it's not freedom. And just understand that Poles want to be free and appreciate those freedoms they have won. Such a system, in which manifestations were limited, once existed. We were all hoping he was gone. You will not limit Poles when it comes to going out on the streets and demonstrating your own views. The question is, what are you gonna do with those people who want to demonstrate against your opinion and against your will? [[Applause]] [[Everyone's gonna have the opportunity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska will ask another question, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u213	Thank you, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, my question concerns the Assembly Act. Why are you introducing an institution of cyclical manifestations unknown anywhere in the world? Is it so that you can organize your monthlys without obstacles? Are you afraid to look into the eyes of people who have different views than you, and could come to the same place at the same time that you would like to reserve exclusively for yourself, for your own views and for your own constituents? Why does this law not provide for the possibility of appealing against the voivode's decision to agree on a cyclical event? This is a violation of fundamental standards of the rule of law. I ask you to reconsider this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, then also Adam Szłapka, a modern club. Mr Adam Szłapka is approaching the speaker, apparently he is now in order. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The right to assembly is one of the fundamental human rights and is a constitutional law. And you premeditatedly introduce this bill as a parliamentary project to skip public consultation, to consult NGOs, to carry out this project in the most simplified form and to ignore all democratic standards. That's one thing. Secondly, you want to give priority to organizing demonstrations or government and religious meetings. [[State, not government. There's a difference.]] State. What does that mean? A citizen for the state or a citizen for the citizen? Are citizens, who do not profess any religion, not members of any Church, a worse category? Third, you want the governor to make a decision about this. Meaning what? You're afraid of self-government because you know they still respect democratic rights. You're afraid that someone might want to organize a demonstration in Żoliborz and the president of the M.E. Warsaw will allow it, and your voivode will not allow it. And fourthly, you want to prevent the organization of demonstrations that will take place near those previously planned. It's back in the '80s. You're afraid of anti-government counterproductives. This is exactly a return to martial law and the '80s. This law symbolically summarizes the year of the rule of law and justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With a muzzle bill, otherwise you can't call it, you're showing how you're running your governments. You're afraid of citizens and you want an autocratic state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u216	Thank you. And now Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Complainer! Why wasn't there a vacathio legis? Tell me what's so important about this bill that you had to throw away this fine 14-day rule. Is it because you were afraid people would go out on the streets, protesting against this bill, so they couldn't protest against the wrong law right away? Tell me why there's no time limit. Why wasn't there a public hearing? Why? Tell me. What will you argue with? At the same time, I would like to ask why you sanction such a saying: the worse sort of Pole. One of the honourable speakers said that those who belong to the Church will have more rights than those who say they are atheists, for they will be in a worse position. This is, however, the sanctioning of this phrase. Here I would like to address Mr Nitras, who invented such an action: a month in every municipality. [[They're the ones who made it up.]] I hope, my fellow Member, that you have not plucked out, because it will be really very bad for our country and for all of us. Thank you very much. [[For every municipality.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u218	Mr Edward Sularka, the Law and Justice Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for the Member of the applicant, namely, I wanted to ask whether, under the applicable law, the Law on Assembly was such a bad situation when it was tried to ask for public gatherings in one place and at the same time and there was actually a collision in many places of two different, divergent countermanifestations. [[Where and when did it happen?]] This is a fundamental question which correlates with the provisions of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 law, which we are investigating today, where it is proposed that all such situations, which caused these conflicts, should be resolved differently. I quote: If two or more assemblies are notified of their intention to be held at least partially at the same time and place, especially at a distance of less than 100 m between assemblies, and it is not possible to perform them in such a way that their course does not endanger the life or health of people or property in significant sizes, the priority of choosing the place and time of the assembly is to decide the order of bringing notices. And that's actually what this tribune is all about. [[That's how it is today.]] This amendment generally has [[♪ The bell ♪]] prevent such situations. I ask you to resolve this doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u220	Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Sulfur! Don't exaggerate. Since last July, the bill has been in operation, and there hasn't been an incident that you've been asking about, unless you mean a case where you collide with each other because you didn't know if the yellow-blue flag you burned was a Silesian flag or a Ukrainian flag. [[Applause]] [[And whether it's official or unofficial.]] Well, then make up your mind. It was indeed a collision in one place of two assemblies. On the other hand, I submit on behalf of the Civic Platform Club an official motion to reject the Act amending the Law on Assembly, prints 1044 and 1083, because we have to do this formally. At the same time, I would like to say that you will soon live to see a situation in which Polish society, proud and convinced, fighting for freedom and democracy, will cry out like yesterday's prosecutor Piotrowicz: off with the commune! And prosecutor Piotrowicz, passionate, will lead this crowd and bring Law and Justice out of this building and from the Polish political system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u222	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As Marshal Kuchciński continues to conceal the Ombudsman's position on this project - I remind you: this position, which is crushing, which clearly shows why this project is unconstitutional and violates civil rights and freedoms - it is on modern Twitter and on my Twitter that this position can be read. It is also on the Ombudsman's pages. I encourage you to do so because this will allow you to understand all of you, including your citizens, why the opposition, so united here, because it has no votes against, is fighting this anti-constitutional project. In a moment's time, the applicant's representative will try to convince that this is such a pro-Citizen project, that it goes against, extends civil rights, but ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you to reach out to this ombudsman's position. There you will see how much hypocrisy this is and how much it is a threat to the right to freedom of assembly and the right to free expression of opinion by citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! I also wanted to ask the applicants about these 100 m, because yesterday at the meeting of the administration committee you were so vaguely explaining how it will be counted 100 m, whether from the centre of the assembly or whether it is not known how, and if it is a march, it will be a march, how it will be 100 m [[♪ The bell ♪]] It'll be counted. That's the clou. It may turn out that this 100 m will actually cause the counter-manufacturing, which is also such a moment of free expression, to be organized somewhere at the gray end of the city, because this march, which is the subject of the applicants' representatives here, will circulate and thus block this counter-manufacture. And one more thing. Is it true that it is really about your monthlys and not disturbing your peace during these months? 'Cause I think it's a clou of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u224	Mr Stanisław Huskowski, near European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rapporteur, who is, after all, a representative of the Law and Justice Club, what has happened during the 16 months since July Ub. When the Sejm adopted the Act in its so-called form and wording and when you protested against one of the provisions concerning the crucifixing assemblies. The text in the project then considered and later adopted by the Sejm was such that it was the municipality trying to negotiate with the organizers to separate them, or to separate them at another time, or to separate them in some way. If the organisers did not agree, then it was to decide the order in accordance with the application. On the other hand, you protested and Mr Sasin spoke on behalf of the club, and I will repeat this once again from this speaker, that, according to the Law and Justice Club, it is an excessive interference in the constitutional right to assembly - that the city should negotiate - and that it is on the authorities of the state - to say further - the public policy bodies should be obliged to ensure freedom of expression in this case. That is what Mr Sasin said on behalf of the Law and Justice Club just over a year ago. What happened that suddenly changed dramatically? [[♪ The bell ♪]] sentence - no negotiations, just a 100-metre lane, a sanitary lane? And the other. What's the hurry? A year ago we debated several times in committee meetings, subcommittees on this subject, invited people from the Helsinki Foundation, the Ombudsman, etc. And even though the term of office was over, and although the Constitutional Tribunal had repealed the relevant provisions and this repeal was to enter into force in November, there was an objective reason to rush, and yet we did so for a number of weeks. There's no rush today. Yesterday's first reading, today's second reading, and tomorrow's third most likely. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the club of the Polish People's Party, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My questions are addressed to the Member of the applicant's representative. In 2015, an amendment to the Law on Assembly was carried out and the amended Act was accepted socially. So what has happened since 2015 that this legislation needs to be amended again today? Is there any particular circumstances that should lead us to change the bill? Next question: Why won't you agree to a 14-day vacathio legis? And last question: Is the amendment of the law part of the democratic package you announced last year? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, for the citizens.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that these terrible laws, which are introduced by the ruling majority in the Polish Parliament... Now is the time not to leave these laws nameless, impersonal. Well, Mr Czartoryski, the restriction of democratic freedoms, that is, the restriction of the freedom of assembly, will go down to history as the act of Czartoryski. Remember that deeply and put it on your calendar. [[It's a shame about names, it's a shame about names.]] It's a shame about your name. That's one thing. And secondly, I would like to quote an article to you. 183 draft constitution by the PiS, which gives the President the right to use the Armed Forces in internal relations in the event of serious riots. I understand the purpose of this bill. You don't want a democratic state. Right now, we're dealing with a parademocracy that you're limiting. You are people who have no idea, how to say it, what civil and democratic freedoms are. Think about it, take a look at a few texts that will make you aware of what democracy is all about, what is the definition of democracy, what a citizen needs, where a citizen is going, what is the purpose of man's life in the end of democracy. Why are you so consistent in this limitation of our world here in Poland? These are regulations that also question the meaning of our presence in the European Union. You're just giving us [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some kind of anti-law. I'd like you to be aware of that. And finally, I want to go back to the classics, to Alexis de Tocqueville. He said that the democratic majority is a serious threat to democratic freedoms, which is directed by the democratic majority. Remember this very carefully, Mr. Polka and Mr. Rozonec. [[Applause]] [[What do you want from me?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, non-member Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not so, Mr President, that this law questions our membership of the European Union, because in this case we would probably be wondering if we could support it. But unfortunately it is not so, it falls within European law. But she's angry for other reasons. [[It is not part of European law and is not part of Council of Europe law.]] What I wanted to draw attention to here is, ladies and gentlemen, a number of problems and a number of minorities which are already in the existing law on public gatherings and which this amendment does not in any way resolve. And they concern these deficiencies, among others. the question of conflicting individual assemblies. On a very simple example, I'll give it. This year a number of counter-pickets were reported, counter-manufacturing on the March of Independence route. It was so cleverly made that those who reported them - because the manifestation, the public assembly could report 30 days earlier - registered them for 2 days, i.e. as if they had been doing so one day in advance, avoided the priority in this way. The Independence March was recorded immediately, at midnight, since it was possible to register for 30 days, so they registered the day before for 2 days to fit somehow into the law. And for this type of small, but important, things should be noted, not introduced into the voivodeship law, the whole apparatus of the state, ceremonies and 10 categories of public gatherings, because it doesn't really make any sense. [[That's right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u232	Mrs Bernadette Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment to the law is very clear and beneficial. Increases citizens' freedom. He treats every social group, organization or party equally. [[Well, Masterton, King's just getting off with that stone face.]] It gives you the opportunity to freely manifest your beliefs in public. The draft amendment shall not restrict or prohibit any manifestation or countermandation. [[Questions to the rapporteur.]] Why is the honourable opposition misleading citizens, lying? You're propagandizing from the Seymary. [[Have you read this bill?]] When I listen to most of the speeches, however, there is a question to the rapporteur, I apologise to the applicant. [[Keep reading.]] Is it true that the amendment of the law will prevent counter-manufacturing against public or ecclesiastical manifestations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u234	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Mr Mieszkowski. Indeed, this bill will go down in history as the Czartoryski Act and I very much sympathise with Mr Czartoryski that you will be associated with a law that closes civil rights. I have a question for you: What if, after this bill has been introduced, citizens go illegally into the street? What measures will you then use against the citizens? Will it be force measures, and will you forbid the demonstration on 13 December that Mr. Frasyniuk has announced? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u236	Thank you very much. In this way, we have completed the list of questions at this point. I would like to speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Sebastian Gwałk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, as we mentioned at the first reading, will, to some extent, increase the security of citizens by allowing them to separate or even prevent unnecessary conflict between groups that want to manifest themselves. [[But go ahead, please, don't be embarrassed.]] Contrary to what we hear, this is not a limitation on the possibility of manifesting. [[What if it isn't?]] We are talking about setting appropriate rules for this manifestation so that there is no unnecessary pressure so that everyone can manifest equally and have equally guaranteed rights and security on these manifestations. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration supports this project. Thank you. [[He's talking about a different bill at all. You haven't read this bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u238	Please take the floor by the representative of the applicants of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Members who have pointed out that I have actually been involved in this proposal for an amendment... [[No need at all.]] ...and in a special way, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, because, in fact, you, by sending your words to me, reminded us that we had times in which these manifestations looked so that those who manifested, for example, were physically attacked. under the Presidential Palace, including older people, women, that we had manifestations on which we saw police officers unnecessarily digging the lying, that we had manifestations, during which bullets were used unnecessarily, demonstrations of miners. [[That was after July 2015? Under the rule of this bill?]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, there is a situation that the honourable Member has reminded us that times have changed, that we are watching very much in my opinion now - I think that a large part of you will share this opinion, at least those who co-organize the Independence March - significant facilitations in manifesting, including the CODE, which manifests peacefully wherever it wishes. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Why the change?]] [[Is this bill bad or good? Because this bill is a year old.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have repeatedly spoken here about closing democracy, about closing the possibility of manifesting, so I would like to make it very clear from this speaker that, according to this amendment, if we ask the question whether spontaneous manifestations can take place, I answer: yes, always, everywhere. [[But?]] If they're organized in the same place... [[By the government.]] ...and at the same time as the state - also, but next door. Also, but next door. [[Why next door?]] If you want them to be in exactly the same place, exactly at the same point, then I ask you what you care about. It means that you care about not having a spontaneous manifestation, just having a confrontation. And here we're different. And here we are, ladies and gentlemen, different. [[And why should the state be privileged?]] If you say that we are giving the right to government, power, to cyclical gatherings, then you are not telling the truth... [[Of course you will.]] ... because the organisers of the Independence March, the organizers of the Schuman Parade may, but they do not have to, apply. If this law is adopted, they will be able, but they will not have to, to apply for registration of march or parade as cyclical. [[Neither one nor the others want this bill.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a law for power, because power does not organize the Schuman Parade or the Independence March. [[That's not what the organizers want.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, really.]] [[Voice from the hall: What's the bill for?]] That is democracy, we propose democracy so that the person who speaks can speak. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But you didn't ask.]] You're now... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Exactly, this is the style that, I understand, fits you more in these demonstrations. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You haven't asked a single NGO for an opinion.]] It hurts you very much that, however, this amendment will guarantee everyone the freedom to manifest, but it will really reduce street confrontation very much. I understand that this may be painful for you, because for the eyes of the camera, street fighting may be nice, but not for us. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room:...fighted.]] [[For now, you're the marcher who's been fighting.]] [[Voice from the room: Because of your provocations.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make one more point very clear. There are no parliamentarians here who asked questions as part of the Question Time: Mr Kaminski... [[Please answer the questions of those who are.]] ...Mr Huskowski from the club represented by those Members who spoke. Mr Kaminski said absolutely disgraceful words about organized so-called. monthlys. Ladies and gentlemen, in our civilization and in our culture... [[Yes, in your civilization.]] In Polish. We believe that everyone has the right to express their empathy as they think. Everyone has the right to express their empathy as they think. Us, for example. We make flowers during the month. [[And there are no months in our civilization.]] But Famek, let me finish. At the Powęzkowski Cemetery also, under the monument, which also commemorates colleagues from the Civic Platform who died. We think we can hang out there a lot, fold flowers. If it bothers you, i.e. Mr Kaminski, that it is disgraceful at all, it is awful that it is even horrible, so I apologize very much, we just fundamentally differ in our views. Personally, I believe that civil rights in Poland, which guarantee people the freedom to express their empathy, to celebrate such anniversaries or other anniversaries freely, are inalienable rights under our conditions. If you think otherwise, we are absolutely different here. To answer Mrs Krynicka's question, I would like to say once again very clearly: no social organisation is prevented from manifesting, no, and no place. It is only a matter of not bringing legislation into a situation where citizens can confront one another or an organisation has an idea to organise such a manifestation, which presumes a forceful confrontation. This is, ladies and gentlemen, you may disagree, but in my opinion this is an extension of civil rights... [[That's not what we're talking about.]] ...because it is to enable citizens to freely manifest their views. Free. [[That's not the point. That's not what we're talking about.]] If Mr. Nitras records the manifestation, will he want to have a fight and a fight with counter-manifestation on this manifestation, or will he want to carry out his manifestation freely? It's just a cloud of this whole thing. You're just trying to... [[To prevent others.]] ... You could show a riot in the streets, and that's not necessary in our opinion. Thank you. [[Don't say things like that, a little serious.]] [[You haven't answered my questions.]] I answered them all. All of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u240	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned... [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: corrected.]] But maybe it's in the end. [[Will you answer my questions? You haven't answered one of them.]] The rapporteur for the committee... [[Not at all.]] ...Mr Edward Sularka... [[Can I correct it, too?]] ...and at the end, let me refer you to your requests for corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u241	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! A number of amendments were tabled in the second reading. We'll discuss them on the committee. On the other hand, it seems to me that one question that came from the grandstand requires a broader discussion or a quote. One of your fellow Members asked whether the law extends civil rights. Well, the State has said a lot about this, in general arguing that the provisions of the law, as it were, restrict citizens' rights. Well, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of this law, we are not talking about extending or restricting civil rights, we are talking about guaranteeing civil rights. This law regulates primarily those issues which are related to public assemblies, ordering conflict situations which unfortunately happen to us under this law. We're looking for a solution. We are looking for such a solution to enable citizens to organise public meetings at the same time and in the same place, demonstrations, but with certain security conditions. If we read literally the provisions of the Assembly Act, please note that the organizer is responsible for the safety of the people who are at the manifestation, also responsible for any kind of damage. In a situation where there is a confrontation, which of the organizers is responsible for such a good cause for the damage which arises as a result of the collision of two manifestations which are in the same place? It seems obvious that we should look for solutions that do not lead to such situations and that enable citizens to express their views without seeing whether they are on the right or on the left, or whether the ceremony is religious. They freely express their views, participate in public or religious celebrations, as well as those who oppose them, also manifest their views, but at such a distance that there are no scenes that cause even interpretation problems later, for example, who is the party that caused e.g. There's been some damage caused by the collision of two manifestations. Who is this bill for? This bill is just for the citizens. She's supposed to guarantee all those who want to manifest freely... In fact, we are witnessing that a number of demonstrations are often held during our sessions at the Sejm. And there are no obstacles here, they're properly secured. On the other hand, we must avoid such situations that at the same time or in the same place different manifestations would collide. This is simply due to the responsibility of those who also take responsibility not only for the organisation of demonstrations but also for the security of all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u242	Thank you very much. Now, with regard to the three requests for correction, I would just like to remind you that the corrigendum may demand a speaker whose speech was misunderstood or misunderstood. [[What if there was no answer at all?]] Referring to Mr Bogdan Rzońca: you were not a speaker at this meeting on this point of debate. That's one thing. [[Exactly. You sit down, sir.]] Secondly, if, as you have said, you have been disturbed by the statement of one of the messengers in this Chamber, then this is the institution of the ethics committee. So sit down, I'm not giving the floor. With regard to the other two, Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus from the Modern Club and Mr Nitras, I do not find any justification for giving time to rectify, because it was only the most ordinary polemic in the world, not the misunderstanding of the statement or the misquote of it. [[But if someone tells me that I want to beat you at demonstrations...]] [[Okay, Famek, I overreacted.]] [[I accept your apology.]] The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 51 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency (prints no 1047 and 1068). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u243	Thank you very much, Marshal. On behalf of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, I wanted to present the outcome of yesterday's meeting. Four amendments were tabled during this meeting - three legislative, editorial amendments and one substantive and precise amendment. The Commission recommends supporting these amendments and they have been adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u244	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And please speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club by Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present a position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency, prints no 1047 and 1068. The amendment of the Act aims to ensure continuity of management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. In the current situation, the procedure for entrusting the management of the agency's activities has been exhausted. To date, competition proceedings have not selected candidates that meet the requirements laid down in the Act. At the same time, a competition was launched for the position of President on the date of entry into force of the proposed law. Competitions initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act shall be terminated. In addition, the project envisages a change in the requirements to be met by the candidate for appointment as President of the PAZP. The rapporteur of the committee just presented the amendments that were adopted at the committee's meeting, mainly concerning these requirements. The date of entry into force of the above Law is specified in the draft at the date following the date of publication. The need for such a short vacathio legis is due to the fact that the deadline for the duties of the President of the Polish Air Navigation Agency expires on 31 December 2016. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club strongly recommends amendments to this law, in print no 1047 and 1068. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u246	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club. I'd like you to present your position to the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u247	Dear Marshal! Minister! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! The area covered by the proposed regulation needs to be organized and adapted to new realities, but the form, the provisions of this law aroused and still raises very serious doubts. Safety of air navigation, services of strategic importance for our country, for Poland, there are no political colours. The safety of people in air transport is an overriding objective, an absolute priority. That is why it is so important to examine in-depth and substantive discussions on safety issues, on the adaptation of the Polish Air Navigation Agency to change, to new challenges in European and global air transport. Unfortunately, such an analysis, such a debate, lacked a comprehensive regulation in this regard. There were also no clear answers to the questions and doubts raised by Members of the opposition at the first reading of this law. Let me just remind you of some of them. Why has it been so long to file an appropriate bill? Could it not be predicted that there could be such a situation as today? Why do applicants opt out of the selection procedure for the president of the agency? How can I explain the fact that over the last 12 months, the management of the Polish Air Navigation Agency has not been selected? Is it difficult in Poland to find a person who has the appropriate experience in civil aviation to fill this function? What is the real purpose of the proposed statutory amendments? Unfortunately, the proposal to give up three years of managerial experience in civil aviation has a clear mark of something that has a second bottom, because it indicates that the Law and Justice have a candidate for this position, indicates that the PiS intends to take over the Polish Air Navigation Agency. This project is incidental and concerns the appointment of a new President and a new Management Board. It is sad that it is a quick process, that it is a very instrumental action aimed at filling posts in another national agency, that there has been no in-depth analysis and substantive debate on air traffic safety, that so far there has been no comprehensive regulation in this area - while the day-to-day vacathio legis raises serious doubts in the context of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Constitution and there is no agreement to reduce the requirements that we place for those responsible for the safety of air navigation in Poland - that the proposed amendment to the Act has a second bottom, that it is only a matter of quickly filling the position of the President of the Board of the Polish Air Navigation Agency with new people from the political key. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have another reading now. On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, I present my position on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The basic objective of the law - as we have said from the beginning - is to ensure continuity in the management of the activities of this agency. At first reading, we have already outlined what these requirements will be extended, the ones envisaged for the future president of the agencies and vice-presidents. This was discussed in detail, it was set out in detail in this Chamber and also in the committee. It is important that we settle outstanding cases as a matter of urgency, because this agency is watching over our heads. This agency is very important as it regulates the air market and ensures our safety. Therefore, here we should help to process this law as quickly as possible. This law does not have any financial, economic impact, nor does it burden our budget. That is why the Kukiz Members' Club15 will vote in favour of the amendments that came from the committee and will support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u250	Please take the floor on behalf of Mr Pawłowski's Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u251	Dear Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're flying lightning through this bill. I am very glad that the PO woke up, paying attention to the fact that we are doing wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, you haven't filled this post in 12 months. You're not answering our question about why this happened. Isn't there a candidate who's loyal to the ruling party? Isn't there a candidate, that's why you're doing this? We agree with Kukiz,15, that with the end of the year, the legal possibility of the President of PAZP is now terminated. Yes, it is. You had 12 months to find the right candidate. You've done two competitions for this position. None of them have really chosen a responsible person to take care of it. That is why you are now amending the law of the Polish Sejm. It's grotesque, too. Do we need to talk about this here? Why aren't you answering these questions? Why don't you admit it: yes, we haven't found, we don't have a candidate, we have to change the law so that we can make up for this self-consciousness, inability to make up for it, and so that PAZP can function. The second thing is that big bill we've been waiting 12 months for. It's been too long. The things that you're going to sort out aren't issues where you have to discover things about which nothing is going to happen. I don't know. We know how to organize this. After 12 months, there's no law. And then, if it were, perhaps the President's question would also be clarified. And the third thing, perhaps the most important thing, is lowering flights. Once again, you are lowering the requirements, the criteria for the candidate. You can't do it like this. Really, PAŻP is an important state institution, the issue of flights is important, it is important and it is important to require people who have the position of president of this agency as much competence as possible, experience. There are people in the country, find them. And answer our questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u252	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u253	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law aims - and here we have no doubt - to ensure continuity in the management of the activities of the Polish Air Navigation Agency, an agency which is responsible for a very important area of functioning of the State, an agency which has special tasks, an agency which should be managed by people with high, undisputed qualifications. And about that, our club has no doubt that there can be no situation that we will not have on 2 January an elected, appointed, bound to perform specific human tasks. But there are doubts about themselves. After all, my previous speakers also asked questions about this matter. I'm not here to look for anything new, to find some unfamiliar texts or subtexts. But 12 months. 12 months. If there wasn't a candidate or an unacceptable candidate, we could have talked about it a little earlier. [[June.]] I also think that safety in every area is a very important issue. And here, lowering the criteria that qualify a candidate is probably not the best option. I hope, Minister, that in the future, and we have another three years of term, we will be able to talk about other issues earlier, discuss and consider some solutions earlier, so that we do not even give any grounds for such suggestions or questions or suspicions that again at the last moment, again without vacathio legis. We're gonna understand that we have to do this because there's gonna be shame or embarrassment. Nevertheless, it is worrying that these criteria are being lowered here. After all, we realize, because we are adults, that you are practically deciding to fill your posts, but for the sake of everyone and yourself, implement this by using mechanisms that will select people with qualifications, without lowering them, without endangering others. After all, there are probably people among the people from whom you are able to accept the candidate, the people with such qualifications. I can't imagine you're not gonna find a candidate like that. And that would be a very good solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u254	Thank you very much. Nobody signed up to speak. Would any of your fellow Members like to ask a question? [[May I?]] If not, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr. Jerzy Szmit. [[I volunteered.]] Excuse me, Minister. If we can, we'll allow one more question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u255	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask: At what stage of the legislative work is the draft law being prepared, which comprehensively and comprehensively regulates the organisation, functioning of the Polish Air Navigation Agency? Because we didn't get an answer to that question. In particular, it is about new challenges, issues relating to the safety of civil air transport. When will it be processed, in particular in the Parliament's Infrastructure and Construction Commission? When will there be a serious substantive debate in this area? I understand the Minister will answer. On the other hand, only one more digression to the Modern One. Mr President, we did not say anything that we did not say at first reading. I would remind you that at that time we agreed conditionally that this project should move on to further work, while those doubts that we talked about, and which I repeated today, unfortunately, have not been clarified. That is why the Civic Platform Club will vote against this law. So much for corrigendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u256	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I will start with this last question, which you have presented, in order to present the state of work on a major amendment of the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. The work on this law began in May of this year. This project is a major amendment and indeed requires very much work. This work has already been partly done. Today we are at the final stage of inter-ministerial consultations and public consultations. Here I can present... This is the result of these consultations, these are the positions of the various stakeholders in this process. So we're already dealing with a very big job that we've done. One of those... But at the same time, it is a really difficult bill. The Polish Air Navigation Agency is to ensure the safety of civil flights, but also military flights, this is also a matter of regulating the work of controllers, it is also a regulation of work, and to enable development agencies in fact. Yesterday, Monday and Tuesday, I attended the Baltic FAB meeting with which we work with the Republic of Lithuania, as well as with the air traffic control services, and part of the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Republic of Lithuania. Even at this stage, we can see that there are many opportunities open to the Polish agency, but we also need to make legal, organisational changes, for example concerning the possibility of creating companies, creation alongside the agencies of entities that can take numerous actions, and above all those activities that can bring the Agency's profits. Today, this is a really serious restriction. Many agencies that operate in Europe under different legal conditions simply make a lot of money not only for flight control but also for other operators, for airlines, for various institutions that operate in the aviation market. Unfortunately, today, in addition to charging, there is no real possibility of using other sources of income. That's what we definitely want to change, and that's why it takes so long. Now, indeed, we have decided to present a small amendment to the High House, which allows the establishment of a permanent, well-established board of agencies, not by competition, but by appointment. Of course, we can discuss whether competitions as such are the only proper form of calling high officials. Some officials are appointed from the competition, some are - on other terms, there is probably no uniform recipe for choosing the best one and the best one. On the other hand, I certainly do not agree - and I say this clearly - with the conclusions or with the voices that have been cast here, saying that we want to reduce the requirements of the agency's management. Really, please read into the changes that are being proposed. On the contrary, we clarify these changes, i.e. these criteria. If the current law refers to the management of an aviation institution, then we are talking about knowledge of the Agency's affairs, so it is perhaps a more precise and unambiguous definition of the competences that should be held by the head of the agency. Maybe not a word of malice, but simply a reminder of the facts. I would like to remind you that, at the end of the last term of office of the Sejm, the coalition at that time amended the Act on the State Air Navigation Agency in order to be able to extend twice... [[Yes, sir.]] ...the duties of the head of the agency, by the way, who has been in charge so far. I find it hard to accept this argument that we're doing some giant revolution here. Since this has already been applied before, do not say today that we are inventing some solutions that are insidious and that have never been used before. What is more, I would like to say without malice, because these are also facts, that the person who was then appointed, whose term of office was extended, who, by the way, has so far performed duties, coming to the agency, had no past connected with aviation, all the more connected with the agency or with the institutions that operate aviation. I'm not gonna go through with this, but that's the facts, so I'm asking you to remember that, too, when we're gonna talk about it sometime in the future. For my part, I would like to assure you of one more thing. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're not late. We act in time. I think this bill is a really small law, to tell you the truth, and it's not really much to discuss here. It doesn't take, I think, two or three months to debate it. I think that one sitting is sufficient time, given the efficiency of the High House and the knowledge of the things presented by ladies and gentlemen in order to bring this to light. I think we're doing a normal, tidy thing here. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the votes extending this discussion so as not to adopt this law today, or voting against it, will actually be votes against the agency, against the security of Polish air traffic, and that is objectively true. However, of course, each of you will make a decision according to your conscience and your own knowledge of things. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to encourage you. To answer this question, which I started from and from, I would like to say that we are at the final stage of drafting a major amendment of the Act on the Polish Air Navigation Agency. I think then we'll be able to discuss it for a little longer, and we'll be able to go deep into the records we're proposing. I think it will already be under the new leadership of the agency, which will be able to support the Ministry, and the State, the High House, will present all the nuances of this very complicated matter related to the functioning of the Polish Air Navigation Agency. [[And why didn't we manage to cast the president for 12 months?]] Then we'll explain how we're gonna talk about a major amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But we're talking now, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u258	Thank you, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Bogdan Rzońca, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to thank all those who took part in this debate very beautifully on behalf of the committee. In fact, the bill is short. Our opponents today are for the first time in the Seym, all three of them, so I must be kind to all of these comments. I don't want to tease and go back to certain historical events. I can only say very responsibly that the Committee on Infrastructure, as having some kind of oversight over the legislative process, but also on the ministry's actions, is sure that we are acting in time and that there have been no omissions that would cause some drastic things to happen with the agency. So, according to the principle of a monastery longer than the Prior, I can say: the agency works, thank God, and it will work even better if we explain these personal issues. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u260	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws (prints Nos 1032 and 1075). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. The report is in print no. 1075 and the draft act is in print no. 1032. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 15 November 2016, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The Education, Science and Youth Commission held a discussion on 29 November 2016 on a draft amendment to the Law on Higher Education. Amendments were tabled during the meeting. There were six of these amendments. Two of them were accepted, two were rejected, one was considered unfounded and one was withdrawn by the applicants. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Education, Science and Youth Committee, following its first reading and the examination of the bill at its meeting on 29 November 2016, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u262	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Law on Higher Education and some other laws, print No 1032, is a project which contains two fundamental issues. The first issue that the amendment regulates is all that is linked to the creation of a new efficient stream of quality grants. The second point or second point of the amendment is to improve the work related to the processing of applications for redemption in part or in whole student loans. This is also related to the matter of rebureaucratizing the functioning of higher education. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as point one is concerned, that is, what is related to the creation of a new, effective stream of grants, it must be said that the existing grant system was primarily based on national leading scientific centres. The operation of national scientific centres was based on the establishment of these centres following competitions. I would like to point out that the existing Law on Higher Education indicates that the number of national scientific centres leading in particular fields of science cannot exceed three. Here I would like to point out that, as far as humanities are concerned, there are 13 disciplines in the field of humanities, nine disciplines in the field of social sciences, and 22 disciplines in the field of technical sciences. As a result, the system of competitions led to the fact that only a small proportion of individual disciplines could have their own representatives in the area of national scientific leading centres. The amendment proposed by the applicant, which is supported by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in its entirety, concerns the creation of a new factor identifying or pointing to scientific units, organisational units worthy of distinction and channelling towards them a stream of grants. This factor is the number of abiturients who have a 100% passed M.A. or a successful bilingual exam or abiturists who are finalists or winners of the national Olympics concerned or international Olympics. Well, these abitizens, choosing the different courses of study carried out by the organizational units, thus point to those places where the Ministry will place increased funds. So the factor is changing dramatically here, and it seems that as we move away from this stony, rigid system, we are moving towards decisions that will be carried out not directly by committees or ministry, but by the candidates themselves for higher education. The second point is the resignation, as I said, of grants for the financing of organisational units for the implementation of the improvement of the quality of education and the KRK. This is about those competitions that used to be held. The last competitions were held in 2012 and 2013, since then the competitions have not been announced, hence the resignation in the amendment of the operation of this grant. Finally, the amendment removes the Commission for Student Loans and Credits. The functioning of this committee in the current legal order has prolonged the process of remission. This was also due to the fact that the committee only met a few times a year. Amendment of the Law on Higher Education [[♪ The bell ♪]] together with two amendments that have already been adopted by the committee, will have full support from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u264	Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u265	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the Act amending the Law on Higher Education. The law amending the Law on Higher Education covers three issues. There is no doubt that procedures and rules will be re-bureaucratized, not the principles of redemption in part or in whole of student loans, by removing the advisory body of the Ministry of Higher Education, the Commission for Loan and Student Credits, and leaving this matter to the ministry itself. We agree with the banishment of the functioning of national scientific leading centres. It's a shame it's so late. This solution, aimed at improving the quality of studies, has limped and discriminated against a number of areas of public life and science. The principle of qualification of these centres also raised considerable doubts by the dominant role of researchers from abroad. The third solution is reserved, namely the definition of the rules for the award of a pro-quality grant. It is intended for public universities, which in some sense discriminates against private entities. After all, funds for quality grants, as well as for the functioning of all higher education, come from public funds created by all actors, especially by private entities today. Understanding the message of this solution - improving the quality of education in universities, it is difficult to agree with the criteria and the principle of granting a pro-quality grant. The solution proposed by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, because such a solution is in fact a proceded act, because this is what Minister Czerwińska already said in May this year, is easy to apply, yes, but will it be useful for higher education in Poland? This is not a model of verification of the quality of education in college, this is not a pro-quality change. This is because the quality of education does not prove, first of all, how it is assumed in the law, the candidate who comes to the university, but the one who studies on it and the one who leaves it. This presentation is a model of the university's potential and ability to attract candidates for college, and often it is It's just tradition. If you listen to the statements of the officials of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the argument for this solution is curiosable. We hear that universities do not have the motivation to verify the level of students already admitted during the course of education. This change is about receiving students from middle and smaller centres. I am surprised that among the applicants are their representatives, Members of Law and Justice. Either they do not understand, or in the name of party discipline they do not pay attention to the even greater polarization of Poland towards the poor and backward one and the leading one. He correctly noted one of the debaters in the committee, who said that Warsaw, Krakow, Gdansk, etc. universities are selected not only because of the quality of their education, but also because of the ease of obtaining work during their studies, which is a normal and mass phenomenon among students today. I also wanted to point out in my statement that, in my opinion, there is a serious coincidence between the introduction of a new grant calculation algorithm and this solution. Of course, the Ministry claims that this is not the case, but it is not only temporary, but also, let's say, the substantive relationships are evident here. The algorithm also hits secondary and lower education institutions. It is introduced in the course of e.g. the academic year with retroactive effect. The Ministry doesn't care about the rules and rigors of recruitment. Universities must adopt appropriate recruitment resolutions much earlier and adapt to them. That's not what the Ministry's looking at at at all. With regard to the position of the Kukiz club15, we wanted to draw attention In addition to the fact that doubts about this law were raised by the rectors of universities present at the meeting of the committee, those who may actually be potential beneficiaries, in particular the beneficiaries of that law. Their caution seems to be justified. We therefore propose two amendments: one increasing the number of potential beneficiaries by lowering the criterion for the award of the quality grant and the other clarifying the criterion for granting the grant so that only those graduates accepted for a given university who passed an extended exam in line with the course of their studies can be considered. For it is often the case that a senior chooses an object for [[♪ The bell ♪]] High school students are not compatible with the direction of their studies. This may lead to circumvention of admission criteria. The Kukiz15 will adopt its position on the bill after the amendments have been submitted to the committees. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u267	High Izbo! Probably most of us sitting here in the Chamber will agree that all pro-quality measures are necessary to take them quickly, urgently in Poland. I remind you that the best Polish universities in world rankings are ranked in the fifth hundred world rankings. We positively assess the fact that we are dealing with the topic, that we are expanding the catalogue of activities that would support the quality of Polish universities, but we do not agree with the narrowing of entities that could receive a pro-quality grant. On what grounds do you think private is worse than state? Do you have the courage to tell millions of Poles who do their own business that private is worse than the state? On what basis do you divide universities into worse and better ones because of the origin of capital or the form of business? Secondly, such a division is unfair from the point of view of a student who should have free choice, freedom to make decisions - if he is an Olympian, an outstanding candidate for college - in which university he would like to continue his education. And this grant following the student should go to the university he chooses, and it could be a very good non-public university. I am speaking here from the perspective of the person who ran the universities, and I know that in our centre of interest and support, there should be students, not organisations themselves. Our next objection is raised by articles that remove the student loan and loan committee. We believe that this is so significant for the PiS: centralisation of decisions and the lack of any social control over the fund that decided on the interest, the granting, the form of lending and loans. In your argument, you state that the committee is acting poorly, that it meets only three to four times, which is rarely that the mechanism for allocating loans, loans should be changed. So let's do this, and we're not taking out an organ that somehow controls the granting of these loans. But what is most important to me is that it is another law that has not been subject to a broad debate, consultation. You change the law without consulting the judges, you change the law of education, pretending to consult teachers or your parents. You are announcing laws to change health care, and we do not hear any consultation with doctors or hospital directors. Here's another bill. You are indeed amending the Law on Higher Education without consulting this environment. This is really amazing. Rectors were present at the committee meeting two days ago. No wonder they're embarrassed and outraged that we're not talking to them. I think that such a conversation could only bring benefits, because there would certainly be new ideas, perhaps more important to improve the quality of Polish universities, only this environment would have to have a voice. High Izbo! It's probably gonna be hard for me to convince the Law and Justice to understand that just because something is private doesn't mean it works worse than the state. But I would like to stress that only full cooperation with the academic, scientific, non-ignorance, will make it possible, together, to really introduce visible pro-quality changes in order to finally pull out, because only so can I define it, our universities in world rankings, so that finally science, which is practiced in scientific centres and universities, is appreciated and reliably evaluated. That's why as a club We oppose the proposed law in its proposed form. I'm filing a motion for rejection, as well as an amendment to the Marshal's hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u268	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor. The Member has given his position in writing. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Higher Education and some other laws. The main objective of the contested law is to introduce changes in the creation of a new, better funding mechanism for universities with a pro-quality grant. According to the Act, grants would be granted to universities where first-cycle or uniform master's studies would start people with the best results at an extended level or who are finalists or winners of the national Olympics concerned. A new form of grant would allow financial gratification for those universities that offer the best quality of education and the most interesting career prospects for seniors. This solution, in my opinion, allows for a fair system of allocation of funds between the best universities in the country. The second objective of the contested law is to improve the work related to the processing of applications for redemption in part or in whole student loans. This provision in the Act eliminates the Commission for Student Loans and Credits and transfers its powers to the competent minister. Over the years, the Commission has lost its rank and legitimacy. This change also makes the credit waiver procedure much shorter. During the work on the law in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, many issues were raised, which also raise my doubts. Undoubtedly one of them is the lack of comprehensive consultation of the draft law with universities and listening to their voices. After all, it is their law that concerns the most, and because of the speed of proceding they have not had the opportunity to analyze the procedated content thoroughly. The second point of discussion is the award of quality grants only to state higher education institutions. As I understand the idea and the need to support the state sector, I am thinking about healthy competition between state and private universities. When both types of higher education exist in parallel in the higher education system, one of them, private, should not be discriminated against. This may undermine the constitutional principle of equality and, in my opinion, discrimination - after all, existing - very good private universities. The contested bill to improve the student loan waiver system is undoubtedly justified. We also look positively at the simplified system of funding pro-quality universities - although with some doubts, which I mentioned earlier. Hoping that the project will be further developed at a later stage of legislative work, the Free and Solidarni Circle proposes that the bill be further processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u270	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform regarding the draft of the revised Law on Higher Education, print No 1032. There are three problems that have already been mentioned in this bill. The most important problem is to change the way the so-called allocation has been made so far. quality grants to public universities. It is also about the liquidation of the Loan Commission and finally the gradual extinction of the institutional units of universities with the status of National Research Centres. I will briefly discuss two of these amendments. I'm going to focus on how to allocate pro-quality resources. Because the liquidation of the committee, as the applicant is justified, will enable the decision to be taken more quickly. We do not know whether this is possible, because in the explanatory memorandum it is said that the minister who will take over these competences - we read about it in the explanatory memorandum - will benefit from the rules and principles previously developed by the committee, so he will use precisely those methods which the committee probably in the best faith and in the best way worked out and carried out in the best way. So it seems to us that apart from the central element, we do not see any other factors that would, say, speed up the decision-making process. However, I would like to pay the most attention to the change that talks about pro-quality funding. So far, these have been two streams: the first was the funding of organisational units with the status of National Research Centres, and the second was the funding of the basic units of universities for the implementation of quality improvement systems. As far as these two streams are concerned, applicants propose that the funding provided for these two tasks should be combined and directed to public universities - as has already been said - those that receive students with the best grades, i.e., as has already been said at the committee meeting, are students who will receive 100 and not less than 85 points. This proposal raises many questions and raises many doubts. First, the system nature. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the resort states that the so-called law is in preparation. an algorithm that's supposed to be a big science finance constitution. If so, is it appropriate to remove one element, even as important as quality grants, and consider it separately. Here's another question: What is the relationship between these two laws? Another important question concerning beneficiaries. It's all about public schools, it's not about private schools. This is one of the conditions under which, if this amendment is accepted, that a pro-quality grant will also apply to non-public universities, the Civic Platform will support this law. Finally, another question concerns public universities themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, good students with a choice of big and small cities will certainly choose the largest cities. Why? And because the labour market in these large cities, such as: Warsaw, Kraków, Poznań, Szczecin, Gdańsk, is much bigger than in small cities. Therefore, there is a danger that these small universities will also be discriminated against, even though they will be public universities. And all these years, we've worked to make these universities grow. That's another concern. Finally, it's a very serious matter. This law was not consulted with the university community, with the rectors. The Rectors stressed this, they reported a whole bunch of problems, doubts and specific questions of substance, which they unfortunately did not receive at the committee meeting, were referred to the regulation. But there is no regulation, so it is very difficult for us at the moment to say how these problems will be resolved. Therefore, in conclusion, the Civic Platform considers the project and the solution itself, as any pro-quality solution, to be very appropriate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas the way it is implemented leaves much to be desired. We will therefore be looking at what solutions will be adopted in further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u272	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please inform me, what is the estimated number of students with the best results of the prom exams or participants in the finals of the Olympiads concerned each year seeking admission to higher education institutions? This will have a decisive impact on the determination of the amount of the quality grant and on the assessment of its possible effectiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u274	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing the question to the Member of the applicant. You accepted - this is the answer I received yesterday at the committee meeting - that these best exams are 85 and 100 points. But let's just assume that these young people won't be much. I'd like to see the financial report now. What amounts have so far been allocated to these two streams of university subsidy, pro-quality subsidy, and what amounts are they going to be today? Because let's just assume that these students with very good testimonies aren't gonna be enough. What's the solution? Whether then the legislative proposal will be such that the Ministry will lower this threshold, e.g. to 75 points, or will it reduce subsidies, saving on this pro-quality support? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u276	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the questions raised in the club speeches and the questions already raised in the last part, very often there was an indication that it stood out, divided, divided into better and worse universities, indications on provincial universities and central universities. In my opinion, this division really has a very large and valuable meaning, but from the point of view of functioning or from the point of view of the development of science, higher education, if we look at the map of Poland, we will see universities better with some ease, and here we will mean those that have a strong scientific staff. Speaking of strong scientific staff, I mean the staff, which not only has many publications, because here, too, one could make such a point that in so far rankings these publications played a very important and important role. At some point we even came to such absurdity that Polish language was less scientific than foreign languages. So strong staff, universities with very strong academic publishing staff, but also very strong centers, which, by getting the right funds, have the opportunity to conduct very rich and diverse scientific research. On the other hand, we're going to have universities that have scientific staff, as it were, and I'm sorry for the phrase, in the enlistment. This is the scientific staff for which the first place of employment, the place where scientific publications are located, are these significant universities, while in these other universities, those that are most often located in the space surrounding these large university centres or located in the space we call the province, but in the positive sense of the word, these people are primarily engaged in teaching activities. And this is the problem that is appropriate for Polish higher education, that in a way, I would say, and also through consultation whether, despite consultation with previous legal acts governing the functioning of higher education, it has led to a situation in which in fact two layers have been separated: this scientific layer from a layer that can be defined as a teaching layer. The effect of this is fatal, because until today, and today, and probably for many years we will feel the effects of this fission, this dualism. It is worth asking ourselves whether, in this situation, we should promote these places and these important scientific centers, which, by doing the didactics, give young people the chance to be really in touch with the masters, really with the profession of the highest world level, and to direct the means to enrich them even more, or should we use this financial blanket, which - as I have twice pointed out in the committee - is too small, try to divide into such tiny pieces, so that everyone gets evenly. [[But they're also private better than public. Mr President, what you are saying.]] This law refers - and in the perspective of 2017 - to Part 38 of the state budget: Higher Education, Chapter 80311, where 251 732 thousand were allocated to quality tasks. zł. According to the information provided by the Ministry, through the adoption of this law, this amendment we will mobilise funds at the level of PLN 79 million just for this pro-quality support. It seems - in my opinion - that thanks to these measures, I repeat this once again, they will be able to enter this area of higher education. The next issue that has emerged, and actually in the club speeches of your Members, is this division into private and, as indicated, state. I would like to say to you that this division is de facto and actually de iure over the division into schools, which are public schools and non-public schools. What's the difference? I don't want to get into the details here. In my opinion, I never said private schools were worse schools. None of us, of the people who have anything to do with higher education, say that non-public schools or, as we have said here, private schools are worse and are bad that private is bad and public, public is good. No, this division is the wrong division. Again, it's a valuable division. In my opinion, such non-public schools can be identified by a lot, which are indeed very high-level teaching schools. We're just going back to where we started, at least for me, where we started, which is whether a school is at the same time the place where science is conducted. If the school carries out scientific activities, it raises funds for scientific activities, if it is successful in this scientific space, then it is indeed a school that deserves to be called a very good school. And now, going back to this division into public and non-public schools, unfortunately, High Izbo, when it comes to non-public schools, they mostly carry out as schools in the literal sense of the word - as higher education schools, which primarily educate, but to a lesser extent carry on this activity, which we call scientific activity. I'm saying, to a lesser extent, because there are exceptions to the rule here, too. In this situation, I repeat once again, a small quilt, these insufficient funds, had to be chosen whether to support those schools that put big funds both in carrying out scientific activities, as well as in supporting the careers of their employees, are these incubators, are those places where this staff is being built. On the other hand, there are non-public schools which benefit mostly - and it is good that they benefit - here again don't misunderstand me - from staff, from those people who have grades, degrees or degrees, or degrees, are gaining or gaining thanks to measures just operating in public schools' space. That's a fact, and we just have to take that as a fact. I would also like to add that when it comes to higher education, when it comes to this division into public and non-public schools, let us remember that non-public schools, along with this important and important objective of teaching activities, are pursuing the purpose of the founder of such a school, i.e. the purpose of the mercantile school, and let us also remember that. We do not have such an objective, or it has not been clearly defined, when it comes to higher education. Yes, we are talking about innovation here, we are talking about some projects that will be carried out in the future and will give opportunities, they are already giving, there is a legal basis for higher education to go in this direction. through innovation, through these activities and they have gained funds for their functioning also in this mercantile dimension. As far as consultations are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, one, actually two points can be raised. I'll point to one first. During the previous term, I experienced this situation - for example during subsequent amendments to the Law on Higher Education, consultations, during which the scientific community was very critical of national qualifications frameworks or payments for the second direction and pointed to the unconstitutionality of this - I give here only two of the most phenomenal, most powerful examples - and yet the vast parliamentary majority of the VII-term Sejm decided quite differently. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I would like to thank all those who participated in the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on this project. I hope that we will be able to reach a compromise in further work on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u278	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u279	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment concerns changes in the financing of public institutions. This is a very important topic, because looking at the structure of funding teaching activities in most universities, it is practically dependent on the state budget. This revision, in our view, brings even more - it is crucial for conducting free stationary studies. For all universities, the distribution of budget subsidies is a key issue. Currently, according to CUS data, on average about 80% Revenues for different types of universities were teaching activities. Many factors have been taken into account in the distribution of grants to universities so far.: number of students, teachers or PhD students, number of grants or type of research conducted by the university. There was also a so-called one. permanent transfer, i.e. the impact of the previous grant. And it is this constant transfer that is significantly decreasing in the project proposed by the Ministry. Unfortunately, the MNiSW did not provide a clear simulation of the effects of the new algorithm. There's a lot of questions. For example, it is not known how many higher education institutions will gain and how many will lose and how much changes will be made. The new rules are due to apply from January 2017, and universities will not have time to prepare for the new mechanism. Of course, the loss of up to 5% of the grant will be painful for the university. There are also many doubts as to whether one of the possible effects of the changes proposed by the Ministry may be the limitation of admission limits by universities. Will this mean that many people either choose non-state universities or, worse than that, give up learning? Therefore, the club of the Polish People's Party will be opposed to the changes made.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u280	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the planned item on the 35th agenda: The report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the draft law amending the Law on Research Institutes will not be considered at this meeting. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 58 hours 16 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 36 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the condemnation of the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called so-called. ISIS/Daish (prints 1039 and 1085). Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz and present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the condemnation of the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called so-called. ISIS/Daish, print number 1039. Inspired by Marek Kuchciński, Marek Kuchciński, the President of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, adopted a resolution initiative on the condemnation of the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called so-called. ISIS/Dasz. The joint committees have accepted this initiative and, after first reading and considering the draft resolution at its meetings on 29 and 30 November 2016, unanimously request the adoption of the following resolution. The resolution of the Polish Parliament on the condemnation of the mass extermination of religious minorities by the so-called "Sejm of the Republic of Poland." The Islamic State. For more than 10 years, a Salafi terrorist organization known as the Islamic State has been causing fear and destruction in the war - ruined areas of the Middle East. The victims of her criminal activity are Christians and other religious minorities who have lived there since the beginning of our Common Era. The great tragedy of the people of the Middle East will not give up a word or a number. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses a deep homage to all the victims of the so-called. The Islamic State, and the victims of other Muslim radical groups, and calls for all parties to respect the inalienable right of religious and ethnic minorities to continue to live in the areas of their usual past - under conditions of dignity, equality and security and full and free practice of religion, without any coercion, violence or discrimination. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland expresses its deep concern at the fact that the so-called criminal activity so-called. The Islamic states, and other extreme Islamic groups, aimed at the Middle East Christian community and other religious minorities, have not met the strong reaction of the international community. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland condemns and rejects such an interpretation of Islam, which paves the way for expansive ideology that legitimizes the extermination of Christians and other religious minorities and is responsible for brutal terror, which also knocks at the door of Europe. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland calls on all sides of the conflict in the Middle East to cease the war activities in which civilians fall victim. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland sends its full support to the Middle Eastern Christian minorities and other religious minorities, who have been paying a generous tribute of blood for their steadfast faith for many years. We do not agree with the extermination of a community living in the Middle East for two thousand years, whose numbers have decreased from several dozen percent over the last century to a few percent. The activities of radical Islamic groups not only in Syria and Iraq, but also in other countries in the Middle East and North Africa are exhausting the signs of genocide and must therefore face our strong opposition. Thus, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland shares the position of the United Nations Security Council as expressed in Resolution 2249 (2015). of 20 November 2015, and the position expressed in the Resolution of the European Parliament of 4 February 2016 on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called. 'ISIS/Daish' (2016/2529 ((RSP)) stating that aggressive extremist ideology so-called. The Islamic State infringes fundamental human rights and international humanitarian law and poses a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security. End of resolution. On behalf of both committees, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I kindly ask the High House to adopt this resolution by acclamation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u282	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Przemysław Czarnecki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the committee draft resolution on the condemnation of systematic mass murder of religious minorities by so-called. ISIS/Daish, print number 1039. At the outset, as a co-author of this resolution, and as chairman of the extraordinary subcommittee to consider a draft resolution on the condemnation of systematic mass murder of religious minorities by so-called. ISIS/Daish, print no. 1039, would like to thank the representatives of all parliamentary clubs for their efficient work aimed at the common goal of condemning the criminal activity of Islamic radicals. The draft resolution does not differentiate the victims of Islamist terror because of their nationality or religion, but as a representative of Law and Justice, a party whose program is based on Catholic social science and teaching the Holy Father John Paul II, I cannot fail to stress the sacrifice of blood, which is the participation of Middle Eastern Christians. It is the area of the Middle East that is the cradle of Christian civilization and the place where the first Christian communities were formed. There, too, despite the different railroads of history, over 2,000. They lasted years in their faith in spite of more or less radical persecutions by the Muslim majority. Sadly, modern times have not brought peace to the Christian community, but have only brought about unimaginable beasts from Islamic salafits. Practically from the very beginning of the conflict in the Middle East, Christians have been paying the highest price for their faith. However, as long as the initial attacks on Christian communities under the Al-Qaeda banner, although bloody, were characterized by great chaoticity, so-called since the uprising of more than 10 years ago. The Islamic States in Iraq, which in 2013 became Islamic caliphate, the extermination of Christians and other religious minorities took the form of mass murder. It is impossible to mention all the crimes committed by Islamists whose victims were representatives of religious minorities. In view of the scale and cruelty, terror must be mentioned after the fall of Mosul in June 2014, thousands of victims among the Assyrians and Jazis during the salafits offensive in northern Iraq in August 2014 or pogroms in Rakka, Al-Hasaka Province and Homs Provinces. Everywhere Muslim extremists appear, their presence brings blood and suffering. Fancy tortures and murders, including the most cruel ones, such as crucifixion, rape and expulsion, are methods of action of so-called fighters. The Islamic State. All these examples are the tragic everyday lives of millions of Christians and other religious minorities living in the Middle East and North Africa. It is worth noting what is also included in the draft resolution submitted by the Polish Sejm on condemning the mass extermination of religious minorities by so-called. The Islamic State that responsibility for the systematic extermination of Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East does not fall solely on the so-called fighters. The Islamic State, but it is also associated with a number of other groups of Muslim radicals, including those belonging to the so-called. moderators. Unfortunately, we cannot say that the problem of persecution of Christian communities is limited to Syria and Iraq. It affects virtually every place where radical Islam grows in strength. This is why I would like to mention thousands of Christian victims in countries such as Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Yemen and Eritrea. The law and justice are solidarity with the victims of religious persecution and pay tribute to modern martyrs for their faith. We also call on the international community to take more decisive steps to prevent persecution for faith and religious affiliation. Law and Justice support the draft resolution on condemning the mass extermination of religious minorities by so-called. The Islamic State and asks other parliamentary clubs to accept it through acclamation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u284	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Platform Club shares the position of the United Nations Security Council and the European Parliament and supports the resolution initiative on condemning the mass extermination of religious minorities by the Islamic State. Particular attention should be paid to the universality of this resolution. Although Christians are most likely to be harmed, they are also experienced by other religious representatives. In the face of the greatest threat, it is not the religion or ethnic origin that matters, but only the human being, which should be emphasized at the time of gaining the strength of the chauvinist environments in the world, in Europe, but also unfortunately in Poland. In its resolution, the Sejm does not condemn Muslim religion and its criminal misinterpretation. Muslims live among us and are no less shocked than we are by the tragedy in the Middle East. The blame of all Muslims would be harmful, especially for those assimilated, also living in Poland, for example Polish Tatars. The Committee on Foreign Affairs should have such resolutions more often. It is known that it will not have an immediate effect and that after it has taken place the Islamic State will not cease its activities immediately. However, there are two aspects of these initiatives: external and internal. On the outside, in the United Nations, in the European Union, Poland is placed among the countries whose heart is to respect human rights and which do not accept their violations. But such resolutions also have an important internal effect, showing Poles, all of us, the values that we follow, the values that parliamentarians are guided by, and the fact that we are not indifferent to the issues of human suffering. As I have already mentioned, in particular in the context of the increasingly brave behaviour of nationalist and xenophobic environments, the voice of Parliament demanding the cessation of repression against all religions and all ethnic minorities has a positive impact. The resolution should also be a reason to reflect on those politicians who oppose real aid to refugees, including Christians, with political capital. Following the resolution of the Sejm, the government of the Republic of Poland should support humanitarian aid for victims of persecution more strongly. Without such actions, the concern of the Polish government, the Polish parliament for the victims will simply be literal. The Civic Platform Club supports the resolution on the content prepared by the Sejm committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u286	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by so-called. ISIS/Dasz. I am very pleased that the Polish Parliament will condemn the mass extermination of the civilian population in Syria, Iraq and other neighbouring countries by so-called. The Islamic State. The war, which began in March 2011 with an armed statement against President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, claimed many casualties. In Syria there are almost 2 million Christians, almost 10% the entire population of this country. After Egypt, it is the largest Christian community in the region of North Africa and the Middle East. So far, it has been freed by the power of its President, who has fought fundamentalism and terrorism. Christians could build churches, meet at services, have permission to conduct religious lessons in Christian schools, sometimes the state gave land to build new buildings where parishes and local Christian communities were developing. After the war, their situation became dramatic. According to the data we have, 3/4 of the Christians living in Homs had to escape to Damascus. Many communities have been attacked by ISIS and other terrorist organisations using the source of civil war. The situation in Iraq is not better. In 2003 there were almost 1.5 million Christians in this country. Today we only have 200,000 of them. And every year another 60,000 goes down. Christians from this very country. Today, the Islamic State seeks to establish a caliphate with Sharia law as a determinant of the way of life for all citizens. There are many organizations that help Christians there on the ground, such as the papal association Helping the Church in Need or the Esther Foundation. From this point of view, I encourage everyone to participate in this assistance as far as possible. Christians are helped in Syria and Iraq through local Christian congregations. Most of these people don't want to leave the country, but if they have to, they run away in communities. We as the Kukiz Posel Club15 strongly support this resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club shares the view expressed by the position of the United Nations Security Council in its Resolution of 20 November 2015, and we share the position expressed by the European Parliament resolution of 4 February 2016 on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by the so-called so-called. ISIS/Dasz. The constant and widespread attacks against the civilian population are a violation of human rights, especially those committed on an ethnic and religious basis, and in every human being they must be completely opposed and repulsed. Every citizen of Syria or Iraq who is simultaneously a member of a religious or ethnic minority has the right to live in safe conditions, with dignity and equality, as well as freedom of religious practice, without violence and discrimination against him. Our particular concern is the constant influential information about the systematic actions of the ISIS to eliminate religious communities whose representatives, including women and children, are killed, kidnapped, tortured and forced to change religion, become victims of sexual violence and trafficking in human beings, and are forced into the army. We also oppose all cases of intentional destruction of mosques, churches, chapels, cemeteries and other places of religious worship, as well as destruction of cultural heritage objects and any sign of illegal trade in cultural goods. On the basis of the above-mentioned UN Security Council and European Parliament documents, we firmly reaffirm and support the inalienable right of all religious and ethnic minorities in Syria and Iraq to continue living in the areas of their historic and customary homeland, as well as to freely practice religion, without coercion, discrimination and violence. Furthermore, we are in favour of respecting the rights of all people living in this region and for the full and equal right of citizens in their homelands, because only under such conditions can we talk about ensuring international peace and security. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u290	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u291	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This resolution is very important and very good that we accept it, but no resolution will give away the tragedy of the situation that we now have in the Middle East. There are war crimes and brutal violations of human rights and genocide every day. And these crimes are committed by so-called fanatics. Islamic States, ISIS. ISIS is also responsible for the start of terror all over the world. We've come to live in constant danger. This is a confrontation, ladies and gentlemen, a civilization that we must win, because this ISIS virus is being infected by growing groups, often until recently by normal young people. Today, even children are forced to execute. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must be an important, solidarity member of the world's family, who has issued a determined fight against this criminal organization. The resolution is needed and we will be happy to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u292	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party I can join the debate on this resolution in order to express my firm opposition to what is happening in the Middle East, condemn the actions of ISIS/Daish, condemn religious fanaticism. Religion, every religion as such, in its assumptions is friendly to man, while religious fanaticism is something we have seen in many recent years. These actions should be condemned. Many words have already been uttered here. I'm glad there's such universal agreement. How else could it be? All Poles, all clubs give a uniform signal that this cannot continue and that we condemn it. It is also a signal to the international community that we join and that we are, we feel threatened, because that is the way to say, as Europe and as the world what is happening in the Middle East or Africa. Therefore, once again, this proposal, which has been presented by your chairman of the committee here, we fully support and strongly oppose all these phenomena. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u294	Thank you. Mr Michał Kaminski, near the European Democrats, has the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important moment in the history of the Polish Sejm, especially during this term - a term which is quite divided, in which we very often argue in this Chamber. From the course of this discussion, the committee's work shows that this issue we are discussing today will not be the subject of such a dispute. Very good. The choice of the words of this resolution that we are debating today is appropriate. This resolution is an opposition to the persecution of all religious minorities by fanatics from the so-called. The Islamic State. It emphasizes, and rightly so, that Christians in the Middle East are the victims of this fanaticism. There are countries where faith in Christ, faithfulness to Christ's teaching is not a pass to privileges, it is not a pass to political careers, but it is a burden that causes the highest price to be paid for Christ's faithfulness, the price of life. There are priests who are with their faithful to the end, are with children, are with women who are raped and persecuted, and carry this wonderful message of Christ's gospel, carry it to the very end, often very bitter. Therefore, it is good that from a country like Poland, a country that boasts - and rightly - this year's 1050th anniversary of baptism, what is this gesture of solidarity towards Christians in the Middle East will sound. I hope that the entire Sejm will support this resolution - I have no doubt about it. I would also like to say very clearly that the words that are in this resolution are words - I will repeat this - appropriate, because they in no way, referring to this right issue, unnecessarily do not ignite emotions, because we need to know that just as Islamic fanaticism is fanaticism, which has nothing to do with true Islam, is a distortion of this Islam, so we would give a sense of success to Islamic terrorists if we were rightfully opposed to their radicalism, their fanaticism, to say 'no' and reject dialogue with Islam and dialogue with Muslims all over the world. Most of them are people who want to live in peace and who not only do not share the views of terrorists, fanatics, but also often, which is worth remembering, fall victim to them, because in both Iraq and Syria, the victims of Islamic terrorists apart from Christians, apart from those of other non-Muslim religions, are also Muslims. Poland rightly prides itself on the tradition of tolerance, Poland rightly prides itself on the fact that for many years it was a good, hospitable home for refugees, it was also a common home for many religions. My previous speaker from the Platform mentioned the Polish Tatars, our fellow citizens, just Muslims. Poland is the homeland of Catholics, Protestants, Orthodox, Jews, Tatars, Muslims. And it is good that from this multi-ethnic, multi-religious Poland today comes the voice of solidarity with those who, for their faithfulness to their faith, for their faithfulness to their beliefs, pay the highest price for their faithfulness to tradition. I hope that this rare manifestation of unity and solidarity, including between us sitting in this House, in our Parliament, will be perceived both in the world and in our society as a signal calling for reflection on what fanaticism leads to, which leads to the feeling that my views are better by nature than those of my neighbor. Just like the history of the 20th century. She taught us that religious fanaticism, national fanaticism and anti-religious fanaticism, because it was and has to be remembered, leads to crime, leads to denial of society, so today we express our solidarity and rightly oppose what is happening today in the Middle East, and those of us who are followers of Christ certainly remember in many prayers about our brothers in the Middle East. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u296	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that such a resolution is needed, all the more so in the context of Mr Tomasz Lenz's statement, who said that there are also risks arising from hatred of different colours in Poland. Yeah, you're right. Six years ago, your party member murdered Mark Rosiak. This killing took place six years ago, and sometimes watching the political scene, I can see that you still have this hateful séance on your part, so I agree with you, sir, 100%. in this context. On the other hand, I have a question for the rapporteur whether it would be possible to extend the content of the resolution to ask for commitment to defend the murdered Christians, but also to people of other religions, to the Committee on Human Rights at the UN, which is the Committee on Human Rights, which is so actively involved in the internal affairs of Poland, among others. by saying that we do not allow abortion in Poland. I don't think that's a problem. only the Polish parliament to address the problem of defending the persecuted for the faith in the world, especially Christians, because hundreds of millions of our brothers have already been murdered or not to turn to the international community, to national parliaments, even within the borders of the European Community, to make similar appeals and, as a result, to take action. I would not have taken the floor if it had not been for a Member who is taking every opportunity to turn the substance of the matter onto political lines, which should not have taken place in this debate, but unfortunately, but it is Mr Tomasz Lenz, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I'm gonna say. The first one started this discourse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u298	Please, Mr Tomasz Lenz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u299	I'll try to get to it. Mr. Speaker! The debate in Parliament's committees and here, in the plenary room, concerned the Islamic State. By paying attention to xenophobia, hatred, dislike for religious, ethnic differences in Europe, Poland, the world, I wanted to ask the High House to remember that such behaviour should be stigmatized, as we are doing today. We all know that in recent months, also in Poland, there has been a beating of students, foreigners due to the colour of their skin, because of the language they used on the street. Ba, a professor who spoke German was beaten in a tram in Warsaw or Krakow - because he spoke German. It is a pity, in the context of such an important discussion that we have held in the Parliamentary Committee thanks to the President and the good resolution that we are adopting, that you are taking the floor and, with such an important resolution that the Sejm is discussing today, you are putting in place political threads. I didn't do it. I disagree with you. I was just paying attention - I didn't give you any specific cases, it was wrong that you did it - for the fact that we had to keep this in mind... [[Me too.]] ...that others should not be persecuted and that because of others no one should harm anyone. Just as in the UK - someone who speaks Polish or works in the UK should not be persecuted by a British man who does not accept the fact that a given Pole settled in the UK and took up his job. No country in the world, no place in the world. [[♪ The bell ♪]] skin color, language and nationality cannot be, there is no right to be, used to haunt someone. That's all I wanted to say, and that's all I said. You've said far too much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u300	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs for their constructive cooperation during the committee work, the result of which was a resolution presented by me. I also thank the Sejm for all these club speeches that support the initiative and advocate such a resolution. I ask all of you to adopt this resolution by acclamation and I believe that this will happen so that we can rise above different divisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u302	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 37 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the European Union's Committee on Affairs on the Commission's draft resolution on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism of financial solidarity (prints Nos 894 and 1036). I ask Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u303	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since this is a second reading, I do not want to deal with your time with the details of the resolution at the moment, because at first reading I presented it quite precisely, and I think that most of you have also had the opportunity to read the details of the draft resolution proposed by the European Union's Committee on Affairs. I will concentrate on the work on this resolution in committee, as well as on the questions that have been asked in relation to the content of this resolution. It rained and returned during the first reading and during the committee meeting the question why this draft resolution at all, whether it was necessary or justified to raise this issue at this point. This is a really important question, so it is worth pointing out why the committee is proposing this draft resolution. To the committee on the basis of the so-called. the co-operation law affects a number of European Union acts to give an opinion. One such act which has led to an opinion is the draft regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national or a stateless person. The Commission is required to give an opinion on such a proposal and can also do so if it is a particularly important project, or is particularly controversial, in the formula for proposing a draft resolution to the entire High House. This may be a draft resolution on the fact that a project violates the principle of subsidiarity - and I would like to remind you that in mid-November this draft regulation was presented by Mrs Kloc, and was adopted by the High House - it may also refer in substance to the objectives of the proposed act. And just such a substantive reference is the proposed resolution that we are discussing today. So this project does not arise for a reason, it does not arise in a legal vacuum, it is not an incident or an idea of one of the Members - it is an initiative of the committee because it has influenced the opinion of the European Union legal act. What is this regulation, this proposal for a regulation of the European Union, which we particularly note in the draft resolution of the committee? Well, first of all, the so-called. permanent correction mechanism for the relocation of refugees. This is about introducing such a system, in short, which will make it possible that, if relatively more refugees are arriving in one selected Member State than other Member States, of course we know that such situations are taking place, then Member States do not accept refugees on their own initiative, but there will be a permanent mechanism which, as a rule, excludes the sovereignty of a Member State as to whether and how many refugees, in what amount, are to be accepted, automatically assigning these refugees to the State concerned. That's the first assumption. The second assumption is the possibility of excluding a Member State from such a mechanism - it is then charged with a fee, which would have to be quite frankly referred to as a penalty imposed on a Member State, with a penalty of not very little, because in the amount of 250 000. the euro for each unaccepted refugee. It was these two proposals that raised the greatest controversy among Members, and rightly so, not only among Polish Members. They are deeply controversial throughout Europe. To be clear, such proposals would violate the sovereignty of the Member States, not only of Poland, of each Member State of the European Union, if they were introduced, would exclude an important part of the refugee policy from the Member State's disposal. And imposing further penalties or sanctions because the State does not want to accept refugees on the basis of trust and automatic mechanism, that is, of course, an unprecedented issue, which is all the more unacceptable. And that's the essence of this draft resolution. In this draft resolution, we point out that these proposals cannot be accepted because they are against the sovereignty of a Member State and that they violate the principle of subsidiarity, which is very important in EU law. The committee therefore proposes that the Sejm react in the form of a resolution. The second question raised during the committee's work is whether this resolution does not deal with just one aspect, the opposition to the mechanisms proposed in the EU legislative act. It's true. I also explained it during my first reading. Since the resolution refers to a specific legal act, it does not necessarily discuss a number of other aspects, and there are not so few of them concerning refugee policy. But since, on the one hand, this allegation was repeated, and on the other hand, false arguments were raised that the Polish government was not even involved in humanitarian aid or financial support for third countries in the fight against the migration crisis, because no one was involved in the migration crisis of the eyes from the Polish side, and certainly not from the Polish government, closed, an amendment was tabled by Mrs Golbik to include this aspect too. This amendment was also welcomed by the representative of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration at the committee meeting, so we decided as a committee to extend this resolution by such a paragraph, a paragraph saying that the government is not avoiding commitment, including financial commitment, to third countries in solving the causes of the migration crisis, because it is not repealed, which is best demonstrated by the fact that the financial amount allocated to the 2016 budget for humanitarian measures related to the resolution of the migration crisis is twice as high as in 2015, which is worth paying attention to in this discussion so that it is complete. In conclusion, it is appropriate that the government, in talks, in negotiations at European level, should know the voice of the Sejm and that this voice of the Sejm should also be a tool that the government can use in these negotiations. For this reason, it would also be good, and that is what I wanted to encourage the High House and your Members to make this voice as clear as possible. In this way it would become a clear, strong tool for the government, and yet that in the hands of the Polish government a refugee policy, which is an immanent element of the foreign policy of the state, lies, I hope, at the heart of all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u304	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my club's position on the Commission's draft resolution on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism for financial solidarity, prints Nos 894 and 1036. The Law and Justice Club fully supports the draft resolution proposed by the Commission for European Union Affairs by the Polish Sejm, together with the self-correction as follows: The Polish Parliament considers that the adoption of the proposed regulation would constitute a violation of the competences of the Member States under the Treaties as regards the social security system, internal security policy and integration policy. High Seym! This resolution was born in conjunction with Regulation COM (2016) 270 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is not acceptable so-called. the financial solidarity mechanism. It's about the amount of $250,000. the euro for each applicant where a Member State of the European Union refuses to accept it. It should also be added that this regulation infringes the subsidiarity principle in view of the so-called "suggestion." the corrective allocation mechanism and the so-called mechanism. the solidarity contribution. As Poland, we are also in favour of helping refugees, but in a safe, safe way, that is to say financially. And Poland does this by supporting financial support, among others. refugees in camps, also receiving emigrants from Ukraine in the territory of the Republic of Poland. These immigrants are in our territory. Poland and our government also help in this way that, at the request of other Member States of the European Union, they send, among others. Police, Border Guard for border protection. High Seym! The issue of the migration crisis in Europe has been the subject of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative. This issue was discussed, among others. at the meeting of the General Committee on Culture held in Palermo in October this year. At the forthcoming session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Central European Initiative in Sarajevo, too, the problem of dealing with the phenomenon of mass migration, which flows across Europe, will be the main issue of discussion. In these discussions Poland took part, takes part and will participate actively. Once again, I state that the Law and Justice Club fully supports the draft resolution tabled by the rapporteur. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u306	Thank you. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present my position on the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the Union criteria and mechanism for the allocation of refugees and the mechanism for financial solidarity. One of the main criteria for the redistribution of refugees between the Member States of the Union is the level of population of the country concerned. We don't think we can agree to such automation. At the moment, Europe needs a strategic programme that takes into account all the problems associated with the migration of non-EU citizens. There is a need for full verification of refugees, with particular emphasis on military and political migration and separation of economic, economic and economic migration from them. However, there is a need for common mechanisms to build a stable foundation in the form of European solidarity. The only unacceptable element is to force the allocation of immigrants by punishing a Member State with a penalty of 250 000. Euro per person per immigrant. This not only will not solve any refugee problems, but it can also cause a wave of hatred and dislike for many Europeans due to the influx of immigrants. Poland has always been a country of tolerance and we have used the hospitality of other countries in the near past. During World War II or during Stalin's terror, we used the help of Romania or Switzerland. While listening to the voice of many church hierarchs, consideration should be given to the possibility of allocating immigrant families, e.g. taking into account - as the Church proposes - 10 thousand. The parish of the Catholic Church, which will not only enable us to fulfil our commitment to European solidarity, but will also enable the full assimilation of these families in the social environment. I am sorry to say that the Polish government has not yet presented any solution to the refugee problem, a solution favourable to our country, but also taking into account European solidarity. It is also reprehensible that the proposed European regulation was passed over time to the Sejm, with a delay of more than two months. Thus, the opinion put forward by the Polish government, which has been prepared by the committees, will not be regarded as a position binding on the European authorities, on which we will all lose. In conclusion, the Civic Platform Club will support the position developed by the Sejm committees, but looks forward to preparing a specific programme on immigrants in our country as a matter of urgency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u308	Thank you. Mr Sylwester Khrushcz, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are talking about a draft resolution of the Polish Parliament on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism of financial solidarity. We as the Kukiz Posel Club15 have been presenting our point of view for several months and alerting, admonishing, pointing out how to lead our Polish cases, not to bring to Poland, to our airports, to our mass events, the dangers we see today in Western Europe. But do the European elites see it? Does the European Commission see this from its glass office buildings? I'm pretty sure it's not. Today, 70 years after the war, in the streets of our cities in Europe we see the army. The army that keeps us safe, the army that protects mass events. Europe has changed. Europe is no longer a safe place to go on vacation, to go to school safely or to go to a game. Therefore, we Europeans should do our utmost to prevent immigrants who are not culturally close to us from coming to us, and we should take care of our security. We've all got eyes on what happened in Calais recently. We see what happened recently in Bulgaria. Is that what we want? What is the European Union's response now, Chancellor Merkel's response? He's talking about a corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees. And this is the answer to Europe's problems? This is the answer to what happened today on our streets, Paris, Munich, Cologne, Brussels? This is blackmail. We are being invaded by free citizens, free Polish people, refugees into our country. It is curial, inexplicable and therefore unnecessary. I regret to say that this way of thinking, the reprehensible way of thinking, is also heard in our public debate. This naive thinking can be seen in our colleagues. I don't know, Marta Golbik's friend. Well, it's unimaginable how you can be so naive and not see the problems that are in Europe. And that is why this direction, that is, the Visegrad countries, what Hungarians, Czechs, Slovaks do, this is the direction of defending our sovereignty and defending our security, which is why this very valuable resolution will be for our government, for all of us, for our country a good tool to show in Europe that we do not want blackmail, we do not want the tool that pushes us to the wall. How can one demand from a country that is developing, which has cast off its shackles, the stigma of communism, 250,000. Euros for one refugee? It's immoral, it's unimaginable. And to sum up, we as the Kukiz Posel Club15 fully support this resolution and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I wanted to present the position of the Modern Club with regard to the resolution on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism for financial solidarity. First, I would like to say that this is a very difficult subject. The whole resolution affects the subject of extremely sensitive, because it affects the subject of war, the subject of people who are experienced every day by this war. And I was very sorry to hear Mr Sylwester Khrushch speak, and I was very sorry to hear him speak at the meetings of the EU committee, on which he repeatedly stressed that refugees should not be allowed in, that nothing should be done in this connection, that these are foreign cultures and that we are facing terrorism. Mr President, you are making a fundamental mistake. As part of our racial purity and ethnic purity, you compare not letting any other culture into Europe with people who live where there is a war that is being killed, who are actually fleeing a country that is controlled by war, directly with terrorists. It's not the same, because terrorism was, for example. What happened on Utoya Island, and one white man did it, I stress. And you can't compare religion directly to terrorism, because terrorism is a distortion that is being funded by Islamists today in the Union, but it's not the same. And all the time - even though the resolution concerns something else, I will say it at the end - I have not learned any way of solving this problem, no method of resolving the conflict, no method of solving the refugee problem. I would like the Polish government to make such a proposal, because it is not art to talk only about the fact that refugees do not want to accept that we do not want to adopt mechanisms. Remember, too, that we are a member of the European Union, we are a European Union together with other countries. You cannot be a member of the European Union selectively. It's such a flexible solidarity. If we are talking about the EU budget and the EU funds, we want help, we want financial support, but if we are talking about helping other countries that help refugees who accept victims of war, we are already giving up this EU solidarity. According to the Office for Foreigners until 2 June this year. A total of 42 persons were granted refugee status, including 21 persons with Syrian citizenship. Is this really such a threat - 21 people in the context of thousands of people who need this help? Can we really not afford to offer help to refugees, how we can help them here, on our land, also financially, humanitarianly, but we should also help refugees every day. Let me remind you that the previous government has committed itself to accepting 7,000 refugees. As I said, 21 people with Syrian citizenship were granted refugee status this year. Referring to the resolution, because I have to say this when it comes to the EU correction mechanism for the allocation of refugees and the financial solidarity mechanism, we, as the Modern one, are in favour of the resolution in this form, the resolution that was drawn up at the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs, because we believe that the amount of 250 000. The euro is an amount not supported by concrete calculations that would indicate a amount that should be imposed and the automatic allocation system is not a good option, nor has it been accepted in a large part of the EU countries. So we will support the resolution, but once again I appeal to Members, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that they do not directly compare those affected by the war, refugees with terrorists, which is being done all the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u312	Thank you. In corrigendum - Mr Sylwester Khrushch.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Golbik! There has never been permission in this room for any extreme racial attacks in Europe, whether on the island of Utoya, or when one religious group attacks another, people of different colors. There's no permission for that. Here's what I'm asking... I just realized you accused me of it. On the other hand, we believe that immigrants need to be helped in their countries, not put them in danger of wandering to Europe. We help them in Africa, help them where they lived. And speaking to you about your liberal approach to this case, about the naivety that you represent in this very spirit... Because you want to accept immigrants, thousands of immigrants to Europe and Poland, and we say no, we don't want to accept them, we want to help them in Africa. Thank you. [[May I, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u314	Excuse me, but let's not go in... [[But my name was mentioned.]] Yeah, but let's not go into polemics anymore. Please, Mrs Możjanowska, the Polish People's Party. [[But it was misunderstood.]] Well, then we can sit for hours. 20, if you don't understand each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u315	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This is our vote on the refugee crisis, because in fact there are few actions by the European Union and members of all European countries. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my views on the Commission's draft resolution on the proposal to establish an EU correction mechanism for the allocation of refugees and a mechanism for financial solidarity. The issue of immigration is the biggest problem facing a united Europe for decades and has grown in recent years. Europe has to deal with this. The European institutions are designed to propose broad and diverse solutions, and the role of the Member States of the European Union is to establish any procedures to address the problem of immigrants. It was Europe who was one of the first to say... This means that Poland in Europe was one of the first to say that not only the number of refugees are important, but the fight against the causes of this situation. This is worth bragging about and it is worth reminding. High Izbo! I fully support our earlier opposition to the permanent mechanism for allocating refugees. Many times I have said that it is not okay to invite guests alone and then force their neighbors to provide accommodation and food. You cannot force and punish others to participate in this aid. We are against the mechanism of automatic allocation and financial punishment for an immigrant. Angela Merkel wanted to help immigrants. It has the right to do so, but it must not cost the rest of the Community. The sharing of quotas for refugees per country does not solve the problem. The financial responsibility and punishment of the Member States is unacceptable. Member States must not lose their sovereignty in the common European Union. The European Parliament cannot adopt opinions against the Member States. In the European Union, the countries of Europe must have the right to their own sovereignty as regards the possibility of shaping their policies. Comprehensive solutions need to be developed because one element cannot only be focused on. In this way, it is impossible to solve problems that have not been caused by Europe, because it is Europe that has become the victim of an unthinkable international policy. Unfortunately, today, the Union is weak to this problem - the refugee problem. After all, thousands of refugees are already in Europe. The European Union and Brussels seem unprepared. The allocation of quotas does not solve the problem. There'll be hundreds of thousands more immigrants in a minute, maybe millions. Will the Union then also distribute these immigrants to individual Member States? Today we are still dealing with an ad hoc rather than a systemic solution, and that is the main problem. The whole EU community should work out a systemic solution, but there is no agreement. No action is being taken to combat illegal immigration. The joint fight, not its legalisation, should be Europe's capital. At the same time, I would like to stress that the European Union, as a community of values, cannot remain indifferent to the tragedy that is taking place before our eyes. Help should be given whenever possible. Humanitarian aid for war zones should be natural. It's our duty. But this solidarity must be reconciled with the possibilities and security of Poland, Poles and Poles. Poland should participate in financial assistance for refugees, the decision is obvious. Poland must be involved in various activities of the European Union and Brussels itself in order to help these refugees. It is our human duty to conduct humanitarian policy, to help people who are really hard-experienced, in fact much harder than Poles even during martial law. It is our duty to realise the human cost of war in the Middle East and the great suffering of people who are trying to escape war and terror. Reception of refugees is a humanitarian decision; it should not be an economic decision. We must remember the thousands of Syrian children we have a duty to help and those who are fleeing the war. They didn't prepare for migration, they didn't choose a country of origin. They've had traumatic moments, and that's something they can't forget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u316	Thank you. Mr Michał Kaminski, near the European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I heard from this stand the word that this resolution is part of Polish foreign policy. Unfortunately, it's not. This resolution is instead of Polish foreign policy, and it is really part of internal policy. You in the election campaign played the issue of emigrants and today you really want to mask this resolution - just like you did about the wreck that didn't return, as you did about the alleged assassination in Smolensk, which you are unable to prove - that you have not changed anything in the immigration policy of the European Union. On the other hand, the situation worsened because Ewa Kopacz's government was able to block automation and agreed to more than 7 thousand. refugees. Today the situation is worse because you are not taking part in the discussion in Europe. You insulted yourself and stomped on your feet, you're out of this discussion. That is why today Europe is adopting solutions - and here consent - not good for us. It's $250,000. The euro is a amount that, of course, cannot be accepted, but in order to say that we disagree with something, we need to participate in the debate. But, ironically, you could say, "You should be happy, this is the success of the Europe you are talking about." You are talking about a Europe in which we need to renationalise a policy in which national selfishness is to be higher than the common European interest than European integration, because, according to your President, we are at risk as part of this European integration. That is precisely the wrong solution that the Union is proposing today, that is the triumph of national selfishness. This is the triumph of the stronger and richer over us. Such a Europe wins today if we ourselves say that we want this Europe. Because, of course, Poland is a beneficiary of European solidarity. Poland is a beneficiary of the fact that national selfishness is lower than a sense of European community. This allows us to build highways, so that we can change our country for the better. Local authorities of Law and Justice, who can and can do this in many places, also take advantage of the European opportunity. If Europe of national selfishness wins, Poland in this Europe will lose because it is simply weaker, as you admit and what you just have to admit. There is a need to take part in this debate, but this debate needs to be balanced between what is rational and certainly - and here again consent - is not a rational saying: we are opening the borders of the European Union to all, because it results in the influx of migrants who are not often refugees and are simply economic migrants... Today I hear the so-called mouth. Polish right still these catastrophic visions, how dramatically it is in the west of Europe, but I say two simple facts: these immigrants do not want to come to Poland - in any case you can not see this huge desire - they just want to move to this terrible Western Europe, but also I do not see thousands of French, Germans or British people moving to Poland ruled by good change, but vice versa - it is rather still Poles looking for their place in Western Europe, because somehow they are better off there. Of course, Poland should take part in this debate and should stress what the previous government and former Prime Minister, Ms Ewa Kopacz, stressed. Poland cannot take on the same obligations as rich Germany, especially since it was not Poland that invited immigrants. But as far as Poland is concerned, even in a very important matter that is taking place in front of us today, namely on European solidarity towards Ukraine, against Russian nationalism, again - I have no illusions - we are together. The people of this and this political room want Europe to be solidarity with the Russian threat. However, if we look forward to the key issue of European solidarity for us, we cannot say that we do not want this solidarity on other issues. Let me stress once again: The good answer to the refugee problem and to the other problems of Europe is common sense, and common sense certainly is not the opening of the borders of the European Union, as well as the creation of European integration understood as the inclusion of our national interests, the interests of all the countries of the European Union, which is difficult, in this large European context, in this large European project. Then Poland wins. He wins if he's a player, not a twitching leg, insulted at all by an outsider, which is someone who's standing on the sidelines. Poland should be at the heart of the European debate, because Poland should be European. Poland should pursue its policy in the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u318	Thank you. Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u319	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The applicant for the proposed resolution of the Polish Sejm on the proposal to establish an EU corrective mechanism for the allocation of refugees and the financial solidarity mechanism proposes to maintain the position expressed in its resolution of 1 April 2016 on the immigration policy of Poland, in which he opposed any attempts to establish permanent mechanisms for the allocation of refugees or migrants. The proposed regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Regulation of the Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 infringes the principle of subsidiarity and its adoption would constitute a violation of the competences of the Member States under the Treaties as regards the social security system, internal security policy and integration policy. Moreover, the introduction of such a system of redistribution of migrants could lead to an increase in the flow of illegal immigrants to the European Union and thus to Poland. At its 28th meeting, the High House addressed this proposal to the committee. The Commission for Administration and Home Affairs and the Commission for European Affairs, after considering this draft resolution at its meeting on 16 November 2016, decided to recommend the adoption of the attached draft resolution to the High Sejm. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland objects to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, but I will remind you that the leaders of some European Union countries, inviting Muslim immigrants, did not ask Poland for advice and cannot hold us responsible for their mistakes today. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u320	Thank you. Mr Jan Klaviter, not associated, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Right of the Republic, I would like to express my disappointment at the way the European Union solves the problem of migrants. The European Union has not stood up to the task at all. It is to be a community of states, and it turns out that it is only a community of selfishness. Instead of seeking opportunities for negotiations within all common interests, it wishes to impose the opinion of the stronger parties in the community. The refugee allocation mechanism is non-viable, unreal and violates the sovereignty of individual countries. We have serious grounds to fear a large influx of refugees into Poland when they are not only refugees, but often also economic migrants. However, I would like to appeal to the Polish Government to increase significantly the effort involved in helping these refugees elsewhere. Where there are conflict areas, countries that are close to conflict areas can be much better, more effective and cheaper to help them, much better for refugees themselves. We're doing a lot, too little. If in our country the solidarity has grown, which has also changed in a significant way the face of this world, let us now show this solidarity at a higher level, regardless of others, without looking at Europe or others to the end. Let us show our solidarity, because we too must show how it should work here. I therefore call once again on the government to increase this effort repeatedly and thus to show others how it should be done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u322	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u323	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about a case that directly relates to refugees, a Turkish case that is very difficult to deal with. Turkey has become such a buffer for the influx of immigrants into Europe. A number of commitments have been made by the European Union with regard to Turkey's aid. These commitments were far-reaching on the part of the European Union, such as the abolition of visas, the adoption of visas into the European Union. I had the opportunity to meet with President Erdogan of Turkey a month ago, with the participation of Marshal Kuchciński, and he asked us directly: When will Poland force the European Union to abolish visas for the Turks? Will there be further negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union? You have a great man there - he said - Tusk, who can do anything. It may sound a little sarcastic, but watching what's going on, this blackmail, it's blackmailing the President of Turkey towards Europe, it looks dangerous. I'm not talking about Tusk, I'm talking about the threat he's making right now, because he's saying he's gonna let refugees into Europe. That is why I wanted to ask about the government's position, what is the government's position, because this situation is beginning to be very tense and uninteresting in the European Union as regards these issues, about those commitments to Turkey which have been made by the European Union. I know they're hard. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To be fulfilled and probably not to be fulfilled, just the question of what to do next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u324	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In the European Union, the issue of compulsory allocation of migrants to individual countries of the European Union is again being addressed. Some officials of the European Commission say clearly that they will not support the EU budget if the Member States do not accept the refugees allocated to them. Such voices, of course, are unacceptable. Poland, as I was talking about, helps migrants, among others. Financially. But my point is that the people of our country get to know all the activities that Poland is doing for refugees. At this point, I would ask - and I ask this question - to approximate all these actions. Let me add that there are a lot of these activities, among others. helping to protect the external borders of certain European Union countries, but this is very little to be said about, including in countries such as Slovenia, Hungary or Bulgaria, and this should be more noticeable. Among other things, we have talked about this many times at the Summit of the Central European Initiative, but not all the countries of the European Union have reached this. So that I would ask that this information be presented again not only to our society, but to advertise it even more, e.g. through the media of the countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u326	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the vast majority, I hope, of the Polish parliament, even those who react so allergicly to the Polish government, expresses strong support for the proposed content of the resolution opposing the imposition by the European Union of a mechanism for the allocation of refugees and financial solidarity, i.e. in the practice of a huge racket. Some had to see it better late than never. Several months ago, as an ordinary citizen, I was terrified to see the Polish government begin, who agreed to allocate the first tranche of immigrants in Poland, while excluding myself from the front opposition to this idea represented by the Visegrad Group countries. From the suicidal policy of the European Union for Christian Europe to receive immigrants from Africa and the Middle East and their intention to deploy them in many countries, including Poland, there must be a retreat and it seems that this is slowly not only happening to the societies of individual countries - some have already tasted it - but also prominent politicians. An example: Jean-Claude Juncker, who announced that the distribution of immigrants must be mandatory, has recently started to support the demand for flexible solidarity. My question is: How does the government assess the possibility of reviewing the European Union's policy on refugees? I am particularly referring to the effective blocking of their influx. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u328	Thank you. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to correct the various inaccuracies that have occurred here. Firstly, this regulation has its basis in the Treaty of Lisbon, in Article. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 2, which says that in the event of a sudden influx of refugees into one country, the Commission comes to the Council with proposals for measures that could be applied to relieve countries that have encountered this sudden influx. Secondly, it is not any number of refugees, but it is clearly said that it is, if it exceeds a certain capacity of each country, and it is calculated on the basis of the population and GDP, and if this number of incoming refugees exceeds 50% that fixed amount. Thirdly, we are talking here about refugees who are already in Europe, not those who are still outside Europe and who obviously need to be helped, and it is good that we are also involved and helping them, and we are trying to send humanitarian aid, but also other countries, not only Poland is doing it. Fourthly, let's not say that these are economic refugees, because they certainly are among them, but there is war, cities are destroyed, there are dramatic situations when mothers load their children across the Mediterranean because they don't believe that these children can survive where they are now and send them into the unknown to Europe. The number of refugees already in Europe, please countries, is less than 1% the population of Europe. In order for the richest region of the world not to accept 0.5% of the population and manage it somehow, it is horribly, completely incomprehensible at all. Finally, I wanted to ask the government how the government was going to respond to the appeal of the Churches - what was said here - that each parish should receive one family. There are appeals of the Polish Episcopate, there is an appeal of the World Council of Churches. How does the government intend to respond to these appeals? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are we going to participate in the reception of refugees, or are we not going to accept any refugees at all? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u330	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr.Jakub Skiba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u331	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to comment on these questions and comments which were expressed during today's discussion. Firstly, I must stress very strongly - these were questions or comments by Mrs Hibner and Mrs Golbik on the alleged absence of a proposal to address migration - that this is not true. The Polish Government consistently and constantly repeats and defends the proposal, which is that the solution to the migration crisis depends primarily on taking decisive action on the spot where this conflict arises. Of course, aside from the issue of military solutions, it is very important to provide effective development and humanitarian assistance in the conflict area. And that's point one. The second point of this solution is also the effective protection of the external borders of Europe, to which all Member States are bound by European law, the Dublin Regulation, the whole Schengen system, and in this respect the Polish government is calling and actively working to protect European borders. The collapse of the European border protection system was one of the causes of the migration crisis in question. It is precisely the absence of the consequences of certain European countries in maintaining this system that is the cause of the state we have today. Finally, the Polish government not only speaks, not only declares, but actively participates in solving this problem. Mr Szynkowski a.k.a. Sok mentioned financial commitment and I would like to support it with figures. They indicate that 41 million zlotys have already been allocated and are also planned to implement the agreement with Turkey within 3 years, actually 4 years, 2016,2019, the amount of 251 million zlotys. These are, ladies and gentlemen, serious sums. So that it's not absolutely true that the government isn't doing anything. On the contrary, the government has chosen one specific method for resolving this conflict and is consistent in this respect. Nor is it true that the government is isolated and does not have very intense foreign contacts with other Member States. An example is the very successful meeting of the internal affairs ministers of many Member States of the European Union in Warsaw, which took place in the twenty-second. It was on the sidelines of the Visegrad Group meeting. The Visegrad Group adopted a very consistent declaration on this issue, and the Home Affairs Ministers participated in this meeting, among others. Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Slovenia and Bulgaria. This is just one example of very intense contacts that we are continuing on this issue. As regards the very important issue of the Turkish Agreement, as a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, I certainly do not have the powers that a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would have to give a meaningful answer to this question. All I can say is that, of course, Poland supports this agreement as much as possible and is in favour of it being implemented. Each point of this agreement, of course, raises many different problems. Also the issue of visa waiver. On the one hand, This is a matter of Turkey's compliance with the democratic rules, as we know there are problems. On the other hand, this visa waiver can also generate the problem of the influx of a large number, say, of economic migrants from Turkey itself. Europe therefore has major problems with this. But here there are no fluctuations from the Polish government. We are a participant in this agreement and, of course, we declare its implementation. As regards Mr Goloyuch's questions, I have already pointed to these actions by the government. Of course, with regard to these new proposals introducing a permanent allocation mechanism, I confirm this position, which is clearly negative, and we are constantly presenting this position in the European Commission. As for the question about the possibility of revising the European Union's policy, this is obviously not an easy question. The government is doing everything it can to make such a revision according to the basic lines and directions that I had previously had the opportunity to quote here. Nevertheless, many countries which are directly interested for various reasons in maintaining this pathological state of affairs continue to support this solution, and these are influential, strong, rich states, so our position is certainly not easy. But that doesn't mean we can abandon our goals. Finally, the question asked by Mr Święcicki is how the government intends to respond to the appeal of the Churches. Indeed, such calls for resettlement are being made and addressed to the government. This is not an easy problem, ma'am, because the previous practice with such activities, actions undertaken by the Church not only in Poland, but also in other countries, whether through some foundations or associations associated with the Churches has not produced positive results. The biggest problem is that these refugees, even declaring their arrival in a given country using these different tools and roads, simply do not want to be present in certain countries, which they believe do not offer sufficient social offers. It is simply their goal to use these methods to get to the wealthy countries of Western Europe, the United States, Canada, Australia. Such was the example of the Czech Republic, such was the example of Slovakia, such was the example of the action carried out in Poland by the Esther Foundation. Only a few were left with this group, which was brought to Poland. Therefore, this is a problem that compromises the whole solution. We just have to be honest and look in the eye. So without clearly declaring a negative relationship here, we simply point to problems. Any action that's being taken should end in some sort of success. Meanwhile, the motivations of those who want to come, at least in the beginning, are generally different from those declared. Thank you very much. I think these are all the questions that have been asked. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u332	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Szymon Szynkowski, a.k.a. Sęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u333	Thank you very much, Marshal. The Minister pointed out in very detail the tasks which are undertaken within the framework of the taking up of joint and several responsibility by the Polish government, which I wanted to stress, because this word is unfortunately very unfairly used to attack the Polish government. The Polish government is solidarity in resolving the migration crisis, only has a clear idea of how this crisis should be resolved, and consistently follows this concept. The adoption of a corrective mechanism for relocation of refugees would not only be dangerous for Poland from the point of view of removing sovereignty, but - and equally important - would not solve the migration crisis in any way, and this is also an important point. Those who claim that today the adoption of such a mechanism could help to resolve the migration crisis, let them look at the previous attempt of this kind, at the exceptionally unfortunate and breaking solidarity of the Visegrad Group on this matter. In September 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) Poland has accepted the assignment of a group of refugees. This decision is made today in a few percent. Did this solve migratory problems in any way? This shows how happy it is to propose this corrective mechanism for refugees. And I regret that what the Minister has said does not really go to some of the Members of the opposition, who once again repeat at second reading the arguments that there is no proper government action in response to the migration crisis. There are very harsh statements that there is no foreign policy in this area, extremely unfair because the government is showing exceptional activity here. These Members are leaving, and today they will probably not really know what the government's actions are about because they have gone out and no longer listened to the Minister's reply. But it is worth it for those of you who are listening to our debate, or those of you who are listening to this debate online, to hear these few words of summary on my part, because the Minister has put it in such detail that perhaps these detailed amounts have not yet allowed for a full review of the situation, and these actions are really a lot. It is worth mentioning once again what is the concept of government just in response to the migration crisis. Well, the idea of government is to solve problems not here on the spot, because they can't be solved here, but there. It is about helping there, in third countries, conflict countries and countries neighbouring conflict countries, to strengthen the European Border and Coast Guard. On average, 60 border guards supported Frontex in Greece, Bulgaria and Romania. The Foreigners' Office has since February posted, please note, 48 support missions, also posted its employees to Italy, Greece, to help resolve these problems at the borders. There is support for Europol's Police and Border Guard to assist with the so-called. secondary controls. Poland will delegate police officers and Border Guards to Europol for the next three years. Finally, there is migration cooperation with third countries and solidarity between Poland and the European External Investment Plan. Today, the idea is that Poland is isolated in Europe, in the European Union and is not involved in EU action. How do we defend ourselves against the fact that Poland participates in a trust fund aimed at raising investment in those countries where today we have a crisis, in Syria, in Africa? Poland enters Syria with €3 million, from over €1 million to Africa, and Lebanon and Jordan with €2.4 million. Ladies and gentlemen, these tasks, which Poland really does, could be exchanged. Poland, like other Member States, is jointly and severally involved in the EU's refugee aid instrument in Turkey, because that was also the subject of the question. Between 2016 and 2019, EUR 57 million will be involved. We are actively involved in the discussion on the European asylum system, but we are clearly presenting our point of view there. Such a clear point of view is also this resolution, the content of this resolution, which is intended to strengthen this extremely active policy of the Polish government. Finally, we have a migration policy of the Polish government, because it can be said that unfortunately until November 2015 it was passive. Today, these are ideas. Solidarically, we try these ideas to get involved in solving this difficult problem. It's worth it for the Sejm to back them up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u334	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 42 hours 17 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 38 and 39 of the agenda: 38. First reading of the government draft law on the rules for the management of state property (Print No 1053). 39. First reading of the government draft law Provisions introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property (Print No 1054). I ask the Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, Henryk Kowalczyk, to present the justification for the draft laws contained in 1053 and 1054 prints.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the draft laws: the Law on the Rules of State Property Management and the Law on the Law on the Rules of Government Property Management. This is another implementation of our electoral declarations. Since 1 January, we have eliminated the Ministry of Treasury. This is in line with previous announcements both in the election campaign and the announcement resulting from the exposé by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. However, we do not, of course, dispose of the wealth of the State Treasury. The role of such a specific coordinator of ownership policy will be played by the President of the Council of Ministers. The liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury is mainly due to the fact that we are leaving completely from privatisation processes. This ministry in its history was first established as the Ministry of Property Transformation treated as the Ministry of Privatization. Since it is not our job to privatise, to privatise the state's assets further, it is to multiply and take care of this property, so this ministry, which served as a privatization, has actually exhausted its capabilities and functions. Therefore, it is time for this ministry to be wound up. The proposed laws, both the Law on the Management of State Property and the Introductory Provisions, introduce a new formula for taking care of the State Treasury's assets. First of all, the most important provision of this law is ownership over companies of the State Treasury. It will be carried out by the President of the Council of Ministers, not directly, of course, but through a legal delegation - a regulation of the Council of Ministers delegates this management to individual industry ministers. Of course, individual industry ministers will be on the basis of a resolution of the Council of Ministers, i.e. such a delegation by the Prime Minister, to manage companies of the Treasury which will be in their field of interest. Besides, this process is already taking place this year, but it is only a process under the authority of the Minister of Treasury issued to individual industry ministers - such a package of energy companies is, among others. managed by the Minister of Energy. Another element of this law is the ordering and introduction of transparent staff policies into supervisory authorities and management bodies. Such a element of a transparent HR policy will be the creation of a Company Council with the participation of the State Treasury. The Council will be an advisory body providing comprehensive and professional support to the head of government in terms of coordination of ownership supervision, but also its extremely important task will be to evaluate candidates for corporate bodies with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal entities. We want delegated or selected persons to meet the highest quality standards. This is what this is about - raising the standards of ownership supervision when it comes to selection of staff. The Act also provides for a precise indication of the administrative bodies which will administer individual items of State property. It is also extremely important, you can say, to restore, change the principle and model of the disposal of shares and shares of the State Treasury. In general, there is a waiver of direct privatisation, while there are still a number of companies in which the State Treasury has little, it can be said, traces of shares. Therefore, these shares will be disposed of, but we want to return to the principle that this will be by virtue of a resolution of the Council of Ministers. This principle has worked for many years. Another element of such a comprehensive and orderly supervisory system will be the separation of a group of companies of major importance for the state economy. These are the most important, important companies - there will be dozens of them - in which the exercise of the powers of the State Treasury will be subject to special supervision by the Prime Minister, i.e. such a list of companies of importance for the state economy. The most important objective of managing the assets of the State Treasury and the expected result will be the long-term increase in the value of the national assets by the growth of the assets of individual companies with the participation of the State Treasury. The liquidation process of the Ministry of Treasury and the Law on Introductory Provisions provide for individual steps leading to the liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury. It is clear that such the most important element is the liquidation of the department itself: the Treasury, i.e. the rewrite and revision of many provisions in the Introductory Act, where the words of the State Treasury Minister and others will be replaced accordingly by other provisions. The liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury will also result in significant savings in administration. Of course, we provide for supervision, which on the one hand will be coordinated by the President of the Council of Ministers and, on the other hand, will be carried out, as has been the case so far, on the principles of delegation by individual Ministry Ministers, but the liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury itself will result in a significant reduction in administration and bureaucracy. We estimate that this can bring about PLN 100 million per year, so on a scale of 10 years, as it is defined, the amount, the financial impact of introducing individual laws is about PLN 1 billion. I think that from this point of view it is also worth doing this to show in an important way that we are limiting the administration and, from what is unnecessary and unnecessary, we are resigning. These are the most important provisions and the most important principles that we propose in the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, as well as in the Law introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u336	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the draft law on the rules for the management of state property with draft implementing acts from print no. 1053. The bill is a document developed in the Ministry of the Treasury as a set of rules for modern State supervision of the State Treasury's assets, which is to apply after the liquidation of that Ministry. The draft law is intended to improve the quality of the management of state property, including the quality of ownership supervision, through a thorough change in the functioning of the temporary model, with its very numerous structural defects. The adoption of the presented project is intended to result in a long-term increase in the value of national assets, including companies with the participation of the State Treasury, which includes instruments that significantly strengthen ownership supervision due to the higher standards of this supervision in terms of both selection of staff and expectations of those who will represent the State Treasury in the future. According to the projectors, the authorities representing the Treasury companies will be required to act strictly on market and ownership principles, corresponding to the actual level of control of the entity, based on ownership rights. The main, most important assumption of the new system for the management of state property is, among others. centralising the powers to coordinate this property in the Council of Ministers. Individual companies will be placed under the management of the relevant ministers, which is detailed in the relevant legislation and implementing acts of the law. The decision, where the above mentioned companies will be taken, will be the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, headed by the President of the Council of Ministers. And it will be the President of the Council of Ministers who will draw up a list of companies of importance for the country, and will be the authority exercising all rights in the shares and shares of these companies. This concentrated supervision of state-owned companies is, it seems, the best solution, has the opinion of a very effective solution. I would like to say that the Law and Justice Club supports all the provisions of the proposed law from the sejm print no. 1053 and recommends its adoption in the Polish Sejm. Since there is still an additional draft on the provisions implementing this law, I would therefore like to give the floor to the Member who will present his position on this next law. Yeah, well, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u338	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u339	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law Rules introducing the Law on the Principles of State Property Management, print No. 1054. High Izbo! The law itself has 132 articles. I would like to draw attention to its justification, which accurately explains the need for specific articles to be introduced, up to the article. 94, i.e. transitional and adaptation provisions. They are described individually, i.e. justifications and further justifications are comprehensively justified. The provisions introducing the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property are another necessary element of a thorough reconstruction of the model of exercising the powers of the Treasury in property relations, and also contain the necessary amendments to other laws, which are a consequence of the introduction of a new system for the management of property. The main assumptions of the new system, which translate into the proposed changes, require: the abolition of the State Treasury department and, consistently, the deletion or transfer to other authorities of the powers of the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters, the liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury, the granting to the President of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of competence to exercise rights in shares and shares of the State Treasury, the definition of a new model for the disposal of shares and shares of the State Treasury and the maintenance of existing arrangements with regard to the disposal of shares and shares by local government units, the significant correction of the State Treasury property management mechanism, the harmonisation of the rules for obtaining approval by state legal entities for the disposal of fixed assets, the abolition of state-owned special-purpose funds, including the Fund for the Restructuring of Entrepreneurs, the Fund for Science and Technology, as well as the State Treasury Fund, and the amendment of the rules for the distribution of proceeds arising from the disposal of shares or shares belonging to the State Treasury. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the bill be referred to the relevant committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u340	Thank you very much, sir, and thank you for your time. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u341	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the Minister made it a little easier for me because he said clearly that the Ministry of the Treasury is being liquidated because you do not intend to privatise the assets, especially organised in the form of shares and shares in the companies of the Treasury, because the privatisation process is over. In fact, for three years, we've been saying that a lot of privatisation is being extinguished, only leftovers are left, so it's not some kind of novelty. Minister, this is really the implementation of the electoral slogan. The Ministry of Treasury was not the Ministry of Privatization, because, as you know, in 2004 it was changed from the Ministry of Property Transformations to the Ministry of Treasury just. And I am sorry to say that the State, by referring to good practices in the exercise of ownership rights, by referring to the OECD guidelines on supervision in public undertakings, refers very selectively to them. Minister, there, among others. In Chapter 2, when referring to a State acting as owner, it is said that: The Government should develop and initiate a ownership policy which sets out the general objectives of state ownership, the role of the State in the corporate supervision of public undertakings and the way in which the ownership policy will be implemented. The government should not be involved in the day-to-day management of public undertakings. The exercise of ownership rights should be clearly defined in the structures of the state administration. Achieving this objective may facilitate the establishment of a coordination body or, more appropriate, centralisation of the ownership function. If the ownership function is not centralised, the minimum requirement is to establish a strong coordination body among different administrative units. That's what you're calling it. The establishment of this strong coordination entity is nominally because you are pointing to the President of the Council of Ministers. We know it's illusory functionally. Minister, you know that, and I know that. There was one Jackiewicz, there would be at least seven. Therefore, unfortunately, but it is difficult to resist the impression that you are eliminating the Ministry ideologically, for ideological reasons, the assumptions of the campaign, leading to a supervisory mess, which unfortunately we are experiencing, we have a measurable effect after the last 11 months of government by the state. Spółki Skarbu Państwa z WIG20 w indexie zł 39 billion zł. I just want to remind you that there was no crisis, there was no extraordinary economic event in the country or any economic typhoon outside our borders. In 2013-2015, however, the increase, the income from dividends and the increase in the value of companies of the State Treasury amounted to PLN 27 billion, only in 2 years when there was no economic economy as it is today. Unfortunately, we have a situation about which we can say that these things that we have been experiencing over the 11 months that we have also talked about in Parliamentary committees will only be preserved in this project. It's not like we're gonna go any further. Like three months ago, speaking of personalities... Because you're talking about the Board of Companies of the Treasury, you're talking about candidates when it comes to supervision. What are the effects of this surveillance today? You want to preserve it. Three months ago, the prominent Member of Law and Justice Hofman answered the following questions in one of the interviews concerning his personal recommendations in the companies of the State Treasury: Nothing like that happened, all personal decisions concerning the filling of companies of the State Treasury were made at the highest level at Nowogrodzka. There was no other possibility. I'm asking under this provision about the Treasury Company Council... If I were mean, I would ask if the headquarters of this counsel would be on Novgorodska. Minister! High Seym! Mr. Marshal! In the explanatory memorandum no. 1053 we read: In the opinion of the authors of the proposed law, the state - that is what you said - in the domain sphere should put the main emphasis on the efficient management of the property in order to build its sustainable value and in a responsible way create the foundation for building the constant value of Polish capital. How does this apply to the reality that we are dealing with? What are the listings of Polish companies, those listed on the stock exchange today, outside the JSW? What do they look like? They seem to have lost over 39 billion PLN, which unfortunately represents more than capitalization of the Polish bank PKO BP. In summing up these comments, I must address the High House, the marshal, and say that these projects do not address the fundamental issue, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. the definition of State ownership policy, which sets out the general objectives of state ownership, the role of the State in the corporate supervision of public undertakings and the way in which the ownership policy will be implemented. Two sentences, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u342	No, no, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u343	The proposed construction of a centre for the exercise of ownership rights by assigning... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u344	Thank you, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u345	...this property will be functionally illusory to the President of the Council of Ministers, because in fact these rights will be ceded into numerous ministers and representatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u346	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15 has the floor. Mr President, for all, time is equal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u347	The laws of the law are updating 90 laws, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u348	Sign up for questions, sir, and you will be able to continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u349	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u350	I turned you off because you were out of time. Time is equal for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u351	I want it in the transcript. Turn it on.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u352	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u353	Unfortunately, Minister, we must file a motion for rejection at first reading. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And rightly so. We're in favour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u354	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u355	Thank you. High Izbo! I don't need the five minutes given to our club, as the decisions that will have to be made here in connection with these proposals are quite simple. I also depart from the detailed discussion of these projects. The projects are very long. The introductory provisions change the law to a very broad extent and there is no point in discussing it at the moment. We need to move on to the real content of these new rules. Contrary to what the Minister was polite to say, these are not provisions on the liquidation of the Ministry of the Treasury. The fact that the Ministry of Treasury will be dissolved will be eliminated, we have already decided - I say: we decided as Sejm - at the beginning of this term. These rules allow, ensure the Petrification of the current system, let's just call it political spoil. This is nothing but to establish this applied unfortunately for some time - I mean not only this term - the principle that whoever acquires government power is gaining all the state assets that are intended to serve only and exclusively the benefits of the government, read: a given party, a given political option that prevails at a given moment. I use the word "rules," and I don't say "rules." That's not good. These proposals have one plus, that is, they clearly show who is responsible. And that's good. So we don't have to hide it behind some competitions, etc., trying to dissipate responsibility. Under the new rules, we know who decides what the fate of state assets is, and we know who is responsible for it. This is undoubtedly the plus that you are not running away from responsibility. However, this does not change the fact that this actual responsibility will affect all of us as citizens, because we will all pay for the fact that the wealth of the State Treasury, the wealth of the state will not serve social purposes, but will serve current political purposes. That's not what we're supposed to do. There was a proposal which, moreover, our group in their election campaign raised very clearly. We used to call it different, but let's call it competence here. It is possible to create an organ that will simply expose the whole political sphere. This will allow depoliticizing state assets by setting up a council that will decide not to make Miesievice, only specialists sit there and direct the state assets which are intended to serve precisely the purposes of the state as such and civil society. It is a matter of competence which, in a cross-party manner, would also decide on the directions of development of this property, which would determine the way in which it is supervised, above all, the persons who are to direct it. Such an authority would allow for real, fair management of state assets for the good of all of us, not for the sake of a particular party. I will not go into details here at the moment, but it is clear that sooner or later we will develop such an organ, as the state assets managed politically will shrink. He's been shrinking for years, in this term of office for a year. it has shrinked dramatically and there is no consolation here that this is simply due to the overall economic situation and the reduction in the market. The truth is that this property is shrinking because it is mismanaged because it is managed only politically and not economically. In this situation, we call for a committee of competence - we will present details in our legislative proposals - such a council which will guide the state's assets in order to protect the interests of citizens. On the other hand, these laws, because these are two laws, because they strengthen the management of the state property by individual political bodies, political parties, cannot gain our support. We will request that work on them be completed at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This law, I am talking about the draft law on the rules for the management of state property, as well as on the implementing rules, has three fundamental objectives. As I understand it, the first objective is to implement your announcement concerning the liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury. I would like to stress that, indeed, in recent years, the Ministry has dealt with privatisation to a much lesser extent, and more with ownership supervision and other tasks, among which, I would like to remind you, were also the issues of reprivatization or the issues of recording the State Treasury's assets. These tasks will have to go somewhere and these optimistic calculations by the Minister that we will save PLN 100 million a year, I fear, will not work out, because simply other people in other resorts will have to deal with the same issues. The second point, as you said, is the increase in the value of the national assets, i.e. those companies, state legal persons or other assets held by our state. The latest data from the capital market does not confirm that this asset can be multiplied, so far we do not have any great achievements in this regard. Finally, the third issue concerns the supervision of this property. I am afraid that these regulations perpetuate this way of supervision, which is mainly implemented by political nominates, unfortunately I do not expect any significant changes in this area. A few specific comments on this project, which I would like to present. There is an assumption of going away from privatisation, and commercialisation will no longer be carried out by the Minister of Treasury - the Minister will not - but also not by the Prime Minister, the founding bodies will do so, we will no longer have direct privatisation, i.e. the sale of companies, while the process of disposal of shares and shares will take place with the approval of the Council of Ministers. Experience so far has been such that this process has lasted for a very long time. I'm afraid, Minister, that you can't sell even the leftovers that sometimes have to be sold, because there are situations where the costs of supervision of the rest exceed any economic effects that the Treasury could achieve by having shares or shares. So this should be done, but this procedure for obtaining the approval of the Council of Ministers is long-lasting. A matter of advice, which will include: has been consulted by the supervisory authorities. This advice, Minister, will unfortunately be political, because it will be nominated in full by the Prime Minister, and so I do not expect any decisive effects here, from a political nomination. We will be proposing a pluralistic advice that could actually give an opinion on the competence of the candidates, and not just, in colloquially speaking, tap them - I fear that's how it's going to be - these candidates. We are eliminating the special funds created by the Minister of State Treasury, although a fund such as the Polish Science and Technology Fund could significantly strengthen, modernise the Polish economy. That's not gonna be the fund anymore. New examinations for candidates for members of supervisory boards shall be introduced. I understand that so far exams will also be honored. In my opinion, there is a dispersal of supervision and this will not be properly coordinated. I'm gonna save some more time for my friend. [[Oh, how much!]] [[This is a joke.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u358	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's all the time I've got, 25 seconds, so unfortunately I'm not going to quote what I was going to say, but I'm going to say one thing: the best cure for a disease that's called and defined as a Bear's disease is privatisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Oh, he left it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u360	Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is still time, and I have declared my resignation if he has something good to say, because I will not go into the details of this law - she, as the predecessors have already said, is a bad law. Let's start over. We have one sitting left by the end of the year and we are now leaving with the bill. Last summer we saw these blue file billings, so how come there was no time to discuss it calmly? How can such a serious law have such economic, financial consequences for the state, for our economy in this way? That's the first reason. Secondly, this is a bad bill. She leads on the one hand to centralization, because decisions will be taken centrally, because she appoints the Prime Minister, on the other hand distracts management. There will be no coordination, because if we divide this property into individual ministries, it will be difficult and there will be no coordination. So there's gonna be a split personality. On the one hand, what is observed in many cases - PiS aims to centralise and on the other hand there is no such coordination. On the subject of the Treasury companies, you can see what their financial situation is today, and you can see that PiS cannot handle the management of the Treasury's assets. Anyway, it was visible. I think that as a result of what happened, you had to cancel the minister because he couldn't handle it, because the human and economic consequences were grieving. Already at that time it was possible to decide to present these projects. I didn't hear the end of the Platform Club here because the microphones were off. I don't know if they applied for rejection at first reading or not. [[We put it together.]] As a club of the Polish People's Party, we cannot agree to such a procession and to a law which does not meet the expectations mentioned in the assumptions, and the content of the act is completely different. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I am applying for the rejection of both projects, because the second is the consequence of the first, i.e. from prints 1053 and 1054. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u362	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Gains, Frees and Solidarni have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law on the rules for the management of state property and the Government's draft law on the introduction of the Law on the rules for the management of state property, 1053 and 1054 prints. As we can read in the explanatory memorandum, the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property aims to improve the quality of the management of state property, including ownership supervision, by changing the functioning of the current model with significant structural defects. One of the main drawbacks of the current system is the exercise of rights in relation to State property, including shares belonging to the Treasury and public legal persons, by a large number of bodies and entities without organised coordination of state property management policy at the level of the Council of Ministers. It should be noted that issues related to the state wealth management were included not only in the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act, but also in more than 90 other laws and regulations, which made it difficult to develop a uniform, coherent approach to the State Treasury's ownership policy. In our view, therefore, it is important to appreciate the draft laws in question, as they contain a comprehensive regulation on the management of state property, formulated in a uniform and orderly manner. In terms of quality and systemic completeness of legislation, this is certainly a step in the right direction, albeit leaving a certain area as necessary for more precise regulation. As is usually the case with such extensive projects, and especially due to significant institutional changes, such as the liquidation of the Ministry of the Treasury, there are doubts, comments which should be discussed in substance during the work on the law in the parliamentary committees. I'll mention the two most important things in my assessment. First, Chapter 4 of the Law on State Property Management provides for the creation of a Company Council with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal persons. The Council is to be a consultative body providing comprehensive and professional support to the head of government when it comes to coordinating ownership supervision. In addition to the criteria laid down for members of supervisory boards, there are no additional requirements which would guarantee the professionalism and experience of the members of the board. It is difficult to regard as such the vague, discretionary term: • it has the knowledge, skills and experience appropriate to perform its duties in the Council and to carry out its duties, and gives the guarantee of the proper performance of those duties. It must not be allowed, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to have incompetent persons in the body advising the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland on such an important matter as ownership control over the state estate. It is necessary to apply higher minimum criteria in this case, e.g. the criterion of 5 years of experience in working on a specific job or in performing a specific function in this area or other more specific criteria. Secondly, the content of the Act does not indicate whether the government will complete the privatisation processes started or whether the so-called sales will take place. the remaining shares completely redundant for the State Treasury, because - as Dr. Grażyna Majcher-Magdziak, Minister for Treasury Companies and privatisation in the so-called. the business shadow office of the Business Centre Club, a member of the Social Dialogue Council, was not planned to create any specialised entity or agency that would assume the task of disposing of these assets from the liquidation of the Ministry of Treasury. While the procedure for the sale of shares of state-owned companies is foreseen, it has been more bureaucratic than before and for any such transaction it is necessary to obtain the approval of the Council of Ministers. This may make it more difficult to manage state assets, because in the hands of various ministries of industry that carry out ownership functions outside large-scale, economically important companies, there will be insignificant holdings of shares that will have to be taken care of, and this needs to be increased costs. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Circle of Free and Solidarni Members requests that both draft laws be directed to further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u364	Thank you. [[You guys would have accepted right away.]] [[I'd love to hear what you have to say from the speaker.]] Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to speak, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The essence of good ownership supervision of state-owned companies is to create conditions in which individual companies will have to behave as if they had private owners and operate in a market environment. This requires among others. separation of ownership supervision from regulation and other public tasks. The experience gained so far from the fragmentation of supervision between the various economic resorts is fatal. Over the last month, the stock valuation of four energy companies decreased by more than PLN 3 billion. Today it is estimated at approx. 29 billion zlotys, with a maximum of 80 billion zlotys. The debt of these companies is growing at an alarming rate. On the other hand, the Minister for Maritime Affairs does not hide his intention to finance investments improving the navigability of rivers from seaport money. Today's regulation centralizes personnel policy, but I do not see in it a mechanism which forces effective management of state property distributed among the successors of the Polish People's Republic's Unions. So I ask: Are you aware that we are going backwards instead of moving forwards? And the question to the Minister: When will I get a written answer to the questions I asked you at the meeting of the Treasury Committee? The Minister made such a promise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u366	Thank you. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u367	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The justification of the draft law in this section contains a number of contradictions. As one of the most important reasons for establishing new rules for the management of state property, the Prime Minister gives an increase in the quality of human resources selection in order to strengthen ownership supervision. Would that mean that she is not satisfied with the previous positions in the Treasury companies, and that the intensive exchange has been carried out over the last 12 months, perhaps the most intensely in the history of our country? [[You guys were faster.]] Next, the prime minister is polite to compliment the project for the savings of PLN 100 million. Cleverly, however, it avoids identifying the sources of these savings. Didn't she mean wholesale layoffs and family dramas resulting from this? The adoption of the project will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening the prime minister's position. This one will have the power to exercise the rights of the shares and shares of the State Treasury, the possibility of politically filling members of the Company Council and an unlimited view of each type of document. Is it true that the centralisation of the powers in the area of privatisation policy, about which Mr Jarosław Kaczyński has been passionately discussing and discussing, announces his imminent arrival at the office of the President of the Council of Ministers, or is it an expression of the free working power of Prime Minister Szydło and waiting to be filled with other candidates for office? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Smart, you know, but what precision.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u368	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would ask you to answer three specific questions. The first relates to the rest mentioned above. Indeed, it is so called. the normal procedure, i.e. through a resolution of the Council of Ministers, will be time-consuming and, as the market experience shows, it will be difficult to carry out such transactions. Do you foresee any action in this regard? Second line. I have to say, I'm a little surprised. As far as companies of particular importance are concerned, it is envisaged that they may be included in that list. also real estate companies or food manufacturers. What is the justification for such activities? Finally, the third point is very important. The opinion of the Company Board is mandatory for supervisory authorities, but for management authorities it is optional. What is dictated by such a provision, such regulation? If I have some time left, I'll ask you about the Reprivatization Fund. As a rule, targeted funds are being liquidated, and this one remains, as I understand it. And please say: What is the purpose of funding from the Reprivatisation Fund, which should focus on reprivatisation issues, [[♪ The bell ♪]] acquisition of shares and shares of the State Treasury? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u370	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the article. 21, in fact, a suggestion. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 21th Law on the Management of State Property, in addition, of course, to the guidelines on the competence of persons who are members of the Boards of Boards of State Treasury companies, you also point to the negative characteristics of persons, i.e. those who will disqualify them as possibly sitting on boards. Among these people are among others. persons who are social assistants of Members, staff members of the parliamentary offices. But, Minister, don't you think it would also be appropriate to include Members on this list in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland? In this term of office of the Sejm we had to deal with worse situations, when directly from the benches of the Sejm three Members passed to the boards of companies of the Treasury... [[They were not messengers.]] ...directly from the benches. That's not why the voters... This is not what individual Members and voters agreed to do. It's a suggestion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u372	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! Minister! What is the opinion on this project by Prime Minister Morawiecki? I have the overwhelming impression that inside the PiS a lot of people are working on a plan for responsible development to remain a collection of slides. I would be very grateful if you would answer that question, because the question is serious, there's a little bit of malice in it, but it's serious. The next issue is this curian Council for the European Union. companies with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal persons. [[It's your idea.]] There is no doubt that you have a problem with how to control Misiewicz. One PiS activist in Opole during the radio program, talking about how pure and crystal the PiS is, said that he and Misiewicz threw 40 of his people out of the companies. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what he said - 40 of his men. Well, that's the problem, you gotta figure it out. And one last question, because my role is to take care of the interests of the local government. Up to now, the seniors with the participation of the voivodships managed the property of the State Treasury, receiving some gratifications, 25%, which gave quite significant money - from several hundred thousand to several million on the scale of Opole voivodship, small. Will this system be maintained because it is particularly important for the presidents? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As you know, you care about city presidents, especially Opole. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u374	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u375	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have no delusions that, although the Treasury Ministry is being erased, certain rules for selecting people to companies of the Treasury remain the same - they will be the nominees of the PiS. However, what worries us is that when we look at the stock market, we look at the values of these companies, it indicates that you have picked the wrong people, because the results are tragic. We have no illusions that this will continue to work, because the fact that there is a jump to the posts and to the stools is what we all see. It's not a new thing, so I have to say it's happened before, but I'm wondering one thing, and I have a question for the Minister who came up with it, because I honestly admit it surprised me. The state uses the money from the reprivatization fund to nationalise Polish companies. To be honest, it's a very interesting design, and I'm impressed with the idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u377	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about renationalization, because it's very common in the PiS program. You're talking a lot about how you're gonna get your assets back, and on the other hand, we can see that you can't manage what's right now. But my question is going in a different direction. Do you have any more specific ideas? Because what is happening today in the PZU, which is to buy out the bank, translates directly into the situation of our residents. Let's look at how insurance rates have increased today, it's a tragedy, and it involves, as everyone can see, the collection of funds by PZU to have a bank buy-out. Is this a good solution, and will this renationalization serve our country's economic growth, development? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's not the bill.]] [[I know it's not the bill, but it's about wealth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u378	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, we are proceding a very important legal act, because it concerns property owned by all Poles, and the reading of these draft legal acts seems as if it were written by at least two people who do not necessarily have the same interests. There is no time, I think, in the course of, as she continues to process, we will pay attention to various issues. Now two issues of a general nature. In 2006, you adopted the law, amending the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act, which indicated that state-owned companies were about to lose their existence, and you set a deadline there - 6 months. Today, reading this proposed act proves that the state-owned company still exists. Any consequence? Question two. I am, of course, aware that the Prime Minister has taken over all the entities in which you hold shares, [[Applause]] Whether he is involved in capital in one way or another is very difficult. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 8 we also mention the possibility of delegation at the level of the state legal person. It's all about handing over. Isn't this handover really a privatisation? And if there's something else and there's something else going on, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a question. A public legal person is an artificial creation. How will this work be done? How will someone who will be posted be accounted for with those activities that have been accomplished? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u380	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property creates a uniform system approach in the management of the property of companies with the participation of the State Treasury, but also so-called. State-owned legal persons. The latter include a whole range of entities, a whole range of institutions, including among others. Polish Academy of Sciences, scientific units, public universities, research institutes. In relation to the latter, the rights and obligations of the State relating to the possible commercialisation of individuals, the liquidation of individuals and the management of their property are quite obvious. This law also creates requirements for candidates for members of supervisory authorities and management bodies of companies, but also for state-owned legal persons. To this end, a Council for the Environment will be set up. companies with the participation of the State Treasury and state legal persons. My question concerns some of the latter institutions. Of course, there are no supervisory boards in the research institutes mentioned as an example, but whether the law applies in the case of management bodies or directors, e.g. for the opinion of the candidate by the council, does this absolutely not include such entities? Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u382	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u383	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out such suggestions as to the fact that the Law and Justice are addressed to the governing bodies of the Treasury companies by persons who are Members of the current term of office of the Sejm. That is not true. On the other hand, he may direct Members from his previous term of office there. There's nothing wrong with that. But I would therefore like to ask the question: Are the criteria for selecting candidates to manage companies changed in relation to the 1996 laws governing ownership supervision? And whether it's art. 21, which refers to the requirements for candidates to management bodies, solves all problems related to the relevant personal policy, which is about not to raise ethical controversy? Will the standards relating to the selection of candidates for boards and supervisory boards rise after the adoption of this new project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u384	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! It's a good thing your marshal is because you've treated me very rigorously with the marshal you happily changed. I would like to inform you, for the record, that Max Kraczkowski was a member of this term of office... [[He filed a ticket.]] ... Andrzej Jaworski was a member of this term as well as Wojciech Jasiński was a member of this term. [[They've all filed a ticket.]] But they were Members of this term, not the previous one. Minister, as I said, you, I mean, not you, just the applicant, the government, is referring to these good OECD practices. The exercise of ownership rights should be clearly defined within the structures of the state administration. Achieving this objective may facilitate the establishment of a coordination body or, more appropriate, centralisation of the ownership function. If the ownership function is not centralised, the minimum requirement is to establish a strong coordinating entity among the different administrative units. You're going with it minimalistically, relying on this good practice or this recommendation. That is why I am talking about the ideological liquidation of the Ministry of the Treasury, that all that is contained in the OECD recommendations you are referring to is an MSP. There are standards, you should have expanded. You can call it something else, the institution of the flourishing estate of the State Treasury etc. Decentralization causes chaos that you will now preserve. And plus, if you're referring to the fact that, to put it mildly... [[But you're all for the distraction.]] ...100 million savings per year, I don't know who calculated it, since the 2016 MSP budget is 65 million. Well, that's the same thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We can say that if there are 1 billion savings for 10 years, it will be 2 billion for 20 years. Minister, please answer the question if that's the case. We've left you documents at the MSP about the professionalization of management, the separation of strategic companies, the coordination of programmes towards strategic projects worth 174 billion, the largest construction site, powerful investments in energy. Don't ruin it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u386	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u387	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions I'd like you to answer. Namely, you provide there a wide range of requirements for candidates to the authorities of the Treasury companies. I wanted to know if there would be a verification of all the previous nominations in the Treasury companies, including those companies that are subject to the Ministry of National Defence. Is such verification envisaged? In addition, you introduce such a deadline for companies of significant importance for the state economy, and there are 23 sectors mentioned. Indeed there are also food industries, and mines, and mills and various services, there are a lot of things taken into account there. Isn't that just too broad for you? Also important for the state economy is the mass of private enterprises, I do not know, General Motors or Ford or any other. There are large companies that are important for the economy of the state, but do not have to be companies of the Treasury or entities so that the State is empowered to nationalise or manage them in some way. But shouldn't there be more precise criteria for when something can be considered as such? Or is this term misconstrued as essential to the economy of the state? Maybe there's some other way to put it, change it? I would ask you to answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u388	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u389	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief question, Minister, about these calculations concerning savings estimated at PLN 100 million per year and in the perspective of 10 years at PLN 1 billion. From the data that are also contained in the explanatory memorandum, it appears that the factor that allows them to be done is, among other things, a factor. the lack of expenditure on privatisation costs of the liquidated Treasury Fund, which averaged PLN 56 million, part of the personnel costs, part of the investment expenditure, including current expenditure of the Ministry of Treasury or expenditure on fees and taxes from Section 750. I would ask you to elaborate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u390	Thank you very much. And the last question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u391	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a quick question. Do the drafters of the new law realise that some of their solutions may pose a problem, as they establish a specific corporate law for companies of the Treasury and, as such, they may remove part of their responsibility from the boards of individual companies. In other words, we water down responsibility, and that's dangerous. Therefore, my question is this: Has this been carefully thought out, or do you provide for the possibility of reviewing certain provisions, so as not to create a specific special law for companies of the Treasury, especially those which would contribute to the lack of responsibility of supervisory authorities of these companies, i.e. management boards and supervisory boards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u392	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u393	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the statements and questions, I would like to point out one thing: indeed, the Civic Platform is implementing the slogan of the total opposition, so it rejects the law which regulates the management of the property of the State Treasury, which limits bureaucracy. Therefore, it is possible to congratulate the consequences in implementing the password: total opposition. We will vote against everything that the Law and Justice are doing, because the most painful thing is that the Law and Justice are fulfilling their declarations and from the election campaign and from the exposé. I understand it's very painful. Yeah, it's been going on all year, so I'm not surprised at anything. Now, on the other hand, I will address questions about specific matters. When it comes to the issue of personalities, competence board, etc., it is, of course, possible to make additional requirements, while it is a work that has not been done so far, i.e. So far, no government has ever dared to do that. That's one thing. Indeed, it can be said that this is still insufficient, that it should be created differently, etc., only that we do it, that is, we are dealing with what was pathology on a huge scale under the PO-PSL government. Individual cases have also happened with us, yes, but we are learning from it and building mechanisms to prevent it. [[For 10 years.]] You guys didn't want to build this mechanism for eight years because it's uncomfortable. Maybe this one's flawed, imperfect, but it's much better than not having any mechanism. That's the most important thing. [[Minister, you were against it, too.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, well, you guys were eight years old when it comes to managing state Treasury companies. Of course, I can give examples, but I don't think this is the place, about how much money was taken out of the Treasury companies in your day. It was taken directly into private pockets. These are facts. [[You're taking people out on the street.]] If you want to know these statements, we will, of course, publish them. The last report presented by the company nitrogen plants in the Police shows how the previous team managed the companies. So you really need to think about what you're saying. We're trying to limit this. Of course, it can be criticised, but you do not want to leave behind the mechanism of the companies that existed in your governments, because this list really is very long. This list is very long. [[Voice from the hall: That's what the treasure minister and his guys were for.]] Proposal for a committee of competence tabled by representatives of Kukiz15. If, of course, parliamentary clubs make a proposal, it will be a purely political proposal. The Council of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy companies to assess competence are to be made up of outstanding professionals and experts, professors, not political parties, and that is the difference, because whatever we come up with, political parties will definitely be political individuals. Another case concerns the remainders and shares. Of course, it's not that cases involving more than 300 leftovers, in 300 companies, will be dealt with individually. The intention is to bring all these shares, the shares from the rest of the shares into one company, so that it is managed together. At this point it will be the value of one company, and it will not be 300 privatisation processes, because actually with these leftovers something needs to be done and sorted out. That's a fact. Polish Science and Technology Fund. I understand that until now it has been used, just remember that the Polish Science and Technology Fund has revenues from privatisation write-downs. So, really, if you don't assume privatisation revenues, then the fund will have no leverage. The holding of the fund for the fund is, of course, a vain action, and therefore the funds that will come from the liquidation of the fund will be used by the Minister of Science and Higher Education. On the other hand, if there is no privatisation, there will be no power supply, it is difficult to maintain the structure only for the very existence. There was a question about the list of companies relevant to economic importance. And here it has been repeated several times - I do not want to mention the list of these companies at the moment, because it will be made available - was given an example of a food company. Polish Sugar is, in my opinion, a company of importance for the Polish economy, at least for agriculture, and it can only be regretted that for many previous years, unfortunately Polish Sugar has been deprived of sugar limits, including access to sugar or granting etc. Yes, it was. But this is an extremely important example of a food company as regards a company of significant importance. Another question, that's art. 21 and the shut-downs that are out there. Of course, the list of exemptions can always be suggested, but I will remind you that so far there have been no exemptions. Now these shut-offs are. Maybe they're too small. Here was a quote and an example of Members. I do not see any Member acting on the boards of companies. [[The bill forbids.]] It is quite obvious and it is not necessary to write this in the Law on the Management of the Treasury property, because it is written in another law, i.e. the Member is simply forbidden. Of course, it can be repeated, but I don't think that's the point. The question was, what did Prime Minister Morawiecki say, whether he had an opinion on this? I stress: this is not a project of the ministry, this is a government project, so it is obvious that it is a project agreed by the whole government. The next thing you know, it's a question of whether it's a PZU charge. Mr Kasprzak, as if criticizing the domesticisation of banks or the reorganisation of banks, gives an example of insurance rates for the PZU. Mr President, other insurance companies have raised their rates much more than PZU. That's one thing. PZU raised the least of all insurance companies, and this decision resulted not only from a recommendation, from the order of the Commission for Financial Supervision, which was still directed by President Jakubiak, where insurance companies were even forced to raise the charges for OC, because according to the analysis of the KNF these fees and this segment, this insurance package was loss-making. Hence, all insurance companies, by virtue of the decision of the KNF appointed by you and managed by you, the entire insurance sector was forced to raise the rates on the OC. PZU picked up the least of all. It's just for an explanation. It's not asking for money to buy or recolonise any bank. Mr Gawlik, the Minister says that state companies still exist, even though we have declared otherwise. Yeah, except the realization was already part of the Civic Platform and PSL government. This has not been accomplished. [[6 months saved in the bill.]] I'm sorry. Even if it was a skirmish a few months back, you should finish it, so the charge that there's something up until now, even though you haven't done anything for eight years, is a charge. Not to us. [[No, it's not a charge, it's just that it's still...]] Yeah, but it was made in the form of a plea, so I'm telling you who that charge should possibly be directed at. Powerful investments in energy. This is where I have to refer. It's just that, you know, it wasn't really the kind of restriction on investment in energy that the previous crew gave us. [[Opole Power Plant, Bełchatów.]] Oh, that's it. We do not limit any investment in energy, even the opposite - we also renew investments in energy, e.g. Ostrołęka Power Plant. So, putting that charge on the table that... [[It's not a charge, it's information.]] But the statement was that it was such an investment in energy, and we're gonna ruin something here. So I'm pointing out... [[The thought was that it worked well.]] And it will work even better, because there will be more of these investments. There will be more of these investments when it comes to investments in energy. Mr Zubowski has actually calculated the money here from the justification, so I will not answer that yes. And I guess that's all I could... [[Verification of current members.]] A, the Act does not provide, therefore, that verification of the current members under the Act will not be carried out. On the other hand, if any cases have occurred, they have already been verified. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u394	Thank you very much. I'm closing... [[Your Marshal...]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. You haven't been mentioned, sir, there's no correction. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject both projects at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. [[Your Marshal, since I was mentioned on the issue of a state-owned company, I would like to refer to it.]] But the discussion is closed, I'm sorry, reflexes, sir. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: But it was replaced.]] We proceed to the examination of item 40 of the agenda: First reading of the government bill on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland (print No 1055). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury of Mr. Nicholas Wild to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u395	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you a draft law on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, a project which uses the experience that has been accumulated during the ten-year functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the General Treasury. The basic changes envisaged by the project are the extension of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury. This extension is first manifested by an increase in the scope of the subjective replacement provided by the Attorney General, this time already the Republic of Poland. This means that, in addition to the bodies representing the State Treasury, the Public Prosecutor's Office will be able to replace the state authorities in administrative proceedings, as well as in certain situations public legal persons or persons with the State Treasury or public legal persons. We trust that this extension of the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury will be effective and will lead to the implementation of the costs incurred by those entities that I have just mentioned. Further powers entrusted to the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office relate, first, to the establishment of an arbitration court at the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, in which entities with the State Treasury will be able to settle their disputes, without burdening them on the judiciary or economic arbitrage, and also disputes which sometimes occur between the organisational units of the State Treasury, are disputes that can never be brought to the courts because the organisational units of the State Treasury do not have legal personality, but these disputes are real. Finally, the scope of the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury is increased. Opinioning activities will in principle be optional, except for two types of situations: firstly, all contracts, all legal activities concluded by state units, if they are above PLN 100 million, will have to be assessed by the Public Prosecutor-General, secondly, legal advice contracts exceeding the amount of 500 000. PLN per year will also have to be evaluated by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury... already by the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u396	Thank you very much, Minister. Marshal of the Sejm after consulting... I'm sorry, I'm lost. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, representative of the Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to the bill, you can say, punishing the Attorney General. This is a continuation of good interwar practices in Poland, where the Attorney General has just controlled the processes that took place in the Treasury. The idea of the appointment of the Attorney General now, after 1989, was reborn in the 1990s, in the late 1990s. It was still a project within the AWS programme, but unfortunately, later it turned out that the tendencies of friends of the Treasury and people who were making wealth on the Treasury were strong enough that the Attorney General was only brought to the Department of the Ministry of the Treasury, or in fact a procedural replacement, i.e. a tool that defended the Treasury from various temptations, and defended well, while there was no body to control at least the process of preparing privatisation. You can guess why. And if there had been a specialized entity subordinate to the Prime Minister at that time, perhaps there would not have been so many scandalous privatisations, where often public opinion, parliament or even the treasure committee learned about privatisation when it was done and later the Supreme Audit Chamber, controlling the process of preparation for privatisation or the price of privatisation, concluded that there had been abuses, crimes. Some companies after these successful privatisations simply fell, often robbed by supposedly new owners who were supposed to bring something to these companies. Very often, as the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out, no arrangements were made from privatisation agreements, and mostly no non-financial arrangements for privatisation agreements were carried out. All of this led us to equip the Attorney General with new tools that would allow us to control the various kinds of actions that are taking place in the Treasury companies, and this will also be the instrument of the Prime Minister who will control it, not the tool of the Supreme Auditorium, which states that something was wrong, even directs applications to the prosecution, but then it is too late, because it is often impossible to recover or stop processes that have already gone through. It will be a specialized entity that will oversee the projects of various types of ownership changes, contracts and will also fulfil the previous tasks of the procedural replacement, but extended to replace or represent the various entities of the Treasury. This is one of the elements of the elimination of this, you can say, the habitat of evil that spread in the Ministry of the Treasury. Here we were just talking about another law that is supposed to civilize the oversight of personal changes. Let me remind you that here you said that it was as great as Minister Grad did, that he called two of his friends who made a choice, and that there was a competition between the Prime Minister and the Treasury Minister, who would rip out the supervision of the Treasury companies and the nominations in these companies. Since the Prime Minister is responsible for the state and the State Treasury's assets, on the one hand the Prime Minister will appoint such a team, and this was your project. At one time, you wanted to set up this nomination committee as part of just rationalising and developing good practices. [[The voice from the room: You wanted us to...]] You didn't make it, so we're doing it. It's gonna be a really specialized tool. The second control tool to control is the Attorney General. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will make those changes that were necessary and which will prevent pathologies such as those that have been for the past twenty years with privatisations and with the Ministry of the Treasury, where, you can say...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u398	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u399	...Friends of the Treasury who have done very bad things stuck together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We'll wait, we'll see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u400	I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u401	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! I don't know, I think we could use a doctor for President Marek Suski, [[Applause]] Because at every meeting we talk about treasury issues, there is a problem with the treasure minister, who probably, at least in the assessment of some, did not all things wrong. But let's cut to the chase, because we are dealing with the problem of the proposed Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office, and we are not talking about the management of the Treasury's assets. Allow me to take care of this bill. The problem of representation of the state, so-called The fiscal, civil-law trade and the protection of public property interests are socio-economically important issues, it is complex in terms of jurisdiction and, at the same time, controversial in doctrine, because it is at the interface of two areas, two regulatory methods: public law and private law. For a long time, attempts have been made to regulate this issue, since already in the Middle Ages, Mr S.A., there was a prosecutor acting as an adviser and a substitute for the royal crown and the State Treasury, and in the 19th century in some countries there was a significant development of prosecutors' institutions and prosecutors in a manner that suited the organisation and needs of the modern state. In fact, in all modern countries, the question of the management of the State Treasury's assets and the representation of the state in private trade is of interest to legislators who adopt different models to regulate this issue, seeking a certain balance in the regulatory field and effective protection. On the basis of the systems of European countries, three methods of regulation can be distinguished - it is a pity that there is no time - i.e. British, German and system adopted in Poland, adopted from the system of German law, based on civilistic structures of representation. [[Thief.]] In the Republic of Poland, the matter of the protection and representation of the state's assets became particularly important with the moment of departure from the planned economy and the transition to the market economy system. The representation system of the state and the management of the State's assets and the institution governing the Treasury, the representation of the State Treasury were regulated in the Act of 8 July 2005 on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the General Treasury. I will only mention that 15 years have been worked on this law in Poland for various reasons and reasons, but I think that the solutions adopted in this law were not bad. During the interwar period - this was also referred to by my previous speaker - from 1918 until 1954 the Public Prosecutor General functioned in Poland and effectively defended the estate of the State Treasury. I refer to the statements, reflections of Bukowecki's then president, who said why this could happen and why it was happening. Is it now time to judge and review these ways of representation? In my opinion, this is not enough time. The D.A. hasn't worked for ten years. It seems - what it was easy to see at a conference which so recently took place in the Sejm - that in order to formulate evaluations, a certain distance is needed here, some people spoke of even decades, in order to really assess how much this institution, the body that was, is, has been, has worked enough. This requires, as it seems, the dogmatic analysis of the construction of the Treasury as a legal person as defined in Article. 33 and 34 Civil Code, showing that it is a separate legal person from other state legal persons. Particular attention should also be paid to the article in particular. 40, which shows how responsibility in the area of the State Treasury and state legal entities is shaped. As far as the project is concerned, I am pleased because in the explanatory memorandum it is mentioned that the assessment of the Public Prosecutor's Office as an institution of the Treasury confirms that it is an effective and professional institution that effectively protects the interests of the State, i.e. not everything of the last 10 or 8 years has probably been wrong. We're saying here we're expanding the powers of the D.A. Not necessarily, because we're resigning from the military courts. Question: "Why?" The justification is very laconic: it has a marginal meaning. Just because it hasn't happened many times in 10 years doesn't mean... It's not like we're building an institution for six months, three years, but we're probably building an institution that serves everyone. The competences are expanding, as the Minister also said, in many spheres. Competences are broadened in terms of representation of state legal persons, legal persons with the participation of the State Treasury, legal persons with the participation of state legal persons. And, of course, it can be assumed that this is the case, only the question of how this is presented in the classic system when it comes to the issue of liability. Because if someone's preparing an opinion, if someone agrees to something, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If someone is preparing a pattern for someone, the question arises who is responsible for it. Who's responsible for this? There is a question of responsibility, public aid, representation, etc. There are many problems with what this law provides - the issue of pay and so on. - which make it difficult to accept the proposed legislation. For this reason, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is asking you to reject this project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u402	Thank you very much, sir. And I would like to invite Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u403	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to make it as short as I can. The new regulations that are planned in the bill presented, in my opinion it is already largely a systemic change, as we are quite significantly increasing the powers, we are creating a specific new body, directly subordinate to the President of the Council of Ministers, settled by the Sejm, therefore this is already a systemic change. It would probably be advisable, however, for us to reflect more deeply on this in the longer term rather than in the way that we de facto have a few weeks to bring these provisions into force. This is too short a period and this is not a good practice that is continued all the time that we do everything very quickly and in a very little deeper way. I am a little afraid that, in conjunction with the previous bill we have just discussed here, I mean the one who will talk about the Treasury companies, about the state assets, we start to create a little bit of a social economy known from the previous system. And we are also beginning to create, as we look at this law, a little bit of a state economic arbitrage, which is to introduce between these units of the social economy - so to speak - this order. This is going back a few dozen years and it is going back a few dozen years to the right period. However, this does not mean that we condemn these new solutions to the extent we are talking about here, i.e. in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. This change in the system, because that's how I see it, but it can't lead to monopolization. We are very close to this, because the solutions proposed here may lead to the monopolization of certain types of services, and that would not be advisable. Monopolization is never good. However, mechanisms should be put in place to prevent monopolization, because the prosecutors - with all due respect for their achievements and assuming that they will be significantly strengthened - will not be able to cope with all the challenges of modern economic life and monopolization could actually mean a weakening of the legal service of individuals to which the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland is to serve. The second point, which Mr Suski has just mentioned here, gives me some concern. Namely, the prosecutor is treated as a control body. This can't be right. This is a specialized unit that's supposed to be an advisory unit. She is supposed to secure the interest of the Treasury through appropriate, professional, high-quality advice. But it can't be an organ to control, because it can lead to competence chaos, and it can't be. Therefore, the proper action of the prosecutors is to rely on top-level advice rather than on control. The fact that we add competence here through the mandatory opinion of certain such or other activities, in itself... An idea that is probably worth supporting, but it cannot remove decision-making powers from the body that is called for to decide. Opinion - opinion, decision - decision. This, however, must be carefully distinguished. Another problem is that in this law I do not see the proper reinforcement which the Public Prosecutor General of the Republic of Poland must receive if it is to get new powers, competences which are responsibilities - therefore the strengthening of staff, financial and strengthening of the appropriate number of specialists is necessary here. In other words, money and specialists. I am not sure that in such a short time it will be possible for this institution, so important at this moment and increasingly important, more important than ever before... It does not appear from the Act that this law can be strengthened in such a short period of time as it is to enter into force. So I think we should slow down a little bit, postpone the period of entry into force, discuss how to create this body. Because the prosecutor's experience so far is very positive - we can't deny that the prosecutor has done a lot in those 10 years of his existence, gained experience, built a team, and that's positive, it needs to be developed. If there is a project to expand these competences, it is likely that this must be supported, assuming that this will not lead to a monopoly. However, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It has to be a real job, so let's move it all by a year. During this year we will be able, or for at least 6 months, to refine a good project that will strengthen these tasks that are planned. Thank you very much. [[But it's a good project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u404	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u405	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would really like to reassure you here, because I do not know where Mr Suski got this information, in turn, that the Attorney General of the Republic of Poland is to be a control body, because I, when examining and reading the provisions of this law... [[Like he said, he knew what he was saying.]] ...I have not found this type of legislation, and I do not think that it is necessary to sanction the Attorney General, because even the state itself in the justification of this project you admit that this institution is highly effective and very well performing the tasks that have been delegated to it. Thus, it is only a bow towards lawyers from the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury. You want to warm yourselves up more in the glory of the Attorney General by expanding, perhaps rightly, the scope of its activities. Here we are not dealing with the creation of a new unit, but in principle with the transformation of the existing Public Prosecutor's Office of the General Treasury into the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, and I must say with embarrassment that the law of systemic importance is indeed prepared in a way - Minister, unfortunately I must say it - outrageous. [[Why?]] Why in a scandalous way? Please pay attention to Art. 7 of this project. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 you refer the State to the definition of entities representing the Treasury, to Article. The 6th Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property, and yet this law has not yet been passed. I'm asking you, how do you want to fill in these definitions? This law also shows inconsistencies in the very definition of individual institutions in many places. I think it would be appropriate, Minister, to put the vocabulary of individual institutions in the act itself, in order to clarify the different meanings. Mr Suski also spoke here about the high hopes that you place in the changes related to the Attorney General. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 Indeed, you point to the independence of the prosecutors in terms of their tasks, but at the same time in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 You point out that the basic procedural actions of the trial will, however, be able to be carried out and binding on the Attorney General. It's incoherent. [[No, it's not.]] In my view, this is inconsistent. In addition, within the scope of your competence, you also leave the State of Prosecutors to deliver legal opinions, while you disregard the independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the field of legal opinions in the statement of reasons. This makes it possible for the entire task of the Attorney General to prove that the prosecutor will only be a piece of paper, maybe not a piece of paper, but a fig leaf to cover the incompetence of individual ministries. And I don't know if you're afraid of art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, where you indicate that the President of the Prosecutor's Office cannot refuse to issue a legal opinion if the value of the subject matter exceeds PLN 1 million. With a very wide range of art. Paragraph 7 1, if we take into account what you have just indicated in Article. 7, this may result in the number of applications for which an opinion cannot be refused simply blocking the actions of the prosecutor and not being able to carry out its tasks effectively. There are still many examples of inconsistencies of this kind, and unfortunately time will not allow me to say it, but one last thing. Once again, you are trying to smuggle personnel regulations into this bill. It's about art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 5. In fact, in the article. 128 you say there will be a consequence here according to labour law, but in the mouth. 5 you say that the Office of the Attorney General is [[♪ The bell ♪]] The obligation to offer new working conditions and wages to workers. What's that supposed to do? New working conditions and wages? There is generally a succession of employment relations in previous legislation, and now there are new working conditions and wages. It's nothing but another verification gate, and it's an unjustified verification. As well as changing wage and labour conditions can take place on a general basis...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u406	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u407	...from the Labour Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u408	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u409	Excuse me, this is a comprehensive bill, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u410	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u411	On behalf of the Poselski Club, of course. Modern motion for rejection at first reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u412	Thank you. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u413	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In order not to forget, I also ask for rejection at first reading, but not to make someone angry here just to give time for further discussion and good preparation of this project. As the previous speakers said - a professional lecture was made here by the professor, Mr Zdzisław Gawlik - this is a bill over which... Maybe I'll start by wondering at all, ladies and gentlemen, that the explanatory statement says that the Attorney General is being created, because it's been functioning for 10 years now, working well and working well. Nobody here has any objections, and we're afraid to admit anything good was going on before the PiS took over. Let's not do that. Even Mr Suski, speaking, referred to good experiences from the Second Republic of Poland, but he did not say that we also have good experiences in this Third Republic. One day, let it cross your throat that something in our country has been done good, that nothing begins with taking power by the PiS, so here's the point. It is similar in the explanatory memorandum, although the Minister - thanks for it - said that there are very good experiences from these 10 years. I remember how much discussion and how much work it took to make a good bill. If there's a bill that works and works, then why the gallop that we have to do it today? Let's change that, because surely time, life brings change. There's a plan to make the changes we talked about earlier. We're doing a competition here, whether we're gonna be able to get together at one meeting or two meetings to pass such an important bill, a law, even a system act, because it has such rules of the system. So we're signing off on this. I'm not going to go into details because it's not the time to discuss here today. Let's work on this bill, but not in this way, because nothing out of the ordinary has happened. Everyone says the bill is good, except for the PiS, but the Minister has also confirmed that there are very good experiences. You have to use these experiences to improve, maybe create an even better law. Nobody's gonna protest and defend here, but let's make sense and logic. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u414	Thank you very much, sir. Six Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. And he's the first to ask Mr. Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We recently celebrated the 200th anniversary of the Attorney General. There were many summaries, many warm words about the functioning of the prosecutors over the years, not only in the interwar 20s, but also in modern times. These performance indicators achieved by the D.A. are very, very good. Let's hope they stay in the future. The main source of these successes is the people who work in the D.A. They have to face the best of well-paid law firms, and they're not in a lost position. I am all the more surprised by this provision that my colleague has already mentioned in his article. 128, which is such a rule that checks the staff. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Each employee will have to have new working conditions and wages proposed. You don't really have to change staff to staff that will be faithful to Law and Justice at this office, where staff are very professional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u416	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u417	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a question about art. 26 laws. Under this provision, you are creating an arbitration court in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, but in the framework of the Public Prosecutor's Office there will also be a replacement for various entities of the State Treasury, in so broad terms. Aren't you concerned that there will be a conflict of interest in this case, and that arbitration court will be a judge in its own affairs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u418	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u419	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! I have a question. What do you argue about the situation where a counselor can sit on two supervisory boards and two more? What happened that you increased your share of the costs from 50 to 60% of the replacement? This involves smuggling personnel regulations. It's also where you smuggle financial regulations. And another question: Why does the President and Vice President exclude himself from the application of the anti-corruption law in this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u420	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u421	Thank you, Marshal. I think it's the last time today, today. I have a question for the Minister, because here we are still discussing these matters and practically every point of the discussion comes with this staff thread. Today, the predecessors have already asked such questions. Besides, it's not new. It appears in the text of the project that many new people will need to be hired. How did you calculate how many more people would be employed? What's the cost according to your project? How much longer will the administration increase in the country? Another position, another position. Will you verify to the end all those who have worked so far, because this verification, as written, will follow? Will there be another Bear because that's what they're called? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although I don't expect it, because here you really need good professionals. How much is this going to cost the state in general, because there is no doubt that there are costs involved? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u422	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Suski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u423	Minister! I have a question: How many years does it take to assess the institution's activities? Here Mr. Gawlik said it would take decades to assess the institution's activities. The Attorney General. Like someone here said, can we appreciate something that was created in the Third Republic of Poland. This is why we appreciate the Attorney General, and that's why we're giving her more authority because it's an institution that's proven itself. It's a pity she didn't have more powers, because it would probably be a different kind of privatisation, like you did, Minister Gawlik, for example in the case of the Radom Liaison Factory... I asked you not to sell the company a bush that had a fortune of 5,000. zł. After two years, this factory... 400 people are out on the street. [[Did you have another company?]] So you have your sins, too, not just your friend Grad. That's why I have a question: could they be, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the Attorney General were to evaluate the privatisation process, such scandalous privatisations as in the days of the Platform? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u424	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u425	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Fighting in someone else's breasts and throwing a stone by Mr Mark Susky doesn't surprise me, but it's good that there are still institutions that evaluate certain events and behaviors, which is why I walk calmly and I believe that I will continue to walk calmly, and I have nothing to say about it. I'm glad the D.A. works the way it works, among other things. The Minister is now an example of this and all these successes are also his. Thank you very much. I don't think I'm doing you a bear favor. Since the institution is good, it may be possible to modernize something sometimes. You remember that there were two laws that changed as far as possible, because it's not always so that if someone wants to, they can achieve what they want, because just because they seem to them doesn't mean that it's possible. But it's different. [[Exactly.]] Minister! How do you think that's gonna happen? Because we're just introducing in this bill, in the previous one and in this one, as if centralized supervision over everything. You have a proposed recipe, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which indicates that you are giving an opinion on any agreement for any legal advice in the case of a state legal person. Of course, it can go even further if the amount of the service exceeds the equivalent of 0.5 million per year. Question: "What services must the D.A. have in order to carry out such activities?" How many contracts can there be on a yearly basis? How many people need to just hire and what costs Do you have to carry it? How much is that estimate? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u426	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury Mr Mikołaj Wild will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u427	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A few corrections, because before I answer questions, I have to correct some mistakes that I trust have been made in good faith. First, I'm going to thank you for your kind words about the Attorney General. [[Applause]] I'm glad the U.S. Attorney General is being evaluated. However, there is no doubt that the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury as a body supervised by the Minister of the Treasury had to carry out its life when the Ministry of the Treasury ceased to exist. That's the first reason for such a procedure, not another one. The laws reforming the management of the property of the State Treasury, which remove the Ministry of Treasury, are linked. The Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury is one of the components of this reform. Hence again the question: How is it possible that the Act on the Attorney General refers to the Law on the Management of Property? [[But it's not here yet.]] Of course, the law does not exist yet, while the introductory provisions also refer to this law. This is a philosophy that assumes that we create a coherent system. We do not create our own hull regulations, our own hull definitions of state legal entities. Costs are needed, costs are estimated. This is 20 million PLN. Let me remind you that today's budget for the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury is PLN 30 million, today's case is 51 billion... [[Millions.]] ...so we're talking about a budget that's 1,500 times smaller than what the D.A.'s dealing with today. As far as the staff review rule is concerned, as it's been interpreted, I'm in a hurry to correct it. The only function of this provision is to adapt the terms of pay and work to the new network of posts that occurs in the prosecutor's office. That means, first of all, there will be no senior counsel in the new Attorney General. There will be no senior counsel, there will not be such rank: counsel, senior counsel. There will simply be counselors in the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. Secondly, in order to create an attractive alternative to the career path of those lawyers who want to serve Poland from the prosecutor's office, the remuneration of prosecutors is linked to the earnings of judges. There's no way to do this on old terms. This has to be changed. This is not a matter of speaking, this is not a matter of purges suggested in your speeches. It's a simple, orderly regulation. There was a question or a concern that the Public Prosecutor General might monopolize legal services for state-owned legal persons and persons with the State Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are only talking about state legal persons and persons with the participation of the State Treasury, which will be mentioned in the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers. This does not apply to all 500 state-owned legal persons who will now be obliged to use the services of the prosecutor. Where the interests of the Republic so require, this replacement will appear because the property of state legal persons, as well as the property of companies of the State Treasury held by the State Treasury, is a state property. Question: "If there were amending laws, why not make another law that would clipping up what the D.A. has been failing so far?" [[What wasn't good enough?]] Here, unfortunately, I cannot agree with the optimistic assessment of the laws, especially the last law, which was adopted at the end of the last term of the Sejm, because it was a law which had already assumed the winding up of the General Prosecutor's Office, which assumed that its budget would be cut by 10%. It was a road set up in the bill. The question is, in the name of what... There were also a few questions, in the name of which the replacement costs are increased. It's not rising. The replacement costs, as before and today, remain at 65% as in the Law on Legal Counsel and in many other acts. [[There's 50 in the D.A.'s current law.]] No, I'm sorry, it's not true that there's 50 in the D.A.'s current law. I know that from an autopsy. Gentlemen don't discuss facts. Why is the possibility for prosecutors of the Public Prosecutor's Office to sit on the supervisory boards of State Treasury companies introduced? Because it may be worthwhile for you to put the Attorney General in one of the Treasury companies; because it may be worthwhile for you. Why is the D.A.'s president excluded from the anti-corruption bill? It's not. The President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury is excluded from the Act on the Remuneration of Persons with Managing Functions in the State, i.e. from the Erka. This isn't an anti-corruption bill. This is a misunderstanding, ladies and gentlemen. It's just a misunderstanding. [[Yes, sir.]] I cannot resist the impression that most of the comments that have been made to the law that has been submitted to you refer to the solutions that are currently being adopted. Currently there are solutions to the dictionary, i.e. there is no dictionary before the law. There are currently solutions that have been called into question by the Member. One last thing. Of course, it can be considered whether the Attorney General should provide a replacement for military courts. In my view, this case is not only that it did not happen, it is not going to happen, but in order for it to be so, it cannot be voted against without being sent to committee. One rule out the other. Finally, the arbitration court in front of the Attorney General. Isn't there a risk of conflict of interest? Ladies and gentlemen, the arbitration court at the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury is created on similar terms as the successful arbitration court at the Financial Supervision Commission. That doesn't mean the D.A.'s attorneys are gonna end up in court. The idea is to create an attractive and cost-effective one, let us stress: cost-effective, alternative to burdening in the case of disputes between entities controlled by the state of justice, and to charge the budgets of these persons with substitution costs, the cost of legal services, which are currently largely transferred outside. And it is not hypothetical that the provision of legal services is a way of delivering the company's money. These are not hypothetical cases, these are not cases that happen occasionally. Moreover, the cases of foaming between companies controlled by the State Treasury are not hypothetical either. There are cases where two companies from the same group correspond to each other by means of a network firm. It's pathology, it's just pathology. So, I hope I have referred to all the doubts you have raised. I hope that I will have the opportunity to address other doubts, if necessary, in case of referral to committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u428	Thank you. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal (Print No 1059). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u429	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It has been my honour to present to the High House a draft law on the rules implementing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Two laws: on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and, the second, on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal introduce a new system of law on the Constitutional Tribunal. These laws are intended to replace the existing rules on matters relating to the tribunal. In order to relieve these laws from the provisions amending, transitional and adapting, as well as to ensure consistency and transparency of the new legislation, the group of Members proposed to include provisions on the entry into force, amending, repealing, transitional and adapting the introductory provisions in a separate law. In order to ensure the transparency of the act, it was divided into four chapters. The systematics of the Act is in line with the requirements of the principles of legislative technique, except that, for reasons of clarity of the act, a provision repealing the Constitutional Court Act of 2016 was made before the amending provisions. Such a technique has already been applied in legislative practice, among others. in the Law of 30 August 2002. Provisions introducing the Law on the System of Administrative Courts and the Law on the Procedure of Administrative Courts. At that time, there was no doubt about it. The draft provides that the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. They shall enter into force on the day following the date of their notification and Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 2018 and shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Prior entry into force of Article. It is necessary to define, among other things, the internal organs of the Constitutional Tribunal and what is the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and its competence. In the case of Article. The proposal provides that these provisions will enter into force on 1 January 2018 on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. In this way, the projector gives time for activities related to the liquidation of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal and the establishment of the Registry of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. Article 2 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 16 and 17, Art. 19, Art. 31 and Article 31 35, which shall enter into force on the day following the day of the notice. This is intended to enable the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to be paid the basis for the remuneration and the remuneration of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest, as well as to ensure that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal take office at the Constitutional Court, as the said provisions determine the beginning of office. The rules are also intended to enable certain judges to retire. The draft implementing provisions repeal the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 22 July 2016 but temporarily maintain the provisions of the Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On the basis of the fact that the liquidation process of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal is spread over time and will not be completed until 1 January 2018, when the Registry of the Constitutional Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal are established. The introductory law contains amending provisions. This is a consequence of the fact that the laws on the status of judges of the tribunal and on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the tribunal affect the content of other laws. The proposed amending provisions are intended to ensure the uniformity and consistency of the legal system. In cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Organisation and Procedure Act before the Court of Justice, proceedings shall be conducted on the basis of the principles laid down in that Law. The proceedings before the Court of Justice before the entry into force of the Act on organisation and procedure before the Court of Justice shall remain in force. This ensures that the interests in progress are protected. The draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Court of Justice does not change the rules of procedure in a diametric manner, but arranges them and complements them with solutions which have so far been adopted in lower rank acts, although according to the case-law of the Court of Justice they should be included in the law. The Act on the Status of Judges of the Tribunal shall significantly redefine certain duties of Judges of the Tribunal. As this represents a significant change in the number of civil rights of the judge (e.g. right to privacy - disclosure of assets, in this context This should be seen) compared to the moment when the current judges decided to accept the choice, the projector allows them to re-verify the decision. The draft law proposes that the judge of the Tribunal whose term of office began before the date of entry into force of the Act on the Status of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may, within one month of the date of its entry into force, make a statement to the President of the Tribunal that, in view of the introduction during his term of office of office of the new rules for the performance of the duties of the Judge of the Tribunal as set out in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, Article 13 and Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning It is simply a judge's decision - if he is not embarrassed by the fact that he is to disclose a declaration of property, he does not have to make such decisions. The Court of Justice shall be retiring in this case on the first day of the month following the month in which the declaration is made. The President of the Tribunal shall declare the transition to rest by way of order. The designer assumed that the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal would be operational until 31 December 2017. On 1 January 2018, it will be abolished and the Constitutional Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal will be established. Until 31 December 2017, the Tribunal's office is expected to operate on the basis of most of the existing rules. From the day following the date of publication of this Act, only the head of the Tribunal's office will be wound up. Its duties shall be taken over by the President of the Tribunal or by a person authorised by him. There will be a position of the person responsible for the liquidation of the office and the establishment of new cells. During the transitional period, the staff of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal shall retain their rights of employment and carry out their duties in accordance with the scope of the existing acts on the basis of which their employment relationship was established. In the period up to 30 September 2017, workers will be presented with new working conditions and wages. If they refuse, their employment relationship will expire on 31 December 2017. The same applies to workers who will not be offered new conditions. This process is based on appropriate procedures. Departure workers will be guaranteed adequate checks in accordance with the Law on special rules for the termination of employment relationships with workers on grounds not relating to workers. The proposed solution therefore meets the standards for the protection of workers' rights. Changes in the structure of the organisational units of the tribunal are necessary. They are intended to improve the functioning of the tribunal and optimise its organisational and administrative activities and ensure that the subsidiary of the tribunal is of a professional nature. The creation of a rational organisational structure of the subsidiary bodies of the Court will encourage savings and reduce the annual maintenance costs of the Constitutional Tribunal's office. The reorganisation process will be spread over time for two reasons. Firstly, the designer wants to provide employees with all statutory employee guarantees. Secondly, for reasons of public finances, the projector wanted to avoid a situation in which it would be necessary to amend the budget law during the financial year due to the new organisational structure of the subsidiary bodies of the Court. The new structure was not included in the current financial plans of the Court, as at the time of their establishment the draft law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Court was not known. Therefore, the adaptation provisions require that when planning the budget of the Court for 2018, the Registry of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service of the Court, which will be operational from 1 January 2018, be taken into account. Earlier acts will be issued specifying the organisational structure and the number of employees to be employed in those units. This is intended to facilitate the formation of the organisation and staff resources of the law firm and the Legal Service Office. In view of the need to ensure the proper functioning of the Court and to enable changes to be made to the organisational structures of its subsidiary bodies, the draft provides for certain internal acts, such as the rules of procedure of the Court, the Statute of the Court's Registry, the Statute of the Court's Office of Legal Service, the Ethics Code of the Tribunal. It should be stressed that the statutes of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service are to be adopted before new subsidiary bodies are established. This will make it possible to define employment policies and prepare a fair draft budget for the Court. The creation of new units is also intended to be carried out by the President of the Court by 31 August 2017 of regulations on specific issues relating to the number, the list of posts in the organisational units concerned, the qualification requirements for the occupation of these posts, the detailed scope of tasks in these positions and the manner and conditions for their execution, as well as the rules for the remuneration of the staff of the Registry and the Office of the Legal Service. Acts concerning the Registry of the Court and the Office of the Legal Service of the Court are to enter into force on 1 January 2018, i.e. when these entities were set up. This is intended to prevent the existence of a double legal regime concerning the organisational structures of the tribunal. The laws on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Tribunal, which introduces the proposed law, shall be adopted during the period when the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal expires. At the same time, the public is informed of a number of actions of the Constitutional Tribunal which do not comply with the Constitutional Tribunal Act in force. They consist, first, of preventing the three judges of the Tribunal elected by the Sejm for the 8th term of office from attending general meetings during which a number of relevant decisions are taken, secondly, the issuing of a legally defective ruling on the signature of K 44/ on 7 November 2016 by the Constitutional Tribunal. 16, in which the judges considered the rules governing the election of candidates as President of the Constitutional Tribunal to be constitutionally compatible. The disadvantages of this settlement consist, first, of an unlawful change in the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal ruling contrary to the literal requirement of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, secondly, in the statement of reasons, i.e. in the non-normative part of the judgment, granting the general assembly the power to modify the Constitutional Tribunal Act and, thirdly, to take action to issue contrary to the Constitutional Tribunal's Rules of Procedure. Cumulation of the circumstances of, first, the changes in the legal system, second, the expiry of the term of office of the President of the Tribunal, third, the actions taken by the Tribunal and its President, which do not comply with the Constitution and the Constitutional Tribunal Act, may make it impossible to effectively elect candidates for the position of President of the Tribunal or appoint a President within a certain period of time. In the event of such an emergency, the drafter proposed the introduction of an adjustment body, namely the position of the judge acting as President of the Tribunal. The proposed solution is exceptional, temporary and is dictated by exceptional circumstances. The drafter charged the President of the Republic of Poland with the obligation to entrust such a judge with the duties of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. It justifies this as follows. First of all, the president, based on the article. 126 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the task of upholding the Constitution. This task also concerns ensuring the sound and efficient functioning of public institutions through the cooperation of the authorities, as set out in the preamble to the Constitution. Secondly, the legislator authorised the President of the Republic of Poland to introduce a state of emergency at the request of the Council of Ministers. in the event of a threat to the constitutional system of the State, Article. Point (b) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland - which undoubtedly shows that in critical moments the President is obliged to act to ensure the stability of the state. Third, granting the President of the Republic of Poland the power to designate a person acting as President of the Constitutional Tribunal is justified by the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland has entrusted the President with the power to appoint the President of the Constitutional Tribunal from among the candidates designated by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This power is the prerogative of the President. If there were circumstances that would prevent the President from legally setting up the President of the Tribunal in December 2016, it would be appropriate for the President to appoint a person acting as President who will carry out a procedure within the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to appoint candidates for the position of President in a manner consistent with the rules of law. The President will appoint such a judge with a resolution. For legal reasons, this provision requires countersignation. The main task of the judge acting as President is to hold a lawful general assembly which will appoint candidates for the position of President and present them to the President of the Republic of Poland. It will also ensure the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Only the judge of the Tribunal may be a person acting as President. The President shall elect a grandstand judge who shall be entrusted with the duties of President from among the governors with the longest term of office in the general court or at the central state administration in positions relating to the application of the law. This standard is intended to guarantee that the President's action will not be arbitrary and that he will elect a judge who, due to his professional experience, including his organisational work, will give the guarantee of proper management of the institution during extraordinary circumstances and will ensure a smooth and reliable restoration of the legality of the tribunal. Such a person shall carry out his or her duties only until the President of the Tribunal has been appointed. The law provides for 1 month to carry out the selection procedure. This is a rational term which will provide sufficient time for selection and will not constitute abuse of the law by excessive exercise of powers by a person who is not the President of the Tribunal. The proposed solution is to implement the balance of power and to fulfil the constitutional function that it is the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal that presents candidates for the position of President of the Constitutional Tribunal to the President. It would therefore be unacceptable to entrust matters relating to the functioning of the tribunal to someone outside the judicial body of the tribunal. The temporary assignment of the duties of the judge to the President of the Tribunal does not make that person President. It is only a person who is to organise and conduct an appropriate, lawful procedure for the presentation of candidates for President at the General Assembly. The President must appoint the President of the Tribunal from among the candidates designated by the General Assembly and this constitutional standard is to be maintained. The person acting as President shall ensure that the procedure is lawful. The draft confers powers on the judge exercising the duties of the President of the Tribunal, which will enable him to direct the tribunal during a transitional period and ensure that the situation at the Constitutional Court is brought to an effective level in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. It will prevent the tribunal from being paralyzed. The appointment of a judge acting as President shall not be compulsory. It will only occur in an emergency situation, defined by the grounds of the Act. These are cases where, until the date of publication of this law, the General Assembly, firstly, was not convened by the President of the Tribunal, secondly, it was convened by the President contrary to the requirements of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 2016, because it was in force, thirdly, did not submit candidates for the position of President of the Tribunal to the President of the Tribunal, fourthly, submitted candidates for the position of President of the Tribunal, and the President did not appoint the President of the Tribunal, fifthly having appointed candidates for the position of President of the Tribunal in breach of the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 2016. The procedure in this respect is laid down in the draft Introductory Provisions Act. The mechanism set out in the Introductory Provisions is the accident power of the General Assembly to present the candidates for President and the powers of the President to appoint that body. The procedure guarantees representativeness of the choice, since it assumes that at least one of the candidates must always be supported by at least five members of the General Assembly. Nor does it restrict the constitutional powers of the President. The voting procedure by the general assembly for individual candidates is also the legal form of this assembly by means of a resolution, the purpose of which is to present candidates for the position of President of the Republic of Poland. In view of the exceptional circumstances, the proposed mechanism is more effective in expressing the joint opinion of the Authority and respecting the preferences of the various members of the General Assembly. In the face of a dispute with the Constitutional Tribunal, the proposed solution gives the opportunity to reach a broad consensus on the persons to be presented to the President. In addition, the mechanism does not differentiate between the powers or powers of the members of the General Assembly, and each member of the General Assembly has an impact on the final list of candidates for the position of President of the Constitutional Tribunal, regardless of what position he takes in the dispute over the Tribunal. In this way, equality shall be ensured for judges in the exercise of their office and the equal weight and individual nature of the votes cast in the procedure referred to in Article. Paragraph 194. 2 constitutions. One vote shall ensure the representativeness of the candidates and, in view of the fact that neither the constitution nor the law determines how many candidates are to be submitted to the President, it should be assumed that each of the judges of the Tribunal may indicate the preferences for his candidate as President. This confirms that the General Assembly shall, in the form of a resolution, present as candidates a certain number of votes. The proposed mechanism is intended to allow for a quick selection of candidates for the position of President and thus lead to the implementation of the standard resulting from the Article. Paragraph 194. 2 constitutions. In view of the fact that it is referred to in Article. 21 of the draft procedure is different from that indicated in the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Court, which cannot be extended to other circumstances. It may only be applied in the case to which the introductory provisions apply. The implementing act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of the provisions concerning the entry into force of the main laws, the repeal of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 2016, the structure of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal, the institution acting as President of the Tribunal and its powers, and the provisions on the election of candidates for President by the General Assembly. Those provisions are to enter into force on the day following the date of publication. The special circumstances connected with the dispute around the tribunal and the need to protect the legitimate operation of public authorities in a democratic legal state result in the loss of force of the existing Constitutional Tribunal Act, which is the majority of its provisions, being before the entry into force of the Act on the Status of Judges of the Tribunal and the Act on the organisation and procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal. The legislator introduces a completely new legal system governing the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. The 14-day period during which there will be no complete regulation concerning the Constitutional Tribunal, because only certain provisions of the 2016 Act on the status of judges of the Tribunal, the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Tribunal and the Introductory Act will be in force, are to be able to adapt to the new legal situation without having to take action on the basis of an act which is about to expire. This is also to prevent a collision between the former law and the implementing rules. At the same time, it should be stressed that, within 14 days of the publication of the Act, the implementing provisions, despite the lack of overall regulation, which guarantee the continuity of the functioning of the body and its organisational units, will be maintained and the powers of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal and of the employees will not be infringed. The proposed solution is intended to enable the situation in the Court of Justice of its activities to be settled and to bring the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal into legal order. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u430	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u431	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is the last chord of the concert on the Constitutional Court, but before we play it [[Joy in the Chamber]] ... [[A brass band.]] ...we should remember why we're here at all. Because during the elections Poles showed that they did not want to live in a country where they did not know who was responsible for what and how they were responsible. We didn't want to live in a country that only exists theoretically. We did not want to live in a country where the parliamentary majority did not respect who the nation had chosen as the head of our country. Unpleasant truths are better than pleasant delusions. Those who adopted the shameful law on the Court on 25 June 2015 and then, breaking the constitution, tried to choose with the mountain of his judges, still have the opportunity to apologize to Poles. Apologize only for your sins, not for our imaginary sins. [[Dude, six unconstitutional laws.]] Members of the PO and PSL who, in June and October of last year, broke the constitution, apologize for the original sin of all this commotion, for the sin of your pride and in moderation of power. [[Don't wave a finger at us.]] 24 May 2015 Poles showed where they would like to see a formal applicant for those projects - retired. But then you declared another war to the Poles because two days after the election, boom, second reading of the presidential project. Three days after the election, third reading. And you're complaining about the fast pace of work today? Shame on you. [[Dude, six sets.]] Today you are acting like wise men, but when Andrzej Duda received a document confirming the will of Poles, he appealed to the government and to the parliamentary majority, he asked you not to make changes in the system. He knew then that it was the only way to avoid unnecessary conflicts, but you behaved like the worst robbers. A month after the presidential election, you put a veil of shame on this House, desecrated the temple of democracy and showed the Poles where you have their opinion. [[Look who's talking.]] Luckily, you and me both. Moreover - and this is worth paying attention - before President Komorowski signed that disgraceful bill in the last dozen days of his office, he had announced the election for the last possible date. And he could even count on his fingers that the terms of all the judges end after he announced... [[Talk about this project.]] ...the term of the election. And that's almost two weeks after the election. You're the ones who wrote the law to specific people. Because let someone explain how the legal situation you set up was, for example, how. as many as three time limits within which candidates for judges shall be submitted. With lex specialis, of course, referring to the seats of those judges whose term was to end after the election, of which President Komorowski knew very well when he signed this bill. Or is that what the Court of State should do? That's it? [[Applause]] As long as the Sejm, when adopting the bill, could still have any doubts as to whether he was acting in accordance with the Constitution, President Komorowski, signing the bill, deliberately broke it. You also broke it, and you who, in a cowardly act, knew that in two weeks' time you would lose the election, knowing that Poles did not want you to disturb them any longer in life, you voted out in a faulty way for judges. As long as the original sin can be committed twice, you have done so. During the last session of the Sejm in that term, breaking the constitution, you were grasping at straws. And after the election, you tried to ruin the Poles another year. Because sharing Poles is something that you like best, something that even works out for you because it was your way of maintaining power. [[Applause]] This project aims to ensure that the Polish constitutional court returns to normal work. And it's not in your interest, it's in the interests of defending the rights and freedoms of Poles and Poles. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[As long as all the judges aren't on L4.]] Thank you very much. Cheers. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u432	Thank you very much. I just don't know if you've read this project because you haven't said a word to it. [[Applause]] Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform, please. The Sejm has agreed that there are five-minute statements in the discussion on this item, I recall.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u433	Dear Buddy! If we had a problem with the chord, then your pianist ripped off all the strings in the piano and ran off to L4. This is embarrassing. [[Applause]] [[He destroyed the piano.]] The piano stands and is not for use. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, we meet so that the PiS can pass a law changing the regime of the Constitutional Tribunal. You say, "The bill of repair, but everyone knows it's another bill breaking down, destroying the tribunal." It's weird how early it is. 20, but in terms of opinion - standard, no opinion on this law. What you are accomplishing, what you have achieved, Comrade Piotrowicz, prosecutor, is to make constructive changes during these 12 months - every 60 days another law on the Constitutional Court. You consistently destroy the principle of separation of powers, the principle of special separation of judicial authority from the other two. You are really destroying the tradition of Polish constitutionalism, the tradition of the Polish system, the 18th-century tradition, because what the Constitution said on May 3rd was that: "The judicial authority cannot be exercised either by the legislative authority or by the king, but by the magistrates, at that end established and chosen. You are moving away from the tradition, the Western tradition, which since the 18th century accompanied the Polish system. This is east, heading east. But this bill is a bottom line in lawmaking. This bill is a testimony to your inability, your inability to create, to make good rules. This is one big embarrassment. Here is a group of members of the PiS signing up under a system act repealing their own system act. You're repealing the article. 3 of the Law of 22 July 2016, not the Civil Platform Act, but the Law adopted by the PiS. The PiS after 130 days -- that's durability, that's the vitality of your system mechanisms -- repeals its own bill. That's not the kind of absurd thing you've ever seen. [[Applause]] You're liquidating the tribunal's office, the chief's position - we know what's going on, Pisieczy, Pisieczy, there's a bit of different positions - but you're not interested in the office working administrative staff, people who've been working hard for years. You don't care about their fate. You're also the first to introduce a corrupt rule. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 you propose that the judge may leave within one month of the entry into force of the Act in the state of rest. This is an extremely pathological provision, an immoral provision, there has not been such a provision in the last 26 years, maybe for communes, Mr Piotrowicz, such regulations were adopted, although probably more subtlely that authority, the PZPR-owska authority, advised. But you're reaching for final measures - financial incentives. This is not the end of absurdity. There is also a decision to entrust the President's duties to the President... by the President - maybe the President of PiS - with the countersignation of the Prime Minister. But of course there's no randomness. There is no choice of any criterion. This is the judge. a tribunal with the longest term of office in the general courts or in the central state administration in positions relating to the application of law. It would seem that the recipe is clear, and at first glance, it seems to be about you, Judge Przyłębska. But we also have a problem with your understudy judge, a judge from Muszyński. We wanted to ask him about his resume a year ago. You, Mr. District Attorney, prevented us from asking questions at the Justice Commission. The media reports that Judge Muszyński was doing a career at the State Security Office, perhaps the Intelligence Agency. Unfortunately, we do not know, because until now the Sejm has not been informed of who he has appointed as a double judge. Maybe it's about Judge Muszyński. Maybe it's a rule that the President of the Tribunal shouldn't be Judge Przyłębska at all, but the Judge understudy Muszyński. Because how do you verify your internship at a central government authority? UOP - if he was a UOP officer - is most likely under state administration. But this is an extremely pathological situation and a disgrace to you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Bureau of Studies and Studies stressed that frequent amendments to the Constitutional Court Act do not promote the sound and efficient functioning of the institution, and this way of action undermines the democratic rule of law, which includes the cooperation of the authorities and social dialogue. We must really do our best to do something that is not in line with the Constitution's preamble. You're doing it. But we need to introduce Eastern communist standards in a democratic state of law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what the Civic Platform will never agree to. The really weird thing is the epidemic, the escape to the L4 judges you've chosen. I'm sure a common gray citizen would have already had control of the ZUS, but you're making the caste of the new judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u434	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u435	On behalf of the Platform Club, I apply for the rejection of this scandalous and pathological bill in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u436	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Romanowski, Club Kukiz.15. [[Roman.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u437	Dear Marshal, my name is Romansky, there's
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u438	I'm sorry. I'm so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u439	Thank you. It's okay. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Presented parliamentary draft law Rules introducing the Law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are already, if it counts well, the Seventh Law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal in the current term of office of the Sejm. The Act provides for the expiry of the Act of 22 July this year. on the Constitutional Court, but also refers to a number of other laws relating primarily to the state administration. I am thinking here of the laws: the civil servants, the execution of the mandate of the Member and the Senator, the political parties, the limitation of the activities of public officials, the employees of the courts and the prosecution. As the previous speaker mentioned, Mr Brejza abolishes the Tribunal's office, appoints the Registry of the Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal. All employment relations of the staff of the Court's existing office will be terminated under this law. Ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be quite brief, and then I will proceed to the conclusion. According to our club, we can adopt another 20 laws next year, 2017, and we will not end this dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that all political forces in Poland, the main political forces, here I am thinking about the Law and Justice, the Civic Platform, the Modern, the Polish People's Party, of course to a greater or lesser extent... Here I look at the Polish People's Party with the greatest warmth, which, like our club, tried to end this really barren dispute, destroying the Polish state, the prestige of the Polish state. The fundamental and fundamental problem we are forgetting is a dispute concerning judges elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office and not sworn in by the President. The President does not have the legal capacity to swear them on judges at the moment, because he is now elected and elected and sworn to 15 judges. If the High House does not decide to resolve this dispute at constitutional level, this dispute will continue, ladies and gentlemen. At the moment, we have the situation that the current President of the Court, Professor Andrzej Rzepliński, is trying to select two candidates, in principle three candidates for the President, to make the election of the President. There is no such possibility because of the obstruction of part of the judges of the tribunal. I'm no longer getting into their health situation, whether it's actually dictated by it or not, but it's an action to drag in time to the entry into force of this law. On the other hand, I have the impression that the projectors did not assume one thing: that the same mechanism will be applied by the current majority of judges elected by the previous term of office and this dispute around the tribunal will escalate. Unfortunately, it will escalate, the tribunal will be without the president, and I suspect that from April next year even without the vice president of the tribunal. And again, the world's public opinion will be completely unnecessary in dealing with completely barren from the point of view of ordinary Poles dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal, because parliamentarians in the Polish Sejm are unable to agree and end this really embarrassing dispute around the tribunal. No law, even the best, is able to end this dispute. And with this less optimistic accent, I will end the presentation of the position of the Kukiz club15. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u440	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The last year was a year of heavy blows by the PiS and into democracy, and into Polish freedom. Last year was actually a relay of constitutional shame for PiS politicians. This is the year of the crawling coup, this is the year of the unlawful imposition of a new system. It was PiS politicians who destroyed the authority of the Constitutional Court and paralyzed its work. It was PiS politicians who began to restrict the freedom of assembly. PiS politicians allowed total, unlawful surveillance of all citizens both by the services and by the police actually without any judicial review. After the past 12 months, we can actually say one thing to PiS politicians: you break the constitution, you break the laws, but you don't break people's attachment to freedom, to the rule of law, to democracy. Your goal, of course, may be a state acting like Russia or Belarus, but for most citizens the ideal is a democratic state, free, not lawless and authoritarian murder. We will not allow you to bury Polish democracy and Polish freedom, even if you pass this last law and the next law on the Constitutional Court. For a year you have been driving Poland towards the abyss, and today you are actually giving up the last brakes. And even if you feel unpunished now, you can't avoid punishment. One day you'll stop ruling and every PiS politician who broke the constitution who broke the law will be held responsible for his actions. People will simply not forgive you for what you have done with Poland, and even if you manage to dismantle this institutional protection of the Polish Constitution, we will ask for its values in marches, demonstrations and courts. And the more the PiS will restrict freedom and democracy, the more the Poles and Poles will seek and reclaim this freedom. As Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki said, freedom is like air - it is valued and felt just when it is lacking. For a year now, citizens have been arriving every day, who value Polish freedom and Polish democracy even more. On behalf of the Poselski Club A modern motion to reject this law at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u442	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Member who represented the club Law and Justice said that it was time for normal work, but is it normal to elect a president as the term of office ends earlier, the President who is in office? Law and Justice invented the institution of the person performing the duties. That's what happened at the D.A.'s office in the case of the bill, remember? Almost all the prosecutors who run the D.A.'s office today, too. And there's a person here, too. A situation was created for the President that would allow him to choose the person who would run the tribunal on a temporary basis. After all, as the project was designed, it was not foreseen that three judges of the tribunal would get sick at the same time, and that the possibility that the judges of the tribunal would choose candidates would not be excluded. So what was done? A person was invented for duty. And this is unconstitutional for at least three reasons. From the fact that if the president can't or doesn't have one, he's a vice president or the oldest judge. In addition, the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. subjugation of the judicial authority, the election of the head of the tribunal, i.e. a specific court, by the President of the Council of Ministers, was invented here. In addition, there is a provision that does not have a general, abstract character, i.e. it can apply to any person, every candidate, every citizen, only to a specific person, because the conditions that must be met are so strict that we practically all know who it will apply to. There is little time, i.e. the threshold thresholds, please state, for this person to act as a substitute for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, which means that the President may and may, and may, perform. It's not enough, it's the only situation -- it's the only one -- it's the choice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The minority decides, not the majority, so five votes are enough. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u444	Thank you very much, Marshal. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position on the parliamentary draft law Rules introducing a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. It comes out, High Izbo, that today is the last chord of a wide-ranging action, which lasts a year, coordinated by the majority of the Sejm of the 8th term, aimed not only at dismantleing the Constitutional Tribunal, but de facto to take us back a few dozen years in terms of the achievements of this institution, to take us back to a state that is characterised by countries such as Belarus, like Russia, like Korea, where we do not pay much attention to what is actually happening with the state of the rules, constitutional regulations. I would like to start by referring to a fellow Member from the PiS who, in such harsh, loud, strong words, felt sorry for what had been done, what had been done. I was the only one who was thinking, listening to these arguments, that even if you assume that sometimes a very important state institution is imperfect, even if it is assumed that the person at the head of this institution - like every human being - will make a mistake, in a civilized country this institution does not break down. The former Civic Platform, today is the PiS, who knows who will go on, but Poland and the authorities, the administration should have a certain constancy. The person on whose grave you went recently to lay wreaths, to Wierzchosławice, Vincenty Witos, once said words that - I think - are worth mentioning today. She said this to the public authorities in particular, that Poland should last forever, that the Polish authorities should have a certain continuity and responsibility for the continuity of this power. Your actions absolutely do not take into account this very important principle. The authors of the project directly encourage the judges of the Tribunal to resign from their duties. It's a bit like, High Izbo, referring to that rule: if not with a stick, it's a carrot. I am not referring to Mr Carrot here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It is best for everyone to resign, leaving their seat to the political nominates of the Seym majority. You can't give in to such an impression. With regard to proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal, the Act provides for the operation of a new law, i.e. in accordance with the Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the draft in cases initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Organisation and Procedure Act shall be conducted on the basis of the principles laid down in that Law. Proceedings before the Court of Justice before the entry into force of the Law on Organisation and Procedure shall remain in force. The project also provides for the reorganisation of the work of the tribunal. That's already been mentioned. As of 1 January 2018, the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal will be wound up and the Constitutional Tribunal and the Office of the Legal Service of the Constitutional Tribunal will be established. According to the authors in the explanatory memorandum, it's about creating a rational structure. I don't think there's any doubt that it's really about cleaning this institution out of its own employees and replacing them with nominates with political keys. The special agent envisaged in the project as the winding-up officer of the Court's office will in fact cast the so-called tribunal. Misiewicz. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Like one of my previous speakers, Mr Romekowski - today, I think, it is particularly worth mentioning this - I regret that there was no desire, in the spirit of compromise and mutual respect, to solve this problem, that any gestures which, on the part of the Parliament's majority, as far as any agreement is concerned, were false gestures. It is a pity, because it was possible in the spirit of agreement to solve this problem, thus showing that the Polish Sejm can face these challenges in a civilised way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and unfortunately not in the way that this is happening today, among others. in connection with this bill. The PSL Members' Club does not see the possibility of supporting this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u446	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Circle of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u447	Marshal, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I've asked lawyers and my fellow constitutionalists to prepare me an opinion on this bill. And if it hadn't been for the rapporteur's speech, I would have referred to these various nonsensical provisions in substance. But, in fact, Mr Peterowicz's speech made me decide to change the nature of my speech. In short, the lawyers I asked speak about this project: It is a redundant and even harmful act for the Polish legal system. After Mr Peterowicz's speech, I would add that she is outrageous. In fact, so far I have tried to be elegant, parliamentaryly correct in the wording used for Mr Piotrowicz. It has been rare for me to say Mr Piotrowicz, more often I said Mr Piotrowicz, Mr rapporteur or Mr rapporteur. But after this speech today, after these quotes, the references to the emergency state, I want to make it clear: Mr. Prosecutor's Office... [[Voice from the room: Comrade.]] ...I know why I don't understand you, I know why we're all different in assessing the solutions you propose on behalf of the Law and Justice. Because in your martial law you thought that law was the law, it's the law of justice, that martial law is legal. You were accusing activists of solidarity. You've accused activists of solidarity. [[Applause]] [[You're gonna have a legal problem. You'll have a problem.]] I opposed it, you know? They stopped me, arrested me, put me in a hole. This is the difference between us - elementary, basic, from history, from the gut, from respect for freedom, from respect for the Republic of Poland and from respect for the efforts of many generations who fought for free Poland. And you were standing right where the zoo stood. That's what I'm trying to tell you. [[Applause]] quoting your authority as chairman. You were right where the zoo was. The Lord said, being part of this system, that the zombies who enter the Uncle and shoot the miners, act according to the law, because they are scumbags. And I'll tell you one thing... [[Are you okay?]] Yeah, I'm sober. But one thing I'm gonna say is, these guys are exactly the ones who made the decisions to shoot the miners back then... [[What are you talking about?]] ...who later closed Frasyniuk, who later made decisions on the pursuit of Popieluszko and who today say that the state of emergency in Poland justifies solutions that are outrageous. There's no other choice but to tell you one thing. Regardless of what the Constitutional Tribunal judgments are, whether you regard them as legal or illegal, the violation of the Constitution, this Constitution, is a violation of the Constitution. Not this tribunal, it'll be another verdict of your guilt. He's gonna punish you because you're responsible for breaking the Constitution. For violating the Constitution is the Court of State. And I hope that you, Mr. Prosecutor Peterowicz, and those who, as you ordered, raise their hands on your motion for this scandalous bill, will answer for it sooner rather than later. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u448	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Ireneusz Gaina, the Free and Solidarnia Members' Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, [[Voice from the room: We feel surprised.]] On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Protasiewicz, please do not use ad personam arguments if you do not have substantive arguments. Speaking of these insults before the moment before Mr Piotrowicz, which should not rain... [[The voice from the room: Excellent.]] ...in the Seym. On behalf of the Members' Circle of Free and Solidarni, I present my position on the draft parliamentary law, which introduces a law on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Game in the O.R.]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u450	I would like to ask for peace in the courtroom and not to disturb the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u451	...please, because I can't concentrate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u452	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u453	Introductory rules... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u454	I ask Members to remain calm. [[How can you be calm?]] But you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u455	The introductory provisions on which we are beginning to work in plenary are intended to be a specific buckle for applicants, which will ensure consistency, transparency and proper implementation of two laws: on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. By comprehensively addressing issues related to the entry into force of the rules on organisation, activity, procedure and the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in a single draft, there is hope that, until the end of the dispute in this case, it is closer than further - the conclusion that the Constitutional Tribunal will be able to work freely under the new direction in full, 15-person composition, restoring its lost credibility. Due to the permanent, premeditated actions that violate the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the Constitutional Tribunal Act itself, not by anyone else, but by the President of the Court of Justice of Prof. Andrzej Rzepliński, the draft submitted requires, in my opinion, more detailed, casuistic regulations which will not allow for an extension or even any interpretation of the rules. This will allow for a better, efficient organisation of the work of the tribunal both now and in the future, already under new direction. The most media noise appeared around the provision of the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. pursuant to which a Judge of the Tribunal whose term of office began before the date of entry into force of the Act on the Status of Judges of the Tribunal may, within one month of his entry into force, declare to the President of the Tribunal that, in the course of his term of office, he is going to retire as soon as the new rules for the performance of the duties of Judge of the Tribunal laid down in the Act on the Status of Judges have been implemented. There were voices that it was a regulation of a corrupt, immoral nature, and finally that its adoption would be a disgrace to Parliament. [[He's a disgrace.]] We believe that these voices are unfounded. It is important to remember that we are talking about a right that can be used but does not need to be used at all. As the applicant rightly points out in the explanatory memorandum, the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal provides for new rules for the performance of existing obligations, e.g. the disclosure of the statement of property, which constitutes a change of the rules on which the judges of the Tribunal of the current term of office were elected as members of the Tribunal. This is a restrictive change in relation to the existing provisions, which constitutes a change in the conditions concerning inter alia. restrictions on the right to privacy in relation to the public function for which the judges agreed to apply. It is therefore appropriate in our view that such a right should be conferred on the judges of the tribunal. We trust that the judges of the Tribunal elected during the previous term of the Sejm, who deserve respect and recognition for their scientific and judicial achievements, have no intention of forcing legal or non-legal means to go to rest. If such pressures arise, I can assure the High House that the Circle of the Free and Solidarnia Members will strongly oppose this. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Time to clean up the Polish country and complete the process of anarchization... [[Oh, please, order.]] ...to complete the process of anarchy of the Constitutional Tribunal. In our opinion... [[It's just like WRON, yeah.]] ...the bill submitted after the entry into force of the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal and the Act on the status of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have the chance to do so by restoring... [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, I do not believe.]] ...the constitutional order for the functioning of the judiciary in Poland... [[It's like Jaruzelski.]] ...constitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u456	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u457	I was too young, sir. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u458	Thank you very much, sir. 19 Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up for any more questions? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, will ask the first question. There is no Member. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club. There isn't any either. Mr. Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform. Question time - 1 minute. [[Maybe one and a half, Marshal.]] One minute. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Okay, okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, this is the annual show that you started to finish the tribunal so you could have full power in the state. And this art. The 10 you're proposing in this bill is a clear violation of the constitution. The judges of the Sejm are elected for a nine-year term, as stated by the Constitution in the article. 194, and you want the state to force them to leave because you want to throw yourself at the whole tribunal. You want to be like the housekeepers force the judges, torture them, and say, go away, we'll take everything, we'll manage without you. But that's not what democracy is about. The Court is from looking at the hands of the authorities, especially the executive authority, because the tribunal protects our freedoms. And I hope, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that he will guard even if you want to own him in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u460	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u461	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the Member who, although he has falsely presented the position of Law and Justice, has been so flaming. One of the symbols, such bad symbols of the first year of the rule of law and justice, will be the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal. Yes, destruction, because if this law comes into force and we are all aware that it will come into force, then the Constitutional Tribunal of an independent body which, by definition, upholds the law will become a subsidiary, subordinate, and not a legislative or executive authority, but a party authority, which is unacceptable in a democratic state of law. It must be said that effectively, step by step, by presenting further draft laws, you have demolished the state of the Constitutional Tribunal, and today it is the work of destroying the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal that finds its legislative finale. But that's not all. Mr. President's failure to take his oath from three legally elected judges, not to publish judgments in the official journal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The introduction of a judge who worked at the Constitutional Court indicates all this, for the special services or for the simultaneous illness of three judges - all of this weakens the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal. And in order to meet the requirements, I will ask the question: Are you satisfied with this? Is that what this is about? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u462	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u463	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll ask you a substantive question about the organizational changes in the Court. In the explanatory memorandum, you indicated the need to make these changes as regards the liquidation of the Tribunal's office. You indicate that these changes are supposed to improve the functioning of the Court, optimise the organisational and administrative activities and ensure that the subsidiary of the Constitutional Tribunal is professional. Tell me, on what basis do you say so? What does the current support apparatus of the Constitutional Tribunal have in itself a non-professional? Please give specific examples, not clichés. Besides, what you present in practically every law is an attempt to own another institution of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u464	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Marshal Barbara Dolniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u465	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the person acting president. What argument was the basis for such a legal solution? If he doesn't have a president, he can't do his job, we have a vice president's institution, we have a judge who's the oldest. What was the argument? Isn't it that we already have a vice president elected before, and here you can choose any person you think the president is supposed to be doing? And why is there no time frame for the period during which the person acting as President will have this function? In this way, ladies and gentlemen, the person performing this function can carry it out forever. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u466	Thank you very much. Now I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u467	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The provisions of the proposal provide that the President may not appoint the President of the Tribunal from among the candidates submitted to him by the General Assembly, which in turn will enable the President to appoint the President of the Tribunal. President of the Tribunal. At the same time, in the explanatory memorandum, the projectors themselves acknowledge that the President must appoint the President of the Tribunal from among the candidates designated by the General Assembly. This constitutional standard is to be preserved. Since you yourself claim that the President is obliged to appoint the President of the Tribunal in response to the presentation of candidates by the General Assembly, on what constitutional basis do you grant the President the right to verify the correctness of the operation of the General Assembly? Which provision of the Constitution states that the President may refuse to appoint the President of the Constitutional Tribunal? Isn't it that you're falling into some kind of schizophrenia, on the one hand, claiming that the president has to appoint a president, [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the other hand, by introducing a statutory provision which shows that it does not have to? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u468	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u469	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! It must be said explicitly, Members and Members of the PiS, that by destroying the Constitutional Tribunal, you raise your hand on every Polish woman and on every Pole, because the Constitutional Tribunal did not defend the interests of this or any other political option, did not defend this or any other ideology. The Constitutional Tribunal defended Poles and Poles. [[Applause]] I know you think history is over, but every power is over. Your power will end, too. And after this power you will be remembered in the history of Poland as those who were an accident at work, 4-year-old, short-term, in building a strong and law-abiding state. Mr applicant, I have such questions. In the justification of this project, you indicate that the granting of the aid was granted. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall ensure the continuity of the institutions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Please tell me why this function cannot be performed by the vice-president of the tribunal, who, in accordance with the article. 194 of the Constitution ensures the continuity of the institution's operation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u470	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u471	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by thinking that the opposite of the rule of law is a police state. We're going that way, of course. The authoritarian state is always an infantile, immature state. That's what he said. That's what Gombrowicz was thinking. You, of course, do not read Gombrowicza, do not want to listen to those who are sensitive to what is the essence of society. You don't like the democratic state, you like the authoritarian state. I would like to tell you that we are coming to the final, actually, with our democracy. I'm not gonna go into detail here, but I'm gonna tell you that you have a state-of-the-art Sejm, a state-of-the-art Senate, perhaps soon-to-be-deputy judges. I hope not. You have your president, your services and the media. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and complete control of the Constitutional Tribunal. The goal is the full power of Postwar Warden Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u472	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I had a question prepared, but let me ask you another one. The Lord is 30 years older than me; I was born in 1982, you - in 1952. I would like to say that in these 30 years of your life experience you have experienced more than I have experienced various systems of power. I only know democracy, and you know totalitarian systems very well, and you know that power is corrupting. You know that power is corrupting, and the state is already in full executive power, and you want to take over judicial authority. Why? But shouldn't we all care about the welfare of the Republic of Poland, to go into history as those who are building, not those who are destroying, who are destroying our democratic structures? Really think about it, because we should all have one good goal in common. This should be Poland's objective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think you've lost that target somehow. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u474	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u475	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four questions here, and I'd like to start with the first one. How many employees of the Constitutional Tribunal will lose their jobs after the entry into force of this law? Two. What is the purpose of this bill? Third. Will this dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal end, or will it continue after this law has been introduced? Four. The Kukiz Club15 submitted a draft law on the Constitutional Court. Why isn't he being processed to this day? This is the only alternative in this situation. The point is to get her to explain herself and set up a new tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u476	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This project is the last chord - but the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal. Before I ask a question, I would like to express my opposition and protest against the speech of the representative of the PiS Parliamentary Club. Speaking on behalf of the club, he did not refer in any way to the draft law, and in a scandalous way he insulted not only the High House, the Polish Parliament, but also Poles in particular. It was a disgraceful performance. How embarrassing are you? Instead of making a substantive statement on the project, you were throwing the invectives and speaking out scandalously. After all, this is your project, which is being followed by a fast legislative path, without any consultation with the sovereign, on whom you are constantly calling unjustly, I declare, without any opinions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the government's position on this matter? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u478	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u479	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant's representative. Why are you pouring water on the opposition mill? Look at the jury. In the benches... [[Who are you?]] Easy, easy. In Po and Modern benches crowded, bustling. Supposedly in a moment we'll see, we'll read their outstanding speeches either on TVN or in the Wyborcza Gazeta. [[What's this?]] You might ask yourself whether it is the newspaper that creates these questions, whether they arise in the heads of Members, but never mind. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, this is the seventh... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please don't disturb me. This is the seventh such bill this year. You're acting a little bit like a spoiled kid who shows a cat to a dog and squeals a dog with a cat. [[What?]] Think about it. It's just that the Poles are tired of this whole dispute. I don't know if you've noticed that. [[He's a wise man.]] The opposition enjoys every project. The question is, what has really changed in the last few dozen days, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That you're basically turning your own proposal upside down? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That dog with the cat... where did you read it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u480	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Caesar Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u481	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The revolution of Solidarity gave freedom and democracy to Poles. Thanks to the Solidarity, we were able to construct a state system different from that which was known in the Polish People's Republic. We then rejected the principle of uniformity of power, which assumed that the Sejm could do anything. The system of state authorities is based on the principle of division of power. Today, by destroying the Constitutional Tribunal, the PiS destroys our common achievements because the destruction of the tribunal, an important judicial authority, undermines the constitutional system of the state. Tyranny is a system in which power goes as far as it can until it encounters resistance. You will encounter resistance. I have a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the representative of the applicants. Do you remember that, after the introduction of the martial law, the communists offered Polish patriots to leave the country, offer to go to the West? When I read the proposal in the article. 10, it comes to mind to associate with that disgraceful offer of Communists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u482	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u483	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One thing is particularly worrying about this dismantling of the democratic system by PiS politicians outside the dismantling itself - because, as Aristotle said, for two things to happen, there is still a third, for example, common space or time - namely the language you use, for example. justifying in principle the liquidation of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal, if not the liquidation of the Tribunal, the fact that you are able through a lying language to basically justify everything. I'm afraid you'd be a great material in a time of totalitarianism for people who are extremely hot to defend those ideas, because everything you can say, everything you can turn upside down, everything you can do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] insult the way in which independence is treated or in the legal dimension. And one more thing. Lenin used to say that the most important thing is staff. I take it you're decommissioning the Constitutional Court's law firm because you want to bring your people there in lazy? But, for God's sake, one day it's your turn. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u484	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u485	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification for the project, we find that the application of the new rules will not affect the complaint and the situation of the initiating parties. What makes you say that? In our view, this will affect the situation of citizens who have brought constitutional complaints, because such a short vacathio legis will not allow the application of new rules to the complaints brought. Citizens will not have enough time to adapt properly to this procedure. Second question to the young Member of the PiS. Wasn't he afraid of his friend getting a tumor like he was gesturing on that platform? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't know what to call this relationship. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I want my friend out of a mistake. The stronger the gesture, the stronger the arguments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u486	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Rząsa, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u487	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the Watchdog Civic Network publishes uncomfortable materials for the PiS, Mrs Pawłowicz comments: The Insolent Civic Network Watchdog. Where have these dogs been sleeping for the last eight years? When the same Watchdog Civic Network - acting, I remind you, for the sake of public disclosure, political life - publishes a list of civil contracts, the prosecutor's companion immediately uses this to brutally attack the staff of the Constitutional Tribunal's Office in order to accuse them of incompetence and lack of qualifications to meet the tasks assigned to the office. What did these people do to you that you're charging them with such serious charges? Have you checked at least one of these contracts to establish that? Or did someone else finally write it, and you just signed off on it, as you explain today your disgraceful conduct from the time of martial law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u488	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Kinga Gajewska-Płochocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u489	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth mentioning once again who writes the laws demolishing the Constitutional Tribunal. Many times all arguments have been made here and the whole resume has been presented, but it's worth repeating, because there's not many people who can learn it in schools, learn what it was, what it is the truth. Stanisław Piotrowicz, Public Prosecutor of the Polish People's Republic. My peers don't remember that time, but we were just learning from books. In the Polish People's Republic people were imprisoned, beaten, murdered, such as Grzegorz Przemyk. They took people's dignity, they put them in prison. That was the Polish People's Republic. And bad people were behind it. Today, the law changes the D.A. of the Polish People's Republic. Today, heroes such as Józef Pinior are arrested, such as Gen. Zbigniew Ścibor-Rylski, the hero of the Warsaw Uprising, are squawking with the IPN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] People like Lech Wałęsa who ripped us out of the clutches of the Polish People's Republic are being removed from their textbooks. What's the giggle of history, Mr. District Attorney? It's just mean. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u490	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u491	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A completely new and peculiar institution appears in the project, namely the position of a judge acting as President of the Tribunal. I would like to ask the applicant what other European legislation has in its resource a similar institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u492	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question is Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u493	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna play bon mots and stuff like that. He suggested that, since it is late, I would invite the Member to dinner to take the bill with him and in this way withdraw it, because it would end the problem at least with this bill. But my question is different. My question is, do you have a script, then what? Because speeding up the apparatus of the Constitutional Tribunal, I mean the staff, corrupting the judges, if you succeed and give way, requires further steps. Is there a script, then what? Once there's no more Constitutional Court, what's next? So my question is, do you think about the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u494	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members asking questions has run out. I would ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u495	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If anyone thinks he's gonna insult me, he's gonna beat me out of my panth, he's in deep error. On the other hand, those who use insults against me without knowing my past will one day be very ashamed of their words. I'm not going to explain myself because I don't have what it takes, but there are undoubtedly consequences for abuse. [[Member King Gajewska-Płochocka: You still put us in jail for telling the truth, right?]] So I will start with what has so upset Mr Protasiewicz. He was appalled by words that were nothing but an art quote by me. 230 constitutions, so if it's an article. 230 of the constitution has been so appalled, I dare say that Mr Protasiewicz disagrees with the constitution he is waving every day. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know how your friends and your colleagues feel, who have some degree of history like me because they were born at that time. I don't know how you feel, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, when you use certain titles at my address, I don't know how your senator Mieczysław Augustyn feels, by the way, a member of the Patriotic Movement of the Rebirth of Poland... [[The National Rebirth, not Poland.]] ...and so the adjutant general Jaruzelski at that time, how you feel the first secretary of the Central Committee Marcin Święcicki, how it feels to Mr Andrzej Olechowski and many, many others, who are sitting here among you. How are they? [[The sanctimonious opponents were kept at home, and you accused them!]] But for those words, you will be answered. [[Author of the indictment of Piotrowicz Stanisław. A convergence of names?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u496	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u497	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u498	Everyone at all, please calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u499	Sir, you will be very surprised because you are based on false documents. [[The IPN is based on the untrue? Mistake in your case. Surprising.]] [[Member Krzysztof Brejza shows a photo of the document on the laptop screen]] [[Please.]] You'll see soon enough, you'll soon feel the same way those reporters who attributed me to conducting an investigation, and how surprised they were when I said I wasn't conducting this investigation. As it is impossible, for 10 years the newspapers have been writing about it. And I say, "I didn't drive." Then why didn't you explain it? Because I have no obligation to explain myself to everyone that I am not a camel. [[Aren't you?]] They went like I asked them to, and they reached into the files, and they saw it wasn't my name. It is the journalists who are required to see how reliable the charges are against me. I don't want to answer false charges, but there's going to be a time when I'm going to do it, and you're going to feel as much as those reporters who went and checked, and they saw that someone else was actually investigating that my name wasn't even there. [[Nobody's talking about driving. Author of the indictment of Piotrowicz Stanisław.]] And that's not true either. Look at the file and you'll see, because these documents are in the IPN. [[Falsified documents on your case.]] You'll see that there were other prosecutors in this case, not me, and I've already told you many times... [[Another Stanisław Piotrowicz, the founder of the indictment.]] ...and say it again. But today's invectives at my address are an expression of state of complete powerlessness, lack of arguments, because I did not hear, except for a few cases, any arguments about legal solutions. In particular, you say that the disease of judges destroys authority, because what this tribunal looks like when three judges are sick. [[Pestilence.]] [[Epidemic.]] The problem isn't with the judge's illness. The problem is that President Rzepliński has been breaking the constitution and breaking the rules for a year. It is the violation of the Constitution and the violation of the rules in this case that in an unlawful manner it does not allow the general assembly of judges who have the right and the obligation to attend this assembly. If he allowed all the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to attend the meeting, the absence of sickness would still allow the quorum to be maintained. Dear State, the General Assembly of the Constitutional Tribunal should be attended by all judges of the Court, i.e. 15, while the Act assumed that there could be random accidents, such as the fact that three judges were ill... [[Voice from the room: And the president.]] ...and therefore these three absentees continued to allow them to proceed in accordance with the law, because there would be judges 12, and the bill says that at least 10. This was due to the action of the President of Rzepliński, following the violation of the Constitution and the violation of the laws, no general meeting was held which could appoint candidates for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[The president's guilty. He didn't take it.]] You're telling me... [[Cheaters.]] ...that art. 10 is a disgraceful Communist proposal, and do you know this article? Those who are screaming so hard, or are familiar with the article. Ten? I mean, it's art. Ten doesn't talk about anything but a certain judge's right. He'll either want to or he won't want to use it. Why did this recipe come up? Ladies and gentlemen, we have introduced the disclosure of property claims. At the time, there was a discussion that the introduction of open declarations of property restricts citizens' rights and freedoms. Okay, and that's what I was talking about, that's a kind of limitation. However, the Constitutional Tribunal also referred to this restriction and stated, but with regard to civil servants who include certain positions, that this restriction cannot be treated in terms of restrictions on civil rights and freedoms. Not everyone has to assume a function. If this kind of restriction does not suit him, he does not have to undertake this function. But we are dealing with a situation where the principle of disclosure of property claims is introduced. as it were, judges are present during their term of office. Therefore, they did not have this possibility: I do not want to be a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal because I am not comfortable with this kind of restriction. They didn't have the choice, because the solution to the open statements comes into force now, at that time. Therefore, it is possible that if someone does not want such restrictions, they may benefit. I don't think the harm solution is. But he doesn't have to use it because his term of office is continuous, nine years old, so he has the full right to remain until the end of his term of office, because it's his right. There were not so many questions, but there were several speeches from the Kukiz club15. The members of the Kukiz club15 raise the issue of constitutional changes that this project, perhaps good, will not resolve the conflict. That's why it's a skeptical approach. They claim that the conflict will be resolved if we accept this project that Kukiz has submitted15. We don't mind this project, but we're looking real. This project involves a change of constitution. As you can see, there is currently no majority in this House that would be willing to make constitutional changes. First of all, this is one of the circumstances for which we do not work, I think, on this project. You say, "Why reorganize the office?" I've talked about this before, but because it might have slipped my mind, so I'll remind you again. In a small number of offices - a few for this type of institution - there are nine directors, ladies and gentlemen of the state. Don't you think nine directors are a little much? Once these directors are reorganized, there will be two. [[Poland is a great country.]] After all, these are stories important also from the point of view of budgetary expenditure. After all, it is worth noting what I have repeatedly emphasized. We are at the protection of the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Who's standing?]] We stand in the position of guaranteeing the independence of the judge, because this is a constitutional requirement, we respect that. We respect the principle of the finality of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[You're publishing right now?]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's time to take it. Considering that not every position is a judgment. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You say it doesn't matter whether the tribunal is properly filled or not. It doesn't matter. [[You can't listen to that.]] It doesn't matter that he should recognize in full, because if the President thinks that five judges are enough, it could be five judges. Ladies and gentlemen, what would you say if one day the Marshal of the Sejm said, "Why don't we change the constitution?" There is no qualified majority required, but he would say, like the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, that there is a higher power, so we will change the constitution by a simple majority. [[And we'll put out the Members' seats.]] Would you accept that? 'Cause I don't, 'cause I don't. Because that would be a manifest violation of the constitution. And that's how the President of the Constitutional Court behaves today. It is regrettable that this situation was brought about by the Constitutional Tribunal under the authority of President Andrzej Rzepliński and with your participation. And why did that happen? Because he's just identifying with you. And that's the main reason. If you are talking today about the politicisation of the Constitutional Tribunal, what do you say about the political speeches of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal in the media? After all, this is a clear violation of the constitutional principle of apoliticity of judges. The judges are to be apolitical and impartial. In the meantime, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal has become political, as have some other judges. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are transitional provisions, because the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, although he had the opportunity to convene a general meeting, to appoint candidates for president and vice-president and to present to the President, so far he has not done so. Moreover, and from the statements of the president, the vice president, it appears that what took place yesterday was indeed not a general assembly because it was not. In order to be a general assembly, certain legal criteria would have to be met. He was accused of why there was no time frame to perform his duties. After all, this is due to the ignorance of the text of the bill. The Act expressly states that, within 1 month, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal will be required to convene a general meeting, appoint candidates and present them to the President. If the President of the Constitutional Tribunal is appointed, at this moment the mission of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall end, and therefore it is not true that the statement which has been made here in these questions is that there are no limits and that it may always be. This is the consequence of an inaccuracies with the project. I will not refer to different historical circumstances, but also to a good case outside the invectives, except for the empty word, I have not heard a particular argument, and I have not heard it for many months now, a specific argument, which would consist in breaking the constitution and breaking the law by my group. On the other hand, you have never once hit your breasts that the cause of the whole conflict around the Constitutional Tribunal was the violation of the Constitution by the Civic Platform and its coalitioner. And that's what you have to say with all your power. Why did you do that? Why did you break the constitution and throw yourself at the Constitutional Court? Because you wanted to take over the Constitutional Tribunal, because you filled the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal with heightened powers, which you entered into the powers of the future parliament. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, look at yourselves for once in the mirror that you have caused this conflict. You've entered the powers of the future parliament. You have done what was unacceptable, and today you have the audacity to make accusations against those who want to bring the Constitutional Tribunal into compliance with the law, to depoliticize this institution, because you have involved President Rzepliński in politics, you have involved him in politics, and he has admitted himself in his public speeches to his closeness to the Civic Platform and is now becoming the leading politician of this group. After all, this is an abnormal situation. Would anyone like to be tried in common courts by a judge who has spoken earlier about his case? And President Rzepliński is all about and tells what he thinks about draft laws that have not yet been passed. It's unacceptable, isn't it? The judge of the Constitutional Tribunal on the bill shall speak in judgment, not before the case is heard. Would anybody like to know the next day of the judge's lawsuit: your lawsuit is invalid, you're wrong, but okay, we're gonna proceed. And then he will actually say that the plaintiff was wrong. It would be a scandal. This must not be done, and President Rzepliński behaves in a similar way. And we have to cut it, we have to cut it. The President of the Tribunal must remain apolitical and impartial. Dear Member States, among the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in October 2015, they would all be appointed by the Civic Platform. We don't want that. That's when you broke the pluralism that the different parliaments elected the next judges. And you have to bore it, as you can see, to tell you. You're saying we're destroying the state? Ladies and gentlemen, who said of this - the prominent minister of your government - that Poland exists only theoretically? Then how can you destroy a theoretical state? We are the theoretical state. [[Applause]] We restore the rightful place to the state institutions. We restore their respect and prestige. But we need to clear them of the mess you brought in. A little restraint in all these invectives. But I understand, you've had no argument. You've ruled false, slanderous accusations against me. I can handle it. Why am I holding on? Because I know I'm doing a good job, defending democracy, defending the constitution, and that's why I have that strength. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u500	Thank you, sir. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] Here you go, Member with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u501	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal proposal so that Mr Piotrowicz can once again reflect on what he was denying just a moment ago. You mentioned that, for example, President Rzepliński makes a tour of the media. And what else does Judge Przyłębska do, greeting every media in the morning just after her conference? She doesn't even perform her duties as judge of the Constitutional Court, she's holding a press conference at the Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] He doesn't do his basic duties as a judge. Are you talking about President Rzepliński judging the laws before they're published? The fact that the documents go to the Constitutional Court, the law, before they are passed as non-constitutional, is a pan-European standard. And that's what the Venice Commission was talking about. You have to draw from good standards. You're saying the P.O.A. reached for five judges. Yes, it reached five judges, but you did exactly the same thing. You chose five judges, too. You know what you do... [[Voice from the room: Don't run away.]] Don't leave, don't run away like a coward in this room, please have the courage to listen, just like I did to you. I listened to it all the way to the end. [[You can't listen to such nonsense.]] At this point, I am making a substantive comment on what you said. Five judges have chosen PO [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's the charge. And you did exactly the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u502	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u503	You have also chosen five judges from the Constitutional Tribunal. [[I don't have a special bonus for listening to this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u504	Thank you. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u505	All you had to do was listen to the Constitutional Court's judgment...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u506	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u507	...so there wouldn't be a war.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u508	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u509	And the source of the dispute is that you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u510	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u511	...the president doesn't take the oath...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u512	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u513	...from three properly elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u514	It was more of a corrigendum, not a formal conclusion. Please, Mr Brejza, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u515	Mrs. Marshal! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I submit a formal application for a break and to familiarize the escaped prosecutor of the martial law of Piotrowicz with this material. This is a page on December 13, 1981, the name of Piotrowicz Stanisław, the founder of the indictment in the case of Mr Pikul, the indictment of 24 September 1982. Please respond to this during your break.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u516	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u517	Perhaps there's been a terrible mistake, and it's not the U.S. Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u518	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u519	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u520	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion either. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. Thank you very much. Change in the lead. You're welcome, Marshal. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] We proceed with the examination of item 42. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and some other laws (print No 1048). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This time something absolutely seems uncontroversial. This draft law aims to ensure the effective implementation of Regulation No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. That Regulation shall apply from 18 January 2017. The EU Regulation aims to make it easier for creditors to execute their claims by obtaining collateral in the debtor's bank account irrespective of the Member State in which the account is held and under the same conditions in all Member States. So-called. The European Account Preservation Order will provide an alternative to the equivalent national account collateral measures and its additional advantage will be that the order issued in one Member State will be automatically recognised and enforceable in the other Member States. In addition, it will be a significant facilitation for creditors to obtain information on the debtor's bank account in certain situations for the purpose of issuing a European Preservation Order in such an account. The regulation obliges Member States to create an effective mechanism to facilitate access to such information. As is well known, European Union regulations are directly applicable in the Member States and generally do not require transposition. However, certain provisions of this Regulation need to be developed and supplemented in Polish law. Therefore, the project prepared by the Ministry of Justice and presented today introduces amendments primarily to the Code of Civil Procedure. In particular, these changes consist in: firstly, of the conclusion that, in the field not regulated by the Regulation and in the provisions added to it, c.p.c. the European Account Preservation Order procedures shall apply, secondly, to the determination of the jurisdiction of the court in matters for issuing a European Account Preservation Order in Poland, thirdly, to the determination of the authorities competent in Poland to take different actions in proceedings concerning a European Account Preservation Order, including the indication that the Bank Account Information Authority will be the Minister of Justice in Poland, fourthly, to determine the type of appeal available from the court's decision to issue a European Bank Account Preservation Order and to rule on the challenge of other decisions taken as a result of the recognition of the protection measures provided for in the Regulation and fifth and lastly, to indicate that the European Bank Account Preservation Order originating in a court of another Member State constitutes in Poland the title of protection on the basis of which enforcement proceedings may be initiated without the need to obtain exequatur. The amendments to the law on bailiffs and executions, which this draft also introduces, essentially extend the scope of the provisions on bailiff activities in enforcement proceedings and safeguard proceedings for the execution of European freezing orders. In turn, the amendments provided for in the Banking Law and the Act on cooperative savings and credit banks provide for access to information of banking secrecy to the Minister of Justice in so far as it is necessary to carry out the tasks of information authorities in accordance with the Regulation and specify the procedure in which the Minister will obtain that information. Information will be obtained from central information about accounts in the form of so-called. aggregate information which may also include information on non-natural holders. According to the draft law, the law should enter into force on 18 January 2017, i.e. on the date on which the Union Regulation will apply. It seems that this term is available, so without any delay we will do what we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u522	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u523	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the government draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act and certain other laws, together with the draft implementing act, print No 1048. The aim pursued by the Council of Ministers in the preparation of the project must be to ensure the effective implementation of Regulation No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 laying down the procedure for a European Account Preservation Order in order to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. This regulation is intended to enable creditors to obtain and secure their claims in the debtor's bank account under the same conditions in all Member States, regardless of where the account is held. As you know, according to the article. In principle, the 288 Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union applies directly to the Member States. In this case, however, we share the view that it is necessary to amend certain provisions of Polish law, as well as to introduce new regulations, without which proper and effective implementation of the regulation will not be possible. Therefore, we consider it justified to amend and supplement the Code of Civil Procedure, and also in the Bank Law, the Law on cooperative savings and credit registers, the Law on bailiffs and executions and the Law on judicial costs in civil matters. We agree that the bill under consideration will facilitate the creditor's recovery of claims by creating an additional instrument to safeguard claims which are important in cross-border cases in particular, while the debtor will impede his escape from execution while ensuring that his interests are protected. The terms of the proposed regulation in the Code of Civil Procedure are provisions on the issuing by the Polish court of a European order to secure a bank account and execute such an order in Poland. They argue that the Ministry of Justice is obliged to provide information on the debtor's bank accounts located in Poland. Nor does it raise any objections to entrusting bailiffs with the execution of the European Account Preservation Order. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I declare that the club will support further work on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u524	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch will speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u525	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on printing No. 1048, which regulates the introduction of a European freezing order. This is an extremely important initiative in an era of developing globalisation and developing business-to-business trade relations. This is an extremely necessary regulation that responds to the challenges that occur in the age of globalisation, namely the recovery of claims not only in the territory of your country but also in the territory of the debtor's residence. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club at this stage raises no objections to the printing presented by the Minister and requests that he be referred to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u526	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u527	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on printing no. 1048, which, as the Minister has pointed out, is a non-controversial print. It is about introducing a freezing order into the Polish legal status in the bank account, which has already been indicated in the positions of my previous speakers. At a time of globalisation, not so much as the common market and the freedom to exchange goods, services are also appropriate to complement the legal situation with the possibility of effective recovery of charges, including cross-border ones. Therefore, since this project is not controversial, the Kukiz Club15 will recommend to its Members the support of this project. Let me also draw your attention and, in principle, commend the projectors for having regard to the fact that this regulation enters into force in mid-January, that we are dealing with it in good time. It's good practice. I hope that in the future, you will also ensure that we adjust Polish law within the prescribed period, so that it is not so that there are delays and, as a result, we will direct the wrong interest of the EU institutions. So we're glad we're doing this before it's too late. As I said, the Kukiz Club will recommend supporting this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u528	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch will speak on behalf of the Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u529	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. My previous speaker thanked the Minister for submitting this proposal as early as possible. Unfortunately, the draft law in question constitutes a code submission. According to Art. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure The first reading of the project may take place not earlier than 14 days after the publication of the draft. As far as this bill is concerned, it did not happen. Marshal Kuchciński had to apply a legal form, considering it ad hoc as a law implementing European law. It is a pity, especially since this submission, as my predecessors have said here, is not controversial unlike other laws of law and justice, since it concerns the amendment of national legislation to ensure the effective implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure and to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. The implementation of the Regulation will enable creditors to secure their claims in the debtor's bank account on an equivalent basis irrespective of the country in which the account is held. It should be stressed that obtaining a European Account Preservation Order in one Member State will be effective in other Member States without the need for a separate procedure. The fact that the same rules will apply both to bank accounts maintained by banks and to cooperative savings and credit banks deserves approval. This was the subject of controversy, but at the stage of the agreement and consultation was introduced into the project. Therefore, it is very important that government projects should, however, be subject to a proper review procedure, as in this project we have been able to see. In addition, an important element in the effective ability of creditors to secure their claims is the possibility to obtain information on the debtor's bank accounts for the purpose of issuing a European freezing order. Under Polish conditions, he will do this - the Minister of Justice has already been mentioned here. In addition to amending the law, the Code of Civil Procedure also concerns amendments to the law on bailiffs and executions, the Banking Law, the Law on judicial costs in civil matters and the Act on cooperative savings and credit registers. Like I said, it's a non-controversial project, hence the Posel Club. Modern requests that he be referred to the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u530	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u531	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to present our position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and some other laws. This proposal aims to ensure the effective implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. The Regulation entered into force in July 2014 and is to apply from 18 January next year. Although regulations of the European Union are in principle directly applicable in the Member States, it is necessary to amend certain provisions of Polish law and introduce new regulations, without which proper implementation of the Regulation would be impossible. The matter affected by the regulation is so broad that it is necessary to amend the Civil Procedure Code. According to the draft, the creditor will be able to secure his claims in the debtor's bank account under the same conditions irrespective of the State in which the account is held. European Account Preservation Orders issued in one Member State will be automatically recognised and enforced in another Member State without having to initiate a separate procedure. Under Polish law, this applies not only to bank accounts but also to accounts maintained by cooperative savings and credit banks, as has already been mentioned. On the other hand, the execution of such safeguards will take place on the basis of the rules adopted in the Member State for similar measures - in Poland it is the seizure of a bank account - with changes resulting from the Regulation. The creditor will be able to obtain an order before the opening of legal proceedings, as well as at any stage of the proceedings until the judgment or approval or the conclusion of a judicial settlement has been given, and after the creditor has obtained a decision requiring the debtor to pay the creditor's claim. A significant facilitation for creditors is the possibility to obtain information on the debtor's bank accounts for the purpose of issuing a European Preservation Order in such an account. The Regulation obliges Member States to create a mechanism to facilitate access to information on the debtor's bank account. The implementation of these solutions into Polish law will certainly facilitate citizens and companies, including particularly small and medium-sized ones, the investigation of cross-border claims and the effectiveness of enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters concerning cross-border disputes, which should reduce the risk of commercial transactions. This will also increase the payment discipline of debtors. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I wanted to request that the project be directed to further work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u532	Thank you very much. Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will now speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u533	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws. The aim of the bill is to introduce solutions into Polish legislation that will ensure proper implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European order for collateral in the bank account in order to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. The government amendment mainly amends the Civil Procedure Code Act, which adds the European Account Preservation Order, which regulates most of the issues relating to the subject matter. Other amendments are made to the law on bailiffs, the Bank Law, the law on cooperative savings and credit registers and the law on judicial costs in civil matters. In addition to the introduction of basic standards which constitute the issuing by the Polish court of a European order to secure the bank account and execute such an order in Poland, one of the most important elements of this project is the designation of the Ministry of Justice as a body for the purposes of the law. the information referred to in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is responsible for obtaining and transmitting data on debtors' accounts. This is a good solution, in my view, giving a guarantee of security that such data will not fall into the wrong hands. As indicated by the applicants, as in many other cases, it is also necessary to complement and amend the legislation in Poland in order to properly implement and comply with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Changes are necessary. The Free and Solidarni Circle will support the government bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u534	Thank you very much. Three Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Mirosław Pampuch is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u535	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. In the explanatory memorandum of the project, you state that the information authority is the Minister of Justice, but here there are doubts about what department will deal with these issues, and there is also the issue of the implementation of the OGNIVO system in the Ministry of Justice. I have a question about the state of preparation of the Ministry of Justice for this task, thus fulfilling the role of information authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u536	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Paweł Papke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u537	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The project concerns ensuring the effective implementation of Regulation No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Account Preservation Order procedure to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil matters. I have three short questions for the Minister, relatively simple, and I would like an answer. What cases can this security be applied to? Can any claim be secured in the debtor's bank account? And I am very concerned about the question: What is the applicant's responsibility in the event of unjustified execution of the European freezing order? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u538	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u539	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one question in connection with the bill on the European Account Preservation Order. What if the court which issued the order is established in a country other than that in which the account was seized? I'm asking for an answer. Is the order being revoked or terminated in accordance with the law of that State? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u540	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now Mr. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u541	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions, I will start by asking Mr Pampuch who specifically in the Ministry, which organizational unit of the Ministry of Justice will carry out the duties of the Ministry of Justice under the regulation and the proposed law. Yes, there was a doubt here at some point, but that's in the past. Finally, within the Ministry of Justice, it will be handled by the Department of International Cooperation and Human Rights, which falls within the structure of the Ministry. Moreover, not only has the department been designated, but the first technical work on technical works that are necessary to carry out the tasks of the Ministry of Justice has already begun. There were two meetings. We're in constant contact with the National Settlement Chamber. This contact is good, we do not encounter major difficulties, which means that we should without any problems in January when the regulation and regulation enter into force, and the bill, be technically ready to carry out the first proposals, if any. As far as the scope of the regulation is concerned, as Mr Papke's question is concerned, in fact, in order to answer these questions, I should quote the scope of the instruments we have been talking about. I'd have to quote an article. 2 of the regulation, because the questions concerned what matters, what claims, and the creditor's liability - here will be another provision. So it's art. 2, the scope of application, i.e. the answer to the question of what cases and what claims will be involved here. Scope of application of Article 2 (2) 1: This Regulation shall apply to monetary claims in cross-border civil and commercial matters as referred to in Article. 3 regardless of the type of court or tribunal. It does not include, in particular, fiscal, customs or administrative matters, nor State responsibility for acts and omissions in the exercise of public authority (acta iure empire). This Regulation shall not apply - it shall apply. 2 - to property rights arising from the matrimonial property regime or from a relationship which is recognised by the law applicable to it as having comparable effects to marriages; wills and successions, including maintenance obligations arising from death; claims against the debtor in connection with which insolvency proceedings have been initiated, proceedings relating to the liquidation of insolvent companies or other legal persons, judicial agreements, agreements or similar proceedings; social security; amicable proceedings. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3: This Regulation shall not apply to bank accounts which, under the law of the Member State in which the account is held, are not subject to seizure or to accounts held in connection with the operation of any of the systems referred to in Article. 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) a Directive 98/26/EC. To tell you what's going on here, it's like... the bank accounts of the State Treasury which are not subject to seizure in accordance with Polish law. In other legal systems, these may be other accounts not subject to occupation. I: This Regulation shall not apply to bank accounts held at or by central banks when they act as monetary authorities. In other words, in Poland NBP. It's an art. 2. And two questions. The first is Mr Papke's question - the creditor's responsibility. This is not really a question about the project under investigation either, and a question about the regulation that this project is about to implement. It's an art. 13, which is just entitled: Liability of the creditor. Honestly, it's got half a page. [[Voice from the room: In short, Minister.]] If that's enough, maybe I'll just send it back to the article. 13, respecting the time of your Members, for there is everything described. And Mr Goncier's question - it is always the law that is appropriate, i.e. the court of the place where that security is executed in the bank account. So, depending on where the security order is being executed in the bank account, that's where the jurisdiction of the court will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u542	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code and certain other laws contained in print No. 1048, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of point 43 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law (Print No 1042). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment of Mr Andrzej Necessary to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u543	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to provide a justification for the examination by the High Chamber of Government of the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Act amending the Law on Hunting Law, print no. 1042. The main objective of a draft law submitted by the Council of Ministers on amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014, marked with a sign. P 19/13. In the judgment cited above, the Constitutional Tribunal found that the Article was incompatible with the Constitution. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law Hunting Law, because this provision entitles the property to be covered by the regime of the hunting circuit, without providing adequate legal means to protect the rights of the owner of the property. It must be stressed that the Constitutional Tribunal has not questioned either the model adopted for the hunting economy, nor the requirements for hunting circuits, nor the possibility of covering the property with a hunting circuit without the consent of its owner. The execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is aimed at: a new procedure for the division into hunting circuits, taking into account the participation of owners and users of perpetual properties in the opinion of the draft resolution on division; the introduction of the possibility of a judicial ban on hunting because of religious beliefs or moral principles; the introduction of the possibility of redress where the previous use of the property has been substantially limited or completely excluded from the hunting circuit; the imposition of information obligations in respect of collective hunting. These solutions significantly strengthen the powers of real estate belonging to the hunting circuit and reduce the disadvantages associated with their obligation to carry out hunting by the tenants or managers of the hunting circuit, while maintaining the current model of hunting and the principles of creating hunting circuits that provide the conditions for hunting. In addition, the project aims at adapting certain statutory delegations to the requirements laid down in Article. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. According to Art. 92. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of the Regulation shall be issued by the bodies indicated in the Constitution, on the basis of the detailed authorisation provided for in the Act and for its implementation. This means that the statutory regulation must not be of a blank character, i.e. leave to the authority itself the possibility to regulate the whole complex of issues on which there is no direct regulation in the text of the Act. In order to avoid the allegation of the bleaching of the laws, it is proposed to regulate in the law the issues so far regulated by regulations, such as the rules for drawing up and amending annual hunting plans and multiannual hunting plans. In addition, the draft provides for the adaptation of certain statutory delegations to the constitutional model for guidelines for the adoption of implementing acts. Finally, the proposed bill aims to introduce mechanisms to strengthen the supervision of the Minister responsible for environmental affairs of the Polish Łowiecki Union and the disciplinary tenants and managers of hunting circuits in the implementation of annual hunting plans. In this respect, it was considered appropriate to align the situation of the tenants and managers of the hunting circuit and to extend the obligation to contribute to the costs of protecting the forest from game to the managers of the hunting circuit. Given that the non-executive or lack of hunting plans, equivalent to the inability to conduct a hunting economy, may lead to an excessive increase in the population of wild game threatening the agricultural and forestry economy and, in the event of increasing migration to areas inhabited by people, also the safety of persons and property, it is also proposed to introduce the possibility to terminate the agreement to lease the hunting circuit or to repeal accordingly the decision excluding the hunting circuit from leasing and transferring it to the Management Board in the event of non-execution by tenants or managers of hunting plans. Moreover, given that the Polish Hunting Union is not an association but a compulsory association, similar to professional self-government, which performs public-law tasks, including the disposal of wild animals that constitute a national good, it is proposed, among others.: imposing an obligation on the Polish Union of Hunters to submit annual information to the Minister responsible for the environment, as well as extending the proposed regulations on supervision of the right to request resolutions and explanations, the possibility of imposing a fine and the possibility to apply to the court for the repeal of the illegal or statutory resolution of the Polish Union of Hunting. The bill also provides for changes in the scope of judicial review in matters of acquisition and loss of membership in the Polish Łowiecki Union, the loss of membership in the hunting circle and the imposition of disciplinary penalties on a member of the Polish Łowiecki Union. These changes are due to differences in case law that have arisen under the existing law. Finally, I would like to stress that although the main objective of the proposed amendment to the Hunting Law is to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on the proper protection of landowners' rights in the Hunting District, some of the proposed solutions will undoubtedly be helpful in the fight against African swine fever, ASF. In particular, indicate here are the following: firstly, the indication as one of the grounds for amending the annual hunting plan and the multi-annual hunting plan for the suspicion of or the occurrence of an infectious animal disease subject to the obligation to control under the provisions of the Law of 11 March 2004 on the protection of animals and on the control of infectious animal diseases - this will allow for increasing the firing during the hunting year - secondly, the possibility to terminate the lease agreement for the hunting circle which, in an unjustified manner, does not implement the annual hunting plan at least 80% of the minimum number of fat game laid down in that plan to be obtained in each of the three consecutive hunting years or in the case of a negative assessment of the conduct of the hunting circle concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u544	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u545	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, Dear colleagues from the forest! My colleagues! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present my position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law together with draft implementing acts, print No. 1042. The main objectives of this draft law are: the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, taking into account the requirements laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and strengthening the supervision of the Minister responsible for environmental matters over the Polish Łowiecki Union. One of the other proposals needs further consideration. Within the framework of the proposed amendment contained in Article. 2 it is planned to commit the State Forests to estimating and financing the damage done by the game. This proposal shocked workers and trade unions in the State Forests. This proposal is not accepted by the State Forests, which at the moment are absolutely not prepared organisationally, substantively or financially to carry out these tasks. Until now, the State Forests have been burdened with various financial obligations. In previous years they have paid PLN 1.6 billion. They help national parks, they pay 2% of their sales to build roads that aren't there yet. In addition, they pay all legal taxes. Here's another thing. The burden on State Forests could weaken them too much, and their economy and organisational system to date are a model for Europe and the world. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council So 2 requires caution. The basic and legitimate purpose of the Act is to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which noted that the subject matter of the property concerned resulted in various restrictions on the full exercise by the owner of his ownership, while imposing additional obligations on him. The proposed law provides that hunting circuits will be created, as so far, by a resolution of the voivodship sejmists, which is an act of local law. The proposed solutions sufficiently ensure the participation of owners and users of perpetual real estate in the process of dividing voivodship into hunting circuits. The draft law sets out information obligations for collective hunting and provides that the owner, owner or landlord will be able to object. However, the objection will only be taken into account if hunting would endanger the safety or life of people. This solution cannot be extended to individual hunting because it is completely impossible to meet for logistical reasons. The proposed law introduces mechanisms to strengthen the supervision of the Minister responsible for environmental affairs of the Polish Łowiecki Union. The hunting circuit will be able to terminate the lease agreement with immediate effect in the event of failure or improper execution of the hunting economy. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 2 requires caution. All other proposed solutions are appropriate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I support the bill submitted for amending the Law on Hunting Law and amending the Law amending the Law on Hunting Law with draft implementing acts.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u546	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u547	At the same time, I request that the above draft law, contained in Seym printing No 1042, be submitted to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u548	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski will now speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u549	...for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u550	... Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u551	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, it is my pleasure to present the position of the club in relation to this law Hunting Law, a draft amendment to the law Hunting Law. High Izbo! I'm gonna start by thinking about it. At the end of the previous term of office, the environmental committee was investigating the amendment of the Hunting Law. I had the dubious pleasure of working in a subcommittee where I was the only unthinking one. Then there was an extraordinary scandal, when the work dominated the Polish Hunting Union, and the coalition of Members - non-political, industrial, because hunters, almost under the dictation of the Polish Hunting Union, created the Law of Hunting. The Civic Platform then blocked this project. And I would like to say that among the main supporters of the hunting brothers was none other than the present Minister of Environment Jan Szyszko. I remember the fierceness with which the Minister defended this project, how much he was involved in its adoption, but we made the right decisions. It was better that the project went to the trash. Unfortunately, after Mr Jan Szyszka's position as Minister of the Environment, we proceed with a much worse project, because the Minister is now doing what he wants. Hulk soul, hell is gone. First line. Law and Justice is deeply respected by the Constitutional Tribunal, what will concern itself with its judgments. So the owner of the property, according to this project, will actually still have to accept that hunters will be hunting in his private territory. Yeah, I do. [[Voice from the room: You had to realize...]] ...the law gives us a chance to ban such pleasures... [[Voice from the room: You had to implement...]] ...but it can only be handed out by the court, and it can only be done for worldview reasons - e.g. because of religious beliefs or moral principles. So, Minister, how do you defend property rights? This is not in line with the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 6 constitutions, because no one can be forced by the authorities to reveal their religious beliefs. That's another line. If there are restrictions on the use of the hunting circuit, its value or other losses due to the ownership of the property, the owner will be able to claim compensation from the authorities of the voivodship, from the marshals. And why should the government pay such compensation? It is not only that he will be burdened with incredible work in connection with this amendment, but also with financial burdens. In the election campaign Law and Justice built a false message that the Civic Platform wanted to privatize the forests and prohibit Poles from entering them. It was an incredible fraud. [[Voice from the room: Well, it was, don't deny it.]] And you want to close the woods in front of the Poles. Minister Szyszko installs a recipe that allows a hunter with the help of a forest guard... [[Voice from the O.R.: That's right, don't give up now.]] ...for throwing people out of the woods or other fishing grounds and punishing them with a fine on the pretext of obstructing the hunt. A full hypocrisy of the ruling party, not for the first time. The dramatist is the permission to shoot at animals less than 100 m from buildings. We can already be sure of the shootings and other accidents. [[Voice from the room: Where is your permission? Where's your consent in the bill?]] You didn't take into account any of the demands of the social side, and you're bragging that you've been consulting. There is no ban on children from hunting, and that should be a priority. The organisation of collective hunting, which has a very negative impact on ecosystems, should be prohibited. The subject of lead ammunition and many other things, feeding, etc. As the project is very bad, the Civic Platform requests that this project be rejected at first reading. Mr. Marshal! I'd like to make such a request on your hands. In addition, I would also like to make a request, if any rejection does not take place, to refer it to two committees: the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy. [[For you to read it at least, that project you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u552	Thank you very much. Now Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz will use the rest of her time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u553	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Continuing my fellow Member's club speech, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of strategic environmental impact assessments. We see that the project is extensive - it can be seen - and significantly changes the Law of Hunting. It follows that the basis for the hunting economy will be special planning documents which, under our law and EU law, should be subject to such assessments. Unfortunately, in this project there is no obligation to make this strategic assessment, and it would guarantee that the hunting economy will be conducted in a sustainable manner, taking into account the interests of all stakeholders. The absence of this requirement raises fundamental doubts as to the legality of both EU and national. In the absence of time, I will no longer talk about this, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, [[♪ The bell ♪]] conflict with the precautionary principle and environmental law, and in particular about inconsistencies with information... [[Time's up, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u554	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u555	I just want to point out that in this situation, the Platform...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u556	Mr Jarosław Sachajko will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u557	... The citizens will make amendments if the honourable Sejm directs this proposal to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u558	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u559	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I am pleased to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Hunting Law Act. This law aims, among others, at: the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal which held that the applicable rules do not ensure the protection of the rights of the owner of the property belonging to the hunting circuit. The rules for the pursuit of the hunting economy, in particular those relating to hunting, have been a hotspot for years in disputes between the farmer and the hunter. Unfortunately, this project does not seek to reconcile the interests of these communities, it does not encourage cooperation. We still have farmers on one side, and hunters on the other, and both groups in this conflict are losing. The proposed law speaks very nicely of hunting, that it aims to meet the social needs of hunting, cultivating traditions and promoting ethics and hunting culture. And where are we talking about the farmer, about his rights, about his work being put into sowing, growing and harvesting plants, which are the income of his entire family? Is the value of the work of a farmer who produces food that provides food security to Poland less important than the value of hunting? Why doesn't the government want to create a system where both values - farmers' property and hunting - will be on one level in the hierarchy... [[What do you mean he doesn't want to? He does.]] ...and will be equally protected by the law? I understand that the hunting economy is important and meets important objectives, but it cannot continue at the expense of farmers. The draft law in its own specific way makes it possible to strengthen the rights of the owner of the property, which is intended to enable him to claim compensation in the event that the coverage of this property by the hunting circuit significantly reduces the way it is used to date. Such a phrase, although it would seem right, will in fact not change anything, because what does it mean to limit the use that has been made of it? Similarly, the project regulates the possibility for the owner of the property to apply to the court for a ban on hunting its property because of religious beliefs. So it's possible, but it's a very difficult process, and with the proposed records, it's practically impossible. I would like to inform you that on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 in October, I submitted a bill amending the current unsatisfactory compensation scheme for farmers due to hunting damage. In the project submitted by Kukiz, 15 among others. farmers' problems of achieving fair compensation for their losses are adequately addressed, while taking care of the budget at the same time. According to our project, funds for the compensation fund will come from payments made by the tenants of hunting circuits, the Polish Union of Hunters and the State Forest Forests Forests, i.e. entities responsible for the correct hunting economy. It is also worth noting the proposal to direct the funds from the rental to the state and to allocate them to investments related to improving the living conditions of the villagers. In June, we passed the noisy announced and later celebrated as a great success law on compensation for hunting damages, and then quietly the government proposes to postpone its entry into force for another year. Farmers who have suffered losses as a result of hunting damage, often thousands, do not understand why once again they are denied the right to fair compensation and free ownership of their property. How do you expect them to trust a government that just says it's going to be better and that it wants to be better, and then it's putting it off? Fortunately, time checks out good intentions. I hope that this will be the case too. Ladies and gentlemen, the Kukiz Club15 will make amendments to this Act, which I hope will gain your approval. I would also ask that this project be referred to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u560	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Club Modern Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u561	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's hard to defend a single paragraph in this bill. This amendment restricts in an unacceptable way the basic... [[Or perhaps you would first read the project and not criticize it.]] ...Citizen's rights. I am talking about the proposed provision which says that anyone who makes it difficult or impossible to carry out a hunt is punishable by a fine. The idea of punishing random people for being in the woods during hunting is de facto a restriction of constitutional civil rights, including property rights and freedom. This will limit access to forests, including those that are someone's private property. The rules in the project do not specify exactly what it means to obstruct and prevent hunting, because of which any citizen may be forced to leave the forest, even the owner of the forest. That's the effect of this recipe. This is a provision that leaves a broad scope for interpretation and raises concerns about abuse of law. There are earlier judgments of the court which ruled that the right to hunt is not superior to the rights of others to use the forest or the lake. This project is another example of the wrong policy of Minister Szyszka, which not only harms the environment but also limits citizens' rights. It is also another non-democratic provision, just as it is one who says that the owner or user of the perpetual property belonging to the hunting circuit may apply to the general court for a ban on hunting this property, justifying it with his religious beliefs or moral principles, and no one can be obliged by the public authorities to disclose his worldview and religious beliefs or religion. The Constitutional provision protects the inner sphere of the individual's beliefs. The proposed draft therefore does not properly implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014, in which the Court ruled that the existing rules are non-constitutional, since the owners of the property belonging to the hunting area do not have any legal means to object to the pursuit of hunting on the land which is the subject of their ownership. The provisions of the proposed amendment are also non-constitutional, so the legal situation would not improve at all. The disclosure of the world view and religious affiliation is subject to the Personal Data Protection Act of 1997, adopted in connection with the international obligations of the Republic of Poland. The need to demonstrate a real relationship with the worldview is not needed to achieve the social objectives of the hunting economy. Point 2 of Article 2 5 states that the Minister of the Environment will, by regulation, establish a list of wild game species, taking into account inter alia. cultivating hunting traditions. This threatens the main role of hunting, i.e. the protection and management of wild game in accordance with the principles of ecology and the principles of rational farming, forestry and fishing. This provision would lower the standards for the protection of wild animals. The EU's precautionary principle is reflected in Polish law, in the Environmental Protection Act, which states that anyone undertaking activities whose negative environmental impacts are not yet fully recognised is obliged to take all possible preventive measures, based on caution. The development of this provision is Article. 47 Environmental Impact Assessment Act. A strategic environmental impact assessment shall also be required for projects other than those referred to in Article. 46. Therefore, it is necessary to adapt the Hunting Law to those provisions which the proposed proposal does not do. In the light of the project, the multi-annual breeding plans form the basis for the pursuit of the hunting economy. They consist, among others. the management and collection of wild game populations. The project allows the adoption of multi-annual hunting breeding plans without carrying out a strategic environmental impact assessment. Multiannual breeding plans are documents and meet the criteria needed to create an obligation to draw up a strategic environmental impact assessment. Multi-annual breeding plans in the light of Article. 8b as proposed in the project will include estimates of the number of animals. Unreliable inventory of these animals can lead to harmful hunting plans, which may result in excessive wildfire and the collapse of the predator population. Such cases have already been known in the near past. In particular, collective hunting, which may form part of the implementation of hunting plans, has a direct impact on the areas of protection. In particular, they lead to an apprehension of other animals in the hunting area, including protected species. Ladies and gentlemen, considering all of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] these arguments, I have serious doubts whether applicants are able to correct these obvious errors during the work of the committee. Perhaps...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u562	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u563	...and if not, there is no way that the Modern Parliamentary Club will support this project. [[Your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u564	Thank you. Ms Urszula Pasławska will now speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u565	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! Diana's friends, hunters' colleagues, foresters' colleagues, thank you very much. I am impressed that at this hour you are with us to discuss to listen to the debate on hunting law. On behalf of the Members' Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present my position in this law. This draft implements the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 10 July 2014, which indicates that there is no provision of adequate legal means concerning the rights of the owner of the property. It must be stressed that the Constitutional Tribunal has not contested either the adopted model of the hunting economy, nor the requirements for hunting circuits, nor the possibility of covering the property with a hunting circuit without the consent of the owner. The Court notes, however, that there are different types of restrictions on the owner as a result of taking over the property in question, while imposing additional obligations on the owner. The Court has deferred the provisions in force until 21 January 2016 and despite many attempts made during the previous term of office, as well as during this term of office, it has failed to bring about the adoption of the relevant law. I hope and hope that the legislative process towards the present law will proceed smoothly and quickly, because the Marshal's offices must have time to prepare, develop and implement relevant local laws. The proposed law provides that the hunting circuits will be created as before by a resolution of the voivodship sejm, extended to include the circuits into individual categories. Following an opinion and agreement procedure, the draft resolution will be submitted for public opinion, which will ensure that owners and users of perpetual real estate have the right to comment and even to challenge the administrative court. The owner or perpetual user of the property belonging to the hunting circuit will also have the opportunity to apply to the competent voivode with a claim for compensation. Where the coverage of this property by a hunting circuit prevents or significantly restricts the way it is used to date, it may also apply to the general court to prohibit the pursuit of this property because of religious beliefs or moral principles. The Act also introduces mechanisms to strengthen the supervision of the Minister responsible for. the environment over the Polish Łowiecki Union, while balancing the issue of self-government of this organization, introduces measures to discipline the tenants and managers of hunting circuits in the implementation of annual hunting plans. This project also introduces new mechanisms for compensation liability by identifying a new injury assessment body - State Forests. And just as the co-financing of hunting damages from public funds should be positively assessed, it is so difficult not to say that two years ago, when the ruling coalition at that time devoted part of the State Forests' profits to the construction of local roads, the opposition at that time raised a rouble about the assassination of the State Forests... [[And where did these local roads come from? Can you give me one example?]] ...and today the question is whether the State Forests have calculated the costs of their participation in the compensation operation. By reading the article. 1 and Article 1 2 draft law, it seems as if we are dealing with two authors of these changes, because they differ significantly from legislative correctness. With regard to Article. 2 as a club we will certainly make adjustments. Addressing damage is another approach to trying to address this problem not only this year. We remember well that there were such attempts during the previous term. I remind you that the Polish People's Party submitted a draft law on hunting damages in spring this year. Unfortunately, we regret that the process has been stopped. In return, the Minister of Agriculture, Jurgel, gave the vote of an unenforceable bill, an impossible concept for the estimation of damages by 200 voivodeships. Let me remind you that today hunters are free of charge, with their own money, 6,000. hunters, estimate damage. As a result, we had already called for this expensive, ineffective and unenforceable law not to be taken in June. But the worst part was that Minister Jurgiel was introducing [[♪ The bell ♪]] farmers in an expensive administrative procedure for farmers. Time has shown that we were right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u566	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u567	The Polish People's Party is in favour of proceeding further over the bill and referring it to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u568	Ms Małgorzata Zwierzan will speak on behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u569	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Hunting Law Act. The contested bill has three main objectives, which can be summarised in one way: to sort out the mess and to cut off the state in this area. In this revision, the project promoters propose a number of changes which will significantly contribute to enhancing the protection of ownership of land owners and land users located in the designated hunting area. Among these regulations are solutions, among others. in the field of rules for the creation of hunting circuits, ensuring that owners and users of perpetual real estate participate in the process of division of voivodship into hunting circuits. The proposed solution is fully justified, because it would be wrong for the land owner to participate in the decision-making process if he had no right to participate in the decision-making process. Applicants also propose to allow owners and perpetual users of the property referred to in the amendment, to lodge claims for damages and to apply for a ban on hunting. They also require tenants and managers of hunting circuits to inform about collective hunting. These are obvious matters, and we are surprised that they have not yet been regulated. In addition, the Act provides for the introduction of a number of changes contributing to the improvement of the hunting economy, the strengthening of control over multi-annual hunting plans and, finally, the harmonisation of planning documents in the field of the hunting economy throughout the country. The Free and Solidarni Circle recognises the need and the legitimacy of the government's proposed solutions, and will therefore vote in favour of further proceedings over the law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u570	Thank you very much, Member. 17 ladies and gentlemen of the House have joined the question. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. [[One and a half, Marshal.]] As the first Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u571	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The bill presented to the High House is incompatible with the Constitution, as Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 7th Constitution states that no one can be obliged by public authorities to reveal their worldview, religious beliefs or religion. Meanwhile, art. Article 27b (2) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2 The Law provides that a court shall prohibit the pursuit of real estate if the owner or user of perpetual real estate reveals actual links with religious doctrine and points out in the religious doctrine the principles which consider it unacceptable to hunt hunting animals or the moral principles which conflict with the hunting of hunted animals. The Act also infringes fundamental civil rights by imposing fines on citizens for accidental obstructing or preventing hunting. And the question, Minister: Is it true that the bill does not take into account the demands made by NGOs, among others. banning the participation of children in hunting, increasing the distance at which the shooting of the game takes place from 100 m to 500 m from residential buildings and from the use of toxic lead ammunition?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u572	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski will ask the question, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law sealed the dismantling of the Polish model of nature protection, which was given as a model all over the world. You're cutting out the Bialowieza Forest. [[In Vajraka you begin...]] We're probably looking at three years of slaughter at $25,000. Beavers, and we don't really know how many of them we have, maybe only about 50,000. You want to kill them even in forest and protected areas where they play an unimaginably important role. You're wondering how to shoot elk and bison, like a little bit of compensation for damage done. Are there gonna be wolves, bears, lynxes next? That's why you trashed the National Council for Nature so you could put things into practice more easily. Minister, what are you doing with all this? What's all this for? They're calling you the minister of environmental destruction today. Do you want to be hailed as an alien of protected species? [[Mr. Simpson, if you'd like to measure...]] I have another question: Wouldn't it be possible, like the Polish Angry Union, to organise invitations to fish, to tender for game hunting? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u574	Mr Józef Leśniak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u575	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the bill submitted in print no. 1042 in Amendment No. 14 was added, among others. Article 2 27b. This provision refers to the possibility of banning hunting in a given area, but at the same time does not fit in with the principle of a comprehensive hunting economy. Such a legal situation may lead to a situation where the owner or the perpetual user of a property with an area, e.g. 5,000. ha, referring to the difficult moral principles or religious beliefs, will effectively impede hunting on the territory of one or even more hunting circuits. This, in turn, may affect the quantitative state of the game and thus damage in crops and agricultural fetuses and on the scale of compensations paid. Would it not be appropriate, therefore, to introduce appropriate legislation to prevent possible abuses on the part of smaller farms, rather than on the part of large-scale landowners and users? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u576	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Edward Sulphur, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u577	Mr. Marshal! Minister! After Mr Suski's speech from the Civic Platform, it is worth recalling a few facts. The Polish Hunter Association has 120 thousand. Hunters. [[Under the gun.]] [[Another minister's army.]] These are the hunters, among other things. they make 60,000 a year. Damage assessment. It is from the contributions of these hunters and from the collected game that the total damage of PLN 70 million is paid. Carcases which are obtained for this purpose are also obtained in the context of collective hunting. Meanwhile, many of you want to ban these hunts. How do you imagine, for example? the elimination of the phenomenon we've been dealing with recently, the ASF? [[Have you eliminated it yet?]] Some wild boars have been acquired, among others. as a result of collective hunting. Therefore, will the elimination of one, as you claim, of the ways in which hunting is carried out, such as collective hunting, result in a failure to plan to obtain the game or remain without affecting its implementation? What are the grounds for maintaining this type of hunting, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u578	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u579	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 46a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii))) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) As of today, the State Forests have neither human resources nor material resources to estimate damage to agricultural crops. The scale of the phenomenon of hunting damage will require State Forests to create new jobs for forest administration or to impose additional obligations on employees of State Forests, which will undoubtedly generate additional costs on the part of the State Treasury. So I have a question. The NSZZ National Forestry Workers' Section Council strongly opposes such solutions and the imposition of such tasks on the State Forests. Is it possible to verify the position and amendment of this provision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u580	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mieczysław Mizga, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u581	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The use of lead ammunition is a matter discussed and investigated throughout Europe. Lead is a heavy metal and toxic, but its pathogenic effect requires adequate and significant concentrations. The studies collected have not shown that lead used in hunting ammunition is a direct source of human or animal disease if it has been consumed together with food. On the contrary, it is shown that the concentration of this metal derived from ammunition is of marginal importance for human health and the animal population. At the same time, possible substitutes for lead in hunting ammunition, soft steel in shotgun ammunition, copper alloys, tombak in bullet ammunition, are also not without significant defects. In the case of soft steel-based shotgun ammunition, the number of gunshots increases rapidly, while the shot corrodes the bullet in the body without giving it practically a chance of natural healing. The copper- and tombaku-based ball ammo is characterized by much greater than the ammo involved... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Does the Ministry of Environment have any research on this?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u582	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u583	In the previous term of office of the Sejm, the resort was hard-pressed... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u584	The question is asked by Agata Borowiec, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u585	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The proposed draft law in an excellent part implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014. The Court pointed out the need to ensure adequate measures to protect the rights of the owner of the property covered by the hunting circuit regime. This issue does not raise my doubts. However, I have a question for the Ministry about the article. 2 project, which says that a representative of the State Forest Forest Farm is investigating and estimating damage. Minister! Is it true that the State Forests do not have a staff that has adequate theoretical and practical knowledge in the field of agriculture to make such an estimate? Could the performance of these completely new tasks, which this project imposes on the State Forests, lead to paralysis so far exemplary by the State Forests of forest management? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u586	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u587	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Representatives of the Polish Hunting Union! I have questions for the Minister. How important for the Polish economy is the game market, what are the amounts of carcasses per specific zloty in terms of obtaining them by Polish hunters, as well as whether this project properly regulates the estimation of hunting damage, the protection of agricultural crops and provides the possibility of proper management of the Polish Union of Hunters with the population of wild animals? With today's expansion, especially deer, wild boar and other fat game, this is quite an important problem for agriculture, for road safety, so I would like to know if you think this project is properly addressed to this issue, and also ask especially about the value of the Polish game market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u588	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u589	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Guests are gathered! The Hunting Law must undoubtedly be amended, it must be adapted to the current conditions, and not only in the compensation part, which is very important for farmers. In the speech of the representative of the PiS club, we heard that the State Forests are going to be shocked by the fact that this section on the assessment of compensation has been dropped. I am interested in the extent of this shock, i.e. how many of these proposed jobs will be, what will be the cost of setting up these jobs and the possible training of employees and how much compensation is estimated to be later to be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u590	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have questions for the government. Why does the project involve such late payment of compensation? Why will farmers not have compensation paid as of January 2017? Many farmers can go bankrupt because of lack of fair compensation. In my parliamentary office in Koszalin I was visited by many farmers of Koszalin land and showed on my laptop videos recorded by drones, how huge damage the forest animals caused in their areas, as I already mentioned at the committee meeting, that the government should now declare a natural disaster caused not only by atmospheric conditions but also by forest animals. Does the government now want to cede the taxpayer's compensation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u592	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u593	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill assumes that, in the event of an unjustified failure to implement the annual hunting plan for the acquisition of moose, noble deer, dandelions or deer, the tenant and the managers of hunting circuits are obliged to contribute to the costs of protecting the forest from game. Recording of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the project requires State Forests to settle the amount of participation between themselves and forest owners which do not constitute ownership of the State Treasury. However, the procedure for obtaining information on the costs of protecting forests from wildlife incurred by forest owners other than those belonging to the State Treasury is not defined. In the absence of legal regulations in this area, it will not be possible to comply with this obligation. This is particularly important in connection with the fact that forests not constituting the property of the State Treasury are very fragmented in Poland. Private forests, so-called. private forests are in most cases part of farms, and this part is of little importance for the economics of these farms. As a result, forest management such as in the State Forests, including forest protection, is not carried out there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] before the damage caused by deer. And I wanted to ask, did the ministry...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u594	Thank you, sir. Now the question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u595	...planning to take some additional legislative action to improve the project...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u596	...Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u597	...to solve these problems? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u598	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u599	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! And I'm not surprised the foresters are here at this hour. The mode of operation of the forester and responsibility for the greatest Polish treasure cause that the foresters are practically in a 24-hour vigil. When I hear from the Members of the opposition about any negligence or errors in the economy when it comes to the running of the Ministry of Environment by our Minister, I am immediately reminded of the NIK reports, even the one that was discussed today in the Environmental Protection Committee, the omen report signed by President Kwiatkowski, which presents a crushing negative assessment of the activities of the Ministry for the previous years. Meritum. Minister, according to the new draft, the owner or administrator may apply for a ban on hunting in his territory. If such a prohibition is recognised, can the owner then claim compensation in the event of damage? [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the question of financial opportunities has already been asked...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u600	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u601	...just one question. Aren't you afraid of art? 2 will cause foresters and farmers to enter into a dispute? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u602	The question is asked by Mr Jan Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u603	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Dear guests! Hunting and agriculture, here we have to add the forest economy, is the oldest economic activity of man. These activities should, they must work together. I talked about this when I amended the Compensation Act, and I'm still maintaining it. Here's the question. Minister, does this bill guarantee such mutual cooperation and respect? I ask, because in one of the speeches sounded a little bit of a note, as if the State Forests wanted to turn off a little bit of this mutual circle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u604	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Anna Paluch, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u605	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The insinuations and accusations of the representative of Mr Suski's PO from his finger will not change the fact that the previous government failed to comply with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 July 2014 concerning the formation of hunting circuits. You had it, Mr Suski, a year and a half, but you need the Constitutional Tribunal mainly as fuel to fight the government, and you do not respect its judgments. [[Ask the hunters why, and your minister.]] High Izbo! New provisions of the proposed articles, e.g. Article 2 26 and Article 26 26a, concerning the categorization of hunting circuits and the differentiation of charges for tenants depending on the category of the circuit will affect the better hunting economy in the circuits, and it is the tenants who make contributions to the Compensation Fund. I think the rule is good, but I'm having second thoughts about the art. 2 projects which modify the provisions adopted by the amendment of 22 June this year. Let me remind you that this change introduced systemic solutions for compensation for hunting damages. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These solutions have not yet functioned...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u606	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u607	...there is no experience in the implementation of these newly adopted proceedings...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u608	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Jerzy Gosiewiski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u609	...and it's hard to say that they're not going to work, and that they're going to postpone the date of entry into force...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u610	Madame, you have run out of time to ask the question. [[Madam President, time does not apply.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u611	...it is not, as Mr Sachajko says, the disregard of farmers, but it results from the desire to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...better preparation and implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u612	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The draft law implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and fully meets the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Minister, has all the individuals involved in these changes been consulted? Second question. Is it true that the current organizational system in the Polish Hunting Union and in the State Forests is a model for Europe and the world? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Jesus Christ!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u613	Thank you. The question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u614	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear guests! High Izbo! I am surprised to my colleagues from the Civic Platform that they forget that it is not so long ago that they wielded the rule of government in our country. Since 2014, you have had a great deal of time to amend the Hunting Law Act, because this judgment of July 2014 really left you a lot of time to implement it. To remind you, I suggest that you examine the actions of your party colleagues, such as: Stanisław Gorczyca, who devoted so much effort to destroy Polish hunting, hunting, also to destroy activities that have been undertaken over recent years, for example by introducing private hunting circuits. I know you want to privatize everything in our country, but is this an area that really deserves to be privatized for your wicked, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A very narrow target? [[But we're not in charge, you're in charge.]] Minister, one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u615	Thank you very much, sir. You couldn't fit in time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u616	Please tell us about the amendment to the Hunting Law and what the cost will be for the State Forests if we adopt the bill in its form. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u617	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u618	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thinking is a beautiful economy, just like hunting, for many years. It's just that no subject, ladies and gentlemen, is missing out on this game, on this passion, on this beautiful sport, as if it weren't called it, just a farmer. You're making a mockery here because what's going on with the Hunting Act is a mockery. We've been working all year, until the night, you've blown away the success of such a beautiful bill that no one's ever done it before. Everything's in the basket because your guru Morawiecki said there's no money, no money for a tree. I'm asking if you have a garden and someone's gonna barbecue you in the backyard, and he's gonna do some damage to you, and he's not gonna pay you, and you're gonna be happy about it. So how can farmers be satisfied? It's all about money, money, and money again. [[Let's get to the point, sir. Don't tell us stories here.]] The excess game is bad. Everything that's good is bad for too much. Therefore, what is happening with the Hunting Act is a clear mockery of the PiS Members [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of us, of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u619	Thank you, sir. [[The public mockery was what the PO government held in the previous term.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u620	But we're still gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u621	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u622	...work on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u623	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u624	We're gonna be working on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u625	Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u626	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u627	Thank you. [[Noisy and not about it.]] [[It's just a farce.]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. You will now speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Nebula. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u628	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! It's been a long time since I've heard such stubbornness in repeating lies. I thought that... [[Just come to the government.]] ...when we talk to you in committees, in the environment committee, in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and this conversation looks like, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, a little different, it's kind of here, I think, a misunderstanding about articulating certain situations, certain events. [[I'm all ears.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. I ask myself whether you have any positive reference to the Polish economy, to the Polish nature, to the Polish State Forests and to the Polish model of hunting. It was this model of hunting that ensured the continuity of species, the preservation of all species, biodiversity. But human action... and here, I think, is a challenge to dialogue in the agricultural committee as well as with farmers, because what we have seen over the last year is building an image of the social enemy - I did not want to use that word. The atmosphere is heated, one against the other, the farmer against the hunter, the hunter against the farmer, and the foresters come to this, while there is no rational and substantive conversation. Ladies and gentlemen! These provisions, which are proposed in this law, when we are talking about the possibility of banning hunting, are not obligations, that is, the right of the citizen, it can be exercised or not. And that's consistent... [[Minister...]] ...with the recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights, these are not terms... they are not lex specialis. The substantive provisions on prohibited acts and their criminalisation always, in principle, provide a basis for the deliberateness of such acts. Ladies and gentlemen, what will you tell the people who are injured? The last five years are 106,000. accidents, 50 fatalities. I have the impression that you want to create a voluntary model of environmental management, i.e. not management. The planned models of the wild population, which unfortunately showed - I do not like to use it, to give an example - your action, i.e. the failure to act in the field of the explosion of ASF in 2014, I was there, Mr, we spoke, I was a forerunner... [[But...]] ...in the Bialowieza Forest. I was banned from gathering boars because it was supposed to help eliminate the ASF. Our simulations, as well as the scientific research of the people who are in this Chamber, in the High House, show that if we stopped hunting only wild boars today, assuming a certain increase, within 3 years... [[Did somebody ask you that?]] ...we have from one million to eight million wild boars in Poland. What do you say, Mr Suski, to people where wild boars are harming cities, destroying lawns, destroying gardens? What do you say? [[But who controls the game population?]] Don't hunt, don't hunt. [[Minister, there are wild boars walking along the pedestrian lanes in the cities.]] Yeah, thank you very much. [[You want the MPs to steer?]] Collective hunting... Members are to work on the process of good law. So, yeah, we have 106 grand. accidents, 50 fatalities. [[The Minister is an active hunter, the only one in the European Union, I think.]] Let's not do anything else, okay? There was a question about lead ammo. We have the latest German research, the results not yet published - lead ammo is the least invasive ammo in terms of the environment. Ammunition... [[Lead is harmless at all.]] ...with copper or tombaku... Mr President, listen, someone has asked a question, I am trying to answer it. Ammunition involving copper or tombaku... [[It's not worth it.]] ...creates salts that penetrate very strongly into the soil and are more reactive than lead. There was a question about the game market. The game market today is 15,000. T, but of which 12 thousand. t - at low prices, prices lowered by western capital - leaves us, leaves Poland and a normal citizen cannot buy this product in the store. And it comes back... [[What is the market value?]] ...overworked, at a high price. There's been a question of compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is those people who are at this gallery in the House who have estimated, estimated and estimated the damage. 1 January 2017 - assessment of damage will take place on the basis of existing rules. [[Minister, this is a joke.]] The ban on hunting - compensation will be granted. If... [[Jesus Christ!]] ...the owner will establish a ban on hunting, compensation in accordance with the Civil Code will be granted. [[But to whom?]] Someone here said it wouldn't be worth it. [[But what kind of grace is that?]] Consultations - were conducted with the National Council of Agricultural Chambers, with the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Self-government, with foresters, with the Polish Łowiecki Union. The Polish model of hunting is based on three pillars. And here, too, there's some confusion, because no one leases the land, leases the right to do the hunting. That's the main thing. And here too, I'd say, there's an understatement. It was said that the farmer was losing. What I'm saying is that it's those people who are out there at the gallery doing an annual social service of PLN 300 million for hunting. They're doing it socially. [[Minister, you don't know what you're saying.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Well, I guess we'll use a breathalyzer, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u629	Mr President, please do not interfere with the Minister's speech. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Necessary: The Polish State Forests and the Polish Hunting Union are just, as someone said here, in a construction that ensures proper management of natural resources, which can be seen after the intensity of species. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Too many wild boars.]] Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection at first reading of the bill was made in the discussion and for different applications for referral of the bill. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 1 December. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. The first statement is made by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Next Sunday, December 4th, Barbórka is celebrated - the patron saint of miners. Since the old mining times, the brothers have been patronizing St. Barbara. St. Barbara is the patron saint of miners, steel workers, smiths, sailors. Many people ask themselves why it is St. Barbara became the patron saint of the miners. Well, tradition says that when Barbara's father found out that his daughter had become a Christian, he took a sword on her. The girl managed to get out of the tower and ran to nearby rocks. St. Barbara, when she ran away, prayed warmly for her rescue. God answered her request. Among the rocks, Barbara found an underground cave where she found refuge. That's why he's helping those who work underground today. The miners deeply believe that it was thanks to the help and intercession of St. Barbara has managed to recover from oppression and difficult situations in hard mining work. On the occasion of the mining festival of Barbórka to all miners, all people associated with the mining sector, I wish their families the best wishes of every success in their personal and professional lives. I wish that work, though difficult, dangerous and demanding many sacrifices, gives you a lot of satisfaction to always be properly appreciated and paid. May the beautiful mining traditions so well cultivated by you, the skills of honest, honest work be passed on, as so far, from generation to generation. I would like to thank all the miners from this place for the efforts put into developing our Silesian region. I wish you, even in these difficult times, that working in the mine will provide your families with a decent existence, and St. Barbara has constantly surrounded you and your families with her care, ensuring the security and certainty of tomorrow's day. I also make immodest wishes to myself, a person who has worked in mining for 26 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u631	Thank you very much. The statement is now made by Mrs Teresa Glenc. [[There is no Member.]] There is no Member. The statement is made by Katarzyna Czochar, the Law and Justice Club. [[There isn't any either.]] The statement is made by Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u632	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beautifully located town of Walcz, from which I come, there are many great athletes, many champions winning the highest titles, achieving the highest successes. Among them is the fighter Krzysztof Głowacki, World Champion of the WBO Federation in heavyweight - the title won during the best 2015 fight. Krzysztof is an example of an amazing athlete endowed with talent, diligence, a man extremely disciplined and modest, who is now bravely returning to training after the loss of a master's belt and injury. Krzysztof, today from this place, the parliament of the Republic of Poland, I would like to give you warm greetings and immense support. You're a great athlete, a great man. We are proud of you, proud of your victory and faithful at any other time. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u633	Thank you. The statement is made by Mrs Urszula Ruseck, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement I would like to dedicate to the Abbey of the Benedictine Monks in the United States in the Great District. The Benedictine Abbey in Staniątki was founded in 1216 and celebrates the 800th anniversary this year. The celebration of the round anniversary lasts all year. The main celebrations took place on Sunday, 18 September. The solemn Mass of St. presided over the Prefect of the Congregation for Foreign Affairs. Institutes of Consecrated Life and Associations of Apostolic Life. Numerous representatives of the episcopate took part in the celebrations. The priest's patronage over the Jubilee was taken over by the metropolitan of Kraków cardinal. Stanisław Dziwisz, and the honorary patronage - President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. The Benedictine Sisters monastery in Staniątki is the oldest Benedictine monastery in Poland. It was funded by Clement Jaks Gryphy for the daughter of Wizenna. The monastery was equipped by the founder with extensive properties, from which to this day there was nothing left, except a large garden. The abbey flourished in the 17th century when there were about 50 sisters in the monastery. Between 1619 and 1649 the monastery was expanded, but later during the Swedish Deluge it was seriously destroyed. In 1784, at the abbey, a government school for ladies and a school for rural children was opened. The schools developed in the 19th century. After World War II, the authorities of the Polish People's Republic eliminated the monastery school run by the sisters, took the land from the monks and moved it to the monastery in Alvernia. Currently in Poland there are nine Benedictine monasteries, and the religious community in Staniątki has 18 sisters. The monastery in Staniątki is also a Marian sanctuary in which Our Lady of Pains is worshiped. In 1924 her painting was crowned with papal crowns by Cardinal Adam Stefan Sapieha of Cracow. In the monastery there are rich collections of art and artistic crafts. Among the most precious treasures of the abbey are among others. The late Gothic sculpture of Christ Frasoble, a collection of portraits of the monastery's monasteries and numerous liturgical paraments. The monastery building in Staniątki, in which the sisters live related to the rule of St. Benedicta, it's very extensive. Keeping it requires a lot of money. For this reason, the nuns, in order to maintain the abbey, lead a guest house, sell cultivated at the monastery pond of carp, distribute preparations and gingerbread, and during the celebration of All Saints - chrysanthemums. In addition, they promise a prayer memory for the dead of the family of the person who purchased flowers from the sisters. On the occasion of the 800th anniversary of the Benedictine Abbey in Staniątki, I wish all dear sisters the serenity, the joy of service and many kindness from people. May your service always be a noble testimony to modern society. The 800th anniversary celebrations will close next Sunday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u635	Thank you very much. The statement will now be made by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. [[The protocol went.]] In writing, she filed, yes, sir. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u636	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the occasion of December 4th the saint patron saint of the miners of St. Barbara I wish all miners best wishes, thanks for hard, dangerous work and expressions of solidarity, respect and appreciation in these difficult mining times, as well as the best wishes of health, every prosperity, fulfilling professional and personal plans, and above all mining happiness and continuous care of St. Barbara. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u637	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u638	A statement by the Members on the 70th anniversary of the death of Victor Zacheus Nowowiejski. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On December 6, exactly 70 years ago, one of the soldiers of the underworld of independence Victor Zacheusz Nowowiejski died. A hedgehog. To honor this hero's memory, I'm going to give him a brief overview of his life story. Victor Zacheusz Nowowiejski was born on 28 December 1915 in the village of Zembrzus in Mazury. He came from a small-scale family that cultivated patriotic traditions. He started his education at a community school in Janów, then studied at a teacher's seminary in Mława. He graduated in 1936, and soon after that he began military service at a school in Zambrów. Later he worked as a primary school teacher. The outbreak of the war in September 1939 was no surprise to him. He lived and worked in a belt bordering the Prusai, thus witnessing the preparation of the fifth column for armed activities. As a corporal, he received a mobilization card for the unit in Biała Podlaski and participated in the defensive war in 1939. After the surrender of the army and the successful escape from the POW camp, he returned to his home in the late autumn. At that time he and his colleagues began to organize secret teaching and to form structures for the armed underground. Victor Zacchaeus was a member of the Armed Fighting Union. In the spring of 1942, he managed to avoid arrest by the Gestapo. He was warned earlier and fled with false documents to the district of Nidzicki. In April 1943. Nowywiejski was sworn in as a soldier of the Home Army under the ps. Yeah, that's right. His task was to collect messages through a network of informants for the headquarters of the Olsztyn - Tuchola AK. After a few months, he was part of the guerrilla unit led by Stefan Rudziński. Victor. He became famous for many really bravado actions against Germany, which were carried out in the former Eastern Prussia. In the ranks of the Nowowiejski branch, he liquidated German police stations and also removed agents who cooperated with the occupation. In addition, he organized material aid for the families of men who were imprisoned or sent for forced labor. After the Soviets entered the area of the Przasny district, he did not decide to lay down his weapon. Together with other guerrillas, he held actions in which he defended those oppressed by the Communists. One of the loudest actions took place on the night of 2rd and 3rd June 1945 in Mława, where the guerrillas freed about 30 people, mainly former soldiers and officers of the National Army from the prison in Ubeck. For this reason, numerous manhunts were organized. His family was also persecuted. In November 1945. Nowowiejski returned to his hometown and became commander of one of the guerrilla troops of the Freedom and Independence Association. Shortly thereafter, on December 6, 1946, a group of UB officers from Przysnysz, supported by a platoon of soldiers from 3. The Ulanów Warszawski Regiment led to the death of Nowowiejski in Zembrzus, near his own home. When the bullet hit him, he tried to run away. The moment he realized that escape was not possible, he took his life with a shot to the head. Her body was taken to Przasnysz, and despite many requests it was not given to the family. To this day, the place of his burial is unknown. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u639	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 3 December, we are celebrating the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, which was established in 1992 by the UN General Assembly, which aims not only to pay particular attention to disability and related problems, but also to raise public awareness of the benefits of removing barriers and to create a common framework for people with different fitness categories. How wise and mature civil society is, it is reflected in its attitude towards those who, without the help of others, cannot cope in a world full of barriers to them, such as architectural, communication, information, difficulty in finding work and stereotypical perception of people with disabilities. Let us remember that people with disabilities, by providing the right conditions, realise their potential in the same way as people with disabilities. On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, but also on any other day of the year, let us build a society that is sensitive to the needs of these people, let us do our utmost to enable them to participate actively in economic, social and political life. From this unique place, I would like to wish all those with disabilities and their families lovingly. Above all, I wish you much health, much joy in everyday life and human kindness.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-12-01-sejm-31-3.u640	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 2 December 2016 at 3 p.m. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 23]]
