ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u1	Resume session. Mr. Senators, please take your seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 170th anniversary of the Chochołowski Uprising And consider it point eight. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. I would like to welcome you to our meeting, in our deliberations of the Hungarian Ambassador to Poland, Dr. Iván Gyurcsík, together with the embassy's advisor, Mr Pál Attila Illés. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 79 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Ambassador! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission an additional report on the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. High Izbo! When considering this resolution, it must be remembered that geopolitical position has led to close-up and defence alliances between our countries at the beginning of both countries, the Hungarian State and the Polish State. Already in the time of Bolesław Krzywoust and the King of Hungary, the Scholar's alliance against the expansion of the German Empire, i.e. against Germany, helped both countries save their position in the then Europe. This was the beginning of the 12th century. Ludwik Hungarian, King of Hungary and King of Poland, is synonymous with the first human union that took place between both crowns and both countries, and his daughter, St.Jadwiga, was married to Władysław Jagiełła, the founder of the great dynasty, which played a key role in Central and Eastern Europe for nearly 200 years. High Izbo, the Polish-Hungarian relations speak well of two things. The first one is a hot-rolled wine made of dried grapes, which in Poland had a high price and for centuries was synonymous with good liquor. I will remind you of such little known historical fact that a barrel of good coal in the first Polish Republic cost 100 PLN. It was a huge amount of money, and that's why there was temptation, also for business reasons, to forge this alcohol. But the brand of Hungary and its fame have moved on to our relationship. And the second element, perhaps more important, is the barbershop sword, associated with King Stefan Batory, who waged a victorious war with Russia. And peace in Jamie Zapolski of 1582 led to Russia not being able to increase its strength and build its power for more than a century because it had no direct access to the Baltic Sea. It was important for our country, especially in the 17th century, when we had Swedish wars and other armed conflicts. The High Izbo, the basic weapon of Polish driving from that very period, the barbershop sword, passed, so to speak, into the legend as a transitional weapon between the modern sword and the sword, which was used in the Middle Ages. It was a basic weapon on the equipment of Polish driving. And the Polish army, just like the Hungarian army, with a barracks, with a sword of this kind had wonderful victories for centuries. Let's move on to closer times. The year 1848 when the Polish emigration government in Paris supported the Hungarian uprising, or finally the year 1920, when under the bustling of Bolshevik Hungary, as the only country in central Europe, gave military aid to Poland... Let me remind you that the Hungarian authorities wanted to send 30,000 soldiers to this war as aid to Poland. It was Czechoslovakia that opposed the army to go through and participate directly in the war activities under the Bolshevik Upheaval. Finally, 1956, the year of Poznań's June and October transformations in Poland, but also in Hungary the year of dramatic events... much more dramatic, in the sense that they absorbed much more victims. High Izbo, forgive me for my personal reflection. In 1968, my mother and I went to Budapest with friends of my parents who were already dead. I remember when I was a little boy. That this family... I'm not gonna name her right now. When they talked about the events of 1956. And it was, I repeat, 1968, where the curtains were hidden in this apartment, in Budapest, in the cathedrals. And my parents talked to this family in German so that the children wouldn't understand. There were many details and dramas that were, of course, hidden from public opinion, both in Hungary and in Poland. The truth about these events was not in public. So that the events in question were dramatic. And it is worth recalling that Polish youth and Polish authorities organized humanitarian aid, food aid and medicine for the fighting Hungarians in 1956. Such aid was organised with the aid of rail transport, but also air transport. High Izbo, all these facts, so briefly presented, from our mutual history, show that our present generations have an important role to play in building a stable Europe. The action of the Visegrad Group, its ongoing diplomatic offensive related to the summit in Brussels, as well as the approximation of political positions within the European Union, show that the prospect of political cooperation on the international stage between Budapest and Warsaw is important to stabilise the situation not only in Central Europe but also throughout the European Union. Therefore, establishing 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity is of particular importance for building our mutual relations. The resolution, which I will read in a moment, will be in a one-sounding form taken both by the Senate and by the Parliament of the Republic of Poland and the National Assembly of Hungary. This shows how important our parliaments attach to building mutual relations based on centuries-old proven friendship, but also on the fact that we have common interests. Our geopolitical position, our situation in today's Europe, shows us that we should work together as closely as possible. High Izbo, let me read the text of the resolution. Draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. To commemorate the 60th anniversary of the anti-communist rebellion in Poznań in June 1956 and the 60th anniversary of the uprising in Hungary in October and November 1956. The Polish-Hungarian Parliament and Senate and the National Assembly of Hungary, convinced of the special importance of these events for the common history of the two Nations, establish 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. The heroic break between Poles and Hungarians was a manifestation of our eternal desire for freedom and protest against the enslavement of the entire region as a result of the partition of Europe imposed after World War II. Mutual solidarity and the assistance of our Nations in 1956 represent a special value to be remembered together. The resolution was adopted by the National Assembly of Hungary, the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. This is the text of the resolution. High Izbo, I regret that we do not have the legal option of adopting such a resolution by acclamation, so the Marshal will vote. I would like to thank all those who contributed to this initiative, both on the Hungarian side and on the Polish Parliament's side. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u3	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicant, Senator Stanisław Gogacz and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski want to speak yet? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted to the committee. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. The vote on the proposed amendment will first be held. After this vote, we will proceed with the vote on the draft resolution, print No 79 S, in full with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and Stanisław Gogach. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 77 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the establishment of 2016 by the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity, together with the amendments resulting from the adopted amendment. Who among your senators is in favour of a resolution? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of 2016 as the Year of Polish-Hungarian Solidarity. [[Applause]] I would now like to present a resolution to the ambassador, Dr. Iván Gyurcsík. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador and Mr.... Excuse me, goodbye... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to thank the Ambassador and the Counselor very much for coming to our meeting during such an important resolution. Thank you very much. We begin to consider item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 170th anniversary of the Chochołowski Uprising. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 90, and the report is published in print No 90 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to read a short text of the resolution on the 100th 70th anniversary of the Chochołowski Uprising, because probably in connection with the mode we adopted, not all senators had the chance to read this text. So first, a brief text. The Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 170th anniversary of the Chochołowski Uprising pays tribute to the highlanders The participants of the uprising. Highlanders from Chochołów, Cichego, Dzianisz and Witowo inspired by priest Leopold Kmietowicz and a respected teacher and organist Jan Kanty Andrusikiewicz started their uprising against the Austrians on the night of 21 and 22 February 1846. The uprising, though short, was the first such clear appearance of the mountaineers against the possessor. To this day, the memory of the brave insurgents is alive on Podhale. The patriots and the repressions they faced for the break of independence. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Today at 9.37 a meeting of the Legislative Commission took place and the content of this resolution was adopted unanimously. If you don't mind, I'll only say in a few sentences what was the motivation of the Senator's team, the four people who signed the draft resolution. They were: Mrs. Margareta Budner, Mr. Krzysztof Frost, Mr.Rafal the locksmith and saying these words. Because the motivation is as follows, namely from the perspective of the Senate, it seems that we can say about it in such a way that we are today co-creators of Polish historical policy as a Higher Chamber and one of our tasks is to show the richness of Poland's history, the wealth resulting from the phenomena of Polish regionalism. And such a phenomenon was, among other things, a phenomenon. an event which was of fundamental importance to that highlander community in the process of introducing the highlanders to the tradition and widely understood identity of the Polish people. This is all the more important because, as you know perfectly well, in the same year 1846 and in the same weeks and months there was a Gaul slaughter. According to the Austrian State's plans, peasants were to be merely subcontractors of Austrian policy, state policy. The insurgents of Chcholovs broke out of this Austrian project, and thus became real blood showed it. Poles. This breakthrough will later become the foundation of the identity of the highlanders as a Polish nation in literature, in the highlander-Polish legend. We have many such foundations on the scale of Poland as a whole. I think the Senate should show them, turn them on... to remind them of the multicolority of the Polish national tradition. Such an argument was accepted in a non-collateral manner by all participants of today's meeting of the Legislative Commission. And I hope that he will also find favor with all your senators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can ask no more than a minute of questions. Any of you senators want to ask the senator a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please. And Senator Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u6	Senator, first of all, I would like to call for a slightly more rapid response... Today you have tabled this resolution and we are discussing in principle, so to speak, standing on one leg, in front of a block of votes. Well, what I'm saying is that the historical policy you're talking about... I don't agree with your argument that you have to pursue historical politics. I think you just have to study history and tell the truth, consistent with research. And so I want to ask you a question. What we are talking about here is, of course, part of a larger whole, the Krakow Uprising, etc. It's not all here. It's a shame. I want to ask you if the neighbors have contributed to the elimination of the Chocholov Uprising. [[Voice from the room: They contributed.]] Say something about the neighbors. Looks like they were mountain rangers, too, from the neighboring villages. [[Voice from the courtroom: Provocation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u7	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, wait a minute. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me.]] We'll be asking questions in the block. Senator Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask, as part of the follow-up to the previous question, Professor, what key is adopted by the Legislative Commission when it comes to promoting these and not other historical events. Forgive my historical ignorance, but I have also heard that the uprising in question, this episode, was part of a larger whole. And we want to celebrate the episode, not remembering the whole thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u9	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u10	I'll start with, of course... I'll answer in order. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, you are right, of course, as a historian. You know the history we're talking about here. Undoubtedly, as I said in one sentence, but I can, of course, tell you much more about it, the policy of the Austrian state towards the local peasant population was to use the animosities resulting primarily from the ownership situation that was... and in general the situation related to the relations between peasantry and landowners. Notabene, this was a situation that the State itself maintained, in order to disrupt possible mutual support. Thus, as part of the disintegration policy, they wanted to use the peasants of that time to liquidate the uprising that exploded under the leadership of Tyssowski dictator in Krakow. Kraków was then controlled by insurgents for a moment, and also notabene with great resistance. Things happened there in Cracow. And the result of this attempt to oppose Austrian politics was this famous march, the procession of Edward Dembowski, which ended with the intervention of the Austrian general who fired shots at the defenceless population going into the procession. Many people died, including others. Edward Dembowski, which caused the uprising to collapse. But, as it turned out, it was the story that was supposed to happen regularly, i.e. All the peasants were to slaughter all the landowners, which to a large extent happened... The Galic rabbi of Jacob Szela claimed that several hundred manor owners had been murdered. For killing or taking the owner of the court, the robbers received money from local Austrian officials to whom they brought proof of killing or information... This is all described. It was a tragedy of this land. In the Wyspiański wedding, of course, we have a whole passus showing that, so to speak, the sustainability of this tragedy of the Galician slaughter. And it is in this context that the Chochołowskie Uprising should be seen as an event which was not in the logic of the then state authorities, and by historians it is described as an event which in the coming decades constitutes a highlander nation. And it's not just some kind of historical-mythological figure. Today in those lands, this event is the subject of a very lively internal dialogue, because, as you know, you suggested this in a question, the surrounding population, from the Chochołów region, was a participant in the fight against the insurgents. This is specifically about the Black Dunajec, who was involved in the fight against the insurgents and the Austrians de facto led to the liquidation of this uprising not with their hands, but with the hands of the homies. It was also a Polish tragedy, but it shows how we should value our history from the perspective of events that constitute our national community. In the case of the mountaineers, this constitution is the Chochołów. Notabene is a very beautiful place on Polish soil, as you probably know, its buildings still make a huge impression The monument of priest Kmietowicz, the church that stands there, a beautiful wooden building and a museum, which is a regional ethnographic museum, and at the same time a museum that emphasizes Chochołow's phenomenon on the map of Poland. And it seems to me that, by taking advantage of the fact that we have a hundred and seventy anniversary, we can take such an initiative. That's the answer to the senator's question. Undoubtedly, I do not want to claim that the only key to the Polish historical policy proposed by the Law and Justice is the re-integration of the Polish nation. We were destroyed during the period of the Polish People's Republic and only today can we say that we are all Katyn families. However, I am not sure that we can all say that we are Volyn's families, and it is already very doubtful whether we are all Kashubian families, I mean Stutthof 1945, whether we are all Silesian families, exported by the Soviet Army, Krzywy Horn 1945, the truth whether we are all Chocholov's families. The integration of the nation is precisely that we should all be families of all those Poles who deserve it, and not necessarily inherit the memory of those events which should be stigmatized, and those people who have said clearly to the national community. I think that's how our historical policy should look today. And by the way, to both senators, or perhaps to all of them, of course, note: there is no difference between truth and myth, if the foundation is truth. The myth must be created, that's the national awareness that intelligence builds myths. The problem is that myths are built on truth, not on false premises and false intentions, or evil intentions. Myths Construct National Community This is for sure the way it was, and it will be, as long as there are nations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u11	Thank you very much. I don't see... Senator, is there anything else you'd like to say? [[No, no, just...]] Oh, the senator is ready to answer... [[If necessary.]] But there are no more calls, so thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. Since there are no amendments, we can proceed with the vote. We are voting on the resolution on the 170th anniversary of the Chochołowski Uprising. Please, who's in favour of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 73 votes in favour, no one voted against, five senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 170th anniversary of the Chochołowski Uprising. We are returning to the second agenda: the 2016 budget law. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter; it is in print No 76 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The Commission, at its meeting on 18 February, considered all the proposals submitted during the budgetary debate on 17 February on the 2016 budget law and presented the following position to the Senate: the committee recommends the adoption of amendments Nos 1 and 4, 13 and 50 and 60, 84, 85, 92 and 98. In addition, the committee shall inform that under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 Senator Rulewski has amended the content of his proposal, namely Amendment 157 in the table of proposals, and on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7 The Senate's Rules of Procedure have withdrawn their proposals: Senator Antoni Szymański, Amendment 79 in the table of proposals; Senators Borusewicz, Kleina, Czarnobaj, Amendment 147 in the table of proposals; Mr Jan Rulewski Amendment 159 in the table of proposals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Józef Zając, Senator Ryszard Bonisławski, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Jan Rulewski, Grzegorz Bierecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Jan Hamerski, Stanisław Kogut, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Wiesław Kilian, Jarosław Duda, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Piotr Florek, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Marian Poślednik, Marek Borowski, Antoni Szymański, Grzegorz Napierlski, Tomasz Grodzki, Grażyna Sztark, Andrzej Stanisławek, Grzegorz Czelej, Mieczysław Augustyn, Andrzej Wojtyła, Przemysław Termiński, Władysław Komaricki, Leszek Czarbaj, Jan Filip Libicki, Andrzej Borciusz Bosiecz, W. In addition, Senator Kazimierz Klein was the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Would any of these senators like to speak? Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to comment on amendments 12, 86 and 87 signed, among others. by Senator Kleina, and also in the first stage, before the committee considered them, by the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. This amendment, due to the upcoming World Youth Days of Kraków 2016, to a minimum, aimed at inviting young people in Western Europe's camps and further, shelters, perhaps in private individuals, as well as young people from armed conflict areas in Ukraine for these world days. This is included in the intention of the organizers of this world meeting, who are ready to participate in the reception of these young people. Personally, I am proud that our continent, Europe, has adopted almost 2 million refugees and emigrants, although I would like Poland to participate in this particular race for the highest morality. The government of Beata Szydło, the government of good change, cannot separate itself from the rest of Europe with moral cordon, especially since previously the governments of the Republic of Poland have entered into this world convention on refugees. As you know, in April, a solemn assembly is to be held in Poznań, connected with the thousand fiftyth anniversary of the Polish State's adoption of baptism, Christian baptism. It will therefore be difficult to defend itself against accusations of a kind of bigotry. In the course of the committee's work, the government categorically rejected these amendments. This does not only agree with my conscience, but also with the conviction of a small part of the public opinion in Poland and the world. So I declare that I resign from going to Poznań for these ceremonies so that I do not be accused of bigotry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u15	Senator Bierecki reporting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is a very beautiful idea to invite to the World Youth Day, to meet with the Holy Father this youth who lives in areas covered by war, conflict. I understand that these young people, who are Christian youths and who would like to participate in these World Youth Days... This is a very beautiful initiative and no one at the committee meeting questioned this idea, but the resources to support this great event, which will be the World Youth Days... This is an event that will bring much more people to Poland than e.g. The last soccer competition It was Eurocup, wasn't it? For which we built big stadiums for billions. There are small budget resources here, and the effect can be much greater. These appropriations are guaranteed in the budget elsewhere. At the committee meeting, I said that the valuable initiative that Senator Rulewski has put forward was worth supporting, and it would be good if the organisers of the World Youth Days would take this opportunity into account. I know that there will be many sponsors of this holiday, which will be held in Krakow this year. So that I think that the resources for such a valuable initiative will be found and there is no need to make a separate budget line out of this. This was also the reasoning of the members of the committee when we decided to reject this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u17	Thank you very much. Would any of the senators like to speak? Senator Borowski, and then Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I didn't make any costly adjustments. The list of amendments that we will be voting on contains a lot of different, probably valid initiatives to allocate funds to important economic objectives. I am aware that the budget is a kind of drafted document, a closed balance sheet. It is difficult to violate to some extent, so I have limited myself to issues that are extremely important to the Senate. This is the case of the Ombudsman and the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, I know about the political dispute between today's parliamentary majority and the Constitutional Tribunal. It is similar with the Ombudsman, although it may be to a lesser extent here. I think these cases should be put aside. I believe that in the case of the ombudsman, we should act uniformly. I would like to remind you that, in the previous term, we have made cooperation with the spokesperson through a joint effort of the majority and minorities at that time. We have been the authors of some legislative initiatives and we have adopted the principle that the Senate is acting as a defender of civil rights. What the Sejm often doesn't have time for, we assigned to the Senate. It gives us a greater basis to defend the usefulness of the Senate. However, in this project, contrary to what Senator Bierecki said, there is no freezing of funds at last year's level, but there is a manifest decline. There is a 5% drop here, while any other state institution has an increase of about 5%. This is bringing the Ombudsman's budget to 2011 level. I understand that the Sejm could have done it, even though it shouldn't have, but the role of the Senate is to restore the right proportion here. That is why I have tabled a few modest amendments concerning several hundred thousand zlotys - 100, 200 or 300 thousand zlotys. I hope that if not all, then maybe some will be supported, especially those related to firefighters' orders. The spokesman works in historic buildings, where there is a very high risk of fire As well as those relating to renovations and very modest sums to increase employment by 4 posts, which are needed to carry out the Ombudsman's new and old tasks. I'm gonna say the workload's huge in there. It's about $3 million in total. Let me remind you that the spokesperson wanted 10 million more, which was also justified. The budget was cut, but cut in such a way that the money was less than it was before. Ladies and gentlemen, disregarding this fact really puts a shadow on the Senate. It's just embarrassing, and the committee has taken a negative view of these amendments. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, I have already given up pushing for an amendment that increases current expenditure, but I have left one thing behind. Namely, the Constitutional Tribunal, as you may not all know, is obliged to pay the retired judges from its budget. Those who were judges stopped being judges and went to rest. That's the law. It might like it, it might not like it, but that's what it is. And that amount is strictly calculated. You know how much you have to pay, and it's not money for the judges of this term. That's where these measures were cut off completely senseless. And if the retired judges don't get their pay And they're not gonna get it, because the Court can't move funds from others, so to speak, paragraphs, that's not an option. They will simply pursue their own in court and the Treasury will not only pay them, but will pay them later with interest, which means the cost will be higher. What's the point of that, I ask. These are specific proposals. I can't remember exactly right now, but I think number 71, 72... [[Voice from the room: 73.]] Something like that. Really, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of the Court, this is a matter of simply simple logic and compliance with the law, and in the case of the Ombudsman, it is a matter of our role and conscience as Senate. That is why I call for support. These are very modest amounts. Thank you. [[Sin, come on.]] [[I have to correct.]] [[In corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to support some of the amendments that I tabled or reported to a minority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. I'm glad... And I ask that this decision be the decision of the entire House. It is about the amendment concerning the Constitutional Court, which states that the appropriations which the Sejm has taken off the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal will be restored. I would also like to inform the High House that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has unanimously supported this amendment. This is Amendment 4. She's restoring this condition... Not to such an extent that the Constitutional Tribunal will receive, like other institutions, a few percent more than it was in previous years, but to the level of last year. This, of course, in some sense, will allow this institution to function normally. This amendment was supported, as I say, unanimously. I wish I could. And I'm asking you to make it work. In order to maintain this decision also in the vote of the whole House. At the same time, I ask for the support of Amendment 5, which you spoke about, Senator Borowski. He has precautionaryly tabled amendments which reduce this desire to increase funds for the Ombudsman, as well as for the Constitutional Tribunal, but support for these amendments leads to the situation that these institutions will have a budget at the level of last year, not higher, and all institutions, I say again, are just a few percent higher, 5% higher. or 6% Some even more percent. It is simply unnecessary to transfer the conflict around these bodies to budgetary matters when creating the budget. That would only mean that sometimes for some incompetence or another opinion there is a financial penalty. I would also like to ask for the support of one of the amendments that we have tabled together with Senator Rulewski. I would like to support Senator Rulewski's vote. It's rather symbolic because you probably won't be able to support it with your votes. The way in which this problem can be solved, the possibility of young people from conflict areas and refugees taking part in World Youth Day... My amendment, one of the last ones there, concerns only a change in the name of the special-purpose reserve, which gives the possibility to finance such projects. Believe me, I have been working on the budget for many years, and I have more or less an orientation on how these provisions should be formulated so that certain tasks can be fulfilled. As Mr Bierecki said, it is simple and possible, etc. Of course, anything is possible, we know it. Probably even money from the state budget can receive one of the schools, because some Members have tried to make it included in the budget. Probably all of this is possible. Only certain things can be done in a simple way and so that it also speaks to our citizens. So I'm not asking for any extra money here at all, just to change the name of the reserve, which allows it, but doesn't necessarily force it to spend it. And a few more small things from such general cases. It is about the amendment that concerns the reduction of the government budget deficit. Recently, the National Bank of Poland has announced that the contribution to the state budget will be clearly higher than it is currently included in the budget. At the moment we are talking about the amount of PLN 3.2 billion, and the National Bank of Poland is talking about the amount of PLN 8 billion. Maybe less than PLN 8 billion will be paid in, because this is also due to conversions etc., but this amount will be clearly higher. And I would like this amount to be included in the budget as a deficit reduction amount. This is the purpose of the Minister of Finance, the Government and the Prime Minister also at the moment, so that the inclusion of this amount will give a certain guarantee that the funds will not flow over the entire budget for different purposes. Smaller things, but also national ones. I am not talking about individual cases, individual investments, etc., also very important, etc., but these are sort of other cases, which have a symbolic dimension and which are related to the operation of our House. This is about the funds for the Youth Cooperation Fund Poland, the additional symbolic amount that I would ask for, as well as the additional funds for supporting national and ethnic minorities. Every year there was always a problem, but year after year, thanks to the efforts of the Senate, it was possible to make either the same or a little more money. I'm asking you to do that today, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, after these two speeches, I am obliged to inform you about the work of the committee. Speaking of Senator Borowski's speech, I would like to say that the senator in his speech may have included very emotional information, however false. I would like to point out to the senator that the committee recommends the adoption of Amendment 4, which increases the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal by the measures that the senator has so dramatically applied for. Of course, the decision of the High House will be expressed in the vote, but it seems to me, Senator, that your criticism was somewhat premature, so to speak. As regards the issues of the Ombudsman's budget I also refer to Senator Borowski's speech. That, well, the spokesperson wanted 10 million more, the senator thinks that 3 million would be enough for the spokesperson, the Sejm thought there was no need to add anything... We, after hearing the arguments contained in the Seym transcripts, felt that it was unlikely that this budget would need to be increased. If there are local problems, if there is a fire hazard in the historical space, it can be solved in another way, e.g. transferring the seat of the Ombudsman to another place. During the debate, I allowed myself to be digressed, pointing them to Poznań as a place where they could find their headquarters. After all, for many years I have been in favour of centralising these offices so that important institutions can be found in different regions. I mean, that would be great. [[Radom.]] [[Voice from the hall: in Rzeszow.]] [[Krakow.]] [[In Cracow.]] Maybe instead of renovating this historic building, it would be cheaper to give them modern, functional offices that are in the resources of other agencies. This problem can be addressed in a different way without the need to increase budget expenditure. Finally, the issue of payment from the National Bank of Poland. I'm yours. He's guilty of information. I asked the National Bank of Poland for an explanation of the press release, which announced that the payment from the National Bank of Poland to the budget will be higher this year, significantly higher. In the budget we have PLN 3.2 billion, and the press release talked about more than PLN 8 billion, which is the difference of almost PLN 5 billion. After all, we will all be very happy if this proves true, but the information I received from the Vice President of the National Bank of Poland shows that this amount is set before the audit. It results from various accounts, accounting activities, to a large extent in the National Bank of Poland, and thus the actual amount of this payment will be determined by auditors who will examine the report of the National Bank of Poland in March. It will be adopted in accordance with the rules of the Monetary Policy Council and subsequently, in April, will be approved by the Council of Ministers. So we are still ahead of this process and putting a different number here, of a different value than the one that Members accepted in the Sejm, would be risky. That's what I'd say. If it turns out that the deposit from the National Bank of Poland will be higher, then of course we will all sing Hallelujah for this reason. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u23	You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator Bierecki, I would ask you to be serious about what I said and not manipulate the data. It is not that the Ombudsman proposed 10 million more than the execution in 2015, the Sejm took the 10 million away from him, I offered 3 million more than the execution last year, and the committee decided that it did not have to be added at all and it would be as it was last year. It's not like that. The Ombudsman proposed 10 million more than last year, and the Sejm not only did not agree to the 10 million, but it also reduced its budget. The implementation of the Ombudsman's budget in 2015 was 37 million 603 thousand, and the Sejm decided that the Ombudsman's budget would be 35 million 619 thousand. [[That's a lot of money.]] So that not only did he not agree to an additional $10 million, but he cut that budget, and that budget came to us. And my proposal, which closes not in one amendment, but in five scattered amendments... Only some of them can be accepted, but even if they were all adopted, the Ombudsman's budget would be 3 million more than in the proposal, i.e. about 38 million 600 000 Only 1 million more than in the previous year, specifically 3% or 4% More. But only part of the amendments can be accepted and it will be the same budget as the previous year. So, Mr. Senator, really be honest about this. You've manipulated before, you've tried to convince everyone that the budget is even frozen at the same level. It's just not true. As far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, I would really appreciate it, and I would be honoring the name of the Senators of Law and Justice, if the amendment you mentioned, perhaps No 4, is accepted. But I don't think that's gonna happen, Senator, because the recommendation you were talking about, the committee's recommendation, was backed up by your statement that the PiS senators were wrong. That's why I'm saying it's just not worth it, it's not worth it... We have to take it. Once again, if this recommendation is accepted, Senator, I will personally thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski, then Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to comment on Amendment 157. Today, the whole of Poland, especially on TVs, but also all those who already set up for huge queues after payouts under the system or programme 500+, live this problem. I am interested in the success of this programme, but during the consultations and even during the work of the Senate, it appears that this unparalleled financial and organisational programme, comprising 2 million 700 000 decisions concerning 3.5 million children, decisions which are to be implemented backwards and by newly employed officials within one month, raises considerable concerns. It's a government program and the government has rightly foreseen a grant for its implementation, but the grant has to do with it that it doesn't have to be used or... The governments of the Civic Platform have been cost-effective in spending all subsidies. The proposed amendment aims to ensure that, within the framework of grants, there is nothing to reduce or increase, the resources for the staff allowances that will take decisions. They will be the only ones who will be able to take them on granting or refusing to grant parental benefits. I propose that this action be ad hoc by the end of 2016, because it is not true that the newest employees will be able to enter the decision-making process immediately from the march. The expectations of those concerned are enormous. The figures are huge, too. And it's possible to correct it. In other words, if these workers, as they said, do not work on Wednesdays, Fridays and holidays, the whole operation, even if it is accompanied by good intentions, may be broken by a shortage of resources. I think that at this point we should remember those who depend on the success of this programme, namely those workers.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u27	Senator Józef Zając and then Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am aware that my amendment will be rejected. However, I would like to say a few words about the problem that I have addressed you with. I'm talking about a national road, some of which has been going through the city for a dozen years. It is the only access road to the border crossing in Dorohusk and it is in this condition... At the moment, some parts of this road are closed in mid-width due to the fact that it is no longer possible to drive there. Most of the traffic towards Ukraine, especially freight traffic, is taking place that way. If you had a chance to see this, I think so. Each of you would change your mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u30	Mr Marshal, referring to the speech by Senator Rulewski, who in his amendment would like to provide additional funds for the remuneration of employees who will be involved in the 500+ programme, I would like to tell you that we have received information from a government representative that the measures necessary for the implementation of the programme are already in the budget and have been adopted. There is therefore no need to make such an increase here. I would like to thank the senator for his concern and interest in the success of the programme. We thank the senator very much for supporting the government's 500+ program so strongly. However, we trust government representatives who have informed us of the need for such an increase. The resources are already in place... I'm sorry, not to increase, but to accept the amendment. I'm sorry. It is not necessary to adopt this amendment because the measures for all of this are provided and planned in accordance with the assumptions adopted by the government of the programme. As for the amendment made by Senator Hare regarding the road to Dorohusk, I am joining the senator's appeal. Probably all the senators from Lublin join this call to the Minister of Infrastructure to include, as part of the existing funds for road renovations already in this budget, an investment related to this road, which is indeed in a scandalous state. I think that as Senators from Lublin, we will certainly make such a request to the Minister of Infrastructure. So there's no need, Mr. Senator, to accept the amendment, especially... I think we all know what this road looks like and that it needs to be renovated. As far as Senator Borowski is concerned, in the interests of the economy of this House's work, and in respect of the time of the state and of the senators, I will not refer to this speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u31	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators. I would remind you that the following applicants withdrew their conclusions: Senator Antoni Szymański, Amendment 79 in print No. 76 Z, Senators Bogdan Borusewicz, Kazimierz Kleina and Leszek Czarnobaj Amendment 147 in the same printing; Senator Jan Rulewski Amendment 159 in print No 76 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? Mr. Senator, right? [[I don't want to sustain you, Mr. Marshal, but I want to speak.]] But in what mode? [[As an applicant.]] In what mode? [[As one of the applicants, Mr. Marshal.]] No, Mr. Senator. I read the names of the senators of the applicants who withdrew their applications. Senator, yes, he was mentioned before, but there was a time to make a motion... [[The point is, there's no amendment that I made. That's it, Mr. Marshal.]] Is there a mistake? I understand, Senator. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u32	I have tabled four amendments, which I have also commented on. I noticed that one of them isn't in this set.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u33	I see. We'll fill it in in in a minute. Thank you, Senator. We're gonna take a break for this amendment to be in the mix. I repeat the question: do any of your senators wish to maintain the withdrawn amendments that I mentioned earlier? There are no volunteers. I'm calling a five-minute recess until 11:15. Well, it'll be a little more than five minutes. Seven minutes. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 8 to 11 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. Senator Piotr Zientarski reporting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u34	Mr. Marshal, I withdraw this amendment... [[Which, Mr. Senator, we need to look at...]] [[Voices from the hall: The one that doesn't exist...]] I was just... [[Oh, she's not...]] That amendment that wasn't in the mix... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking for a brief reference...]] It was about 800,000 PLN for medical rescue in Szczecin, it was about an ambulance. [[In Szczecin.]] Yeah, in Szczecin. I withdraw this amendment. I'm gonna make an effort to make it happen, so to speak... [[A good cause, I understand.]] ...a fair undertaking with other means.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u35	Good. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators wish to uphold the earlier amendment made by Senator Piotr Ziientarski concerning the ambulance in Szczecin? There are no volunteers. The amendment has been withdrawn. [[Voice from the room: in Szczecin?]] In Szczecin. That's what the senator said. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 increases the expenses of the Senate Office by PLN 2 million 501 thousand, intended for personal salaries of PLN 2 million 107 thousand, at the expense of reducing the reserve for the new seat of the National Judicial Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, everyone voted in favour. [[Voting No 5]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 moves 2 million PLN from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to education intended to educate teachers for Polonia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 concerns the financial plan of the Agency for the Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture. The amendment does not change the amount of revenue and expenditure, but allows the Agency to implement subsidies to the temporary line of turnover credits to finance the costs of agricultural production during the waiting period for the payment for 2015. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 increases the budget of the Constitutional Tribunal by PLN 1 million, 650 000. at the expense of the reduction of the general reserve of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 51 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] The amendment was rejected. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 5 increases the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 3 million 300 000 at the expense of reducing the general reserve of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 55 were against it. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 6 increases the resources for voivodship roads by PLN 60 million at the expense of a reduction in funds for foreign debt management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 24 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 7 increases the funds for municipal roads by 200 million at the expense of a reduction in external debt support. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] $200 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 24 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 8 increases the funding of Polish-Ukrainian youth cooperation by PLN 1 million at the expense of reducing funding by the National Wyborcze Office for statutory election and referendum tasks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 54 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 9 increases property expenditure by PLN 30 million for the modernisation of the national road No 12 within the city of Chełma at the expense of reserve No 8 and co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 54 against. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 creates a new reserve for the city of Łódź with 150 million PLN of expenditure at the expense of handling the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 56 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 10 was rejected. Amendment 11 creates a reserve for the financing of Stegna skating track in Warsaw with the amount of expenses of PLN 60 million at the expense of the reserve from the item. 49 • Maintaining the results of certain projects carried out with the participation of funds from the European Union, including information systems. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 12 creates a new special-purpose reserve, helping to invite and stay at World Youth Day for people from armed conflict areas and from refugee families, with the cost of spending PLN 660 000 at the expense of the National Election Office's reserve to finance statutory election tasks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 53 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 12 was rejected. Amendment 13 consists in transferring PLN 3 million 419 thousand from property expenditure to current expenditure in the budget of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 83 were in favour, that is, all of them. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 14 reduces the deficit of the state budget by PLN 5 billion resulting from the increase of the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 56 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 14 was rejected. Amendment 15 increases grants and subsidies by PLN 1 million for non-governmental organisations operating under part of the Religious Declarations and national and ethnic minorities at the expense of funding by the National Election Office for statutory election and referendum tasks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 16 creates a new reserve for the purchase of real estate under expressway No 6 on the section from Tricity to Słupsk with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 10 million at the expense of funding by the National Wyborcze Office for statutory election and referendum tasks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 59 against. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 16 was rejected. Amendment 17 increases the revenue of the State's corporate income tax by PLN 30 million to increase expenditure on starting preparatory work related to the construction of the Mszana Dolna and Limana ring road on the national road No 28. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 77 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Correction denied. Amendment 18 increases the revenue of the State's corporate income tax budget by PLN 30 million to increase expenditure on starting preparatory work related to the construction of the national road No 47 on the Rabka section of the New Market. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 4 were in favour, 75 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 18 was rejected. Amendment 19, at the expense of handling the Treasury debt, increases expenditure on modernization of national road No 3 by PLN 300 million by building third free lanes on the section Jelenia Góra Bolków. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 23 for, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 19 was rejected. Amendment 20... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. Gentlemen of the Senators, you're intruding. Amendment 20, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure by PLN 30 million on the modernisation of railway line No 274 Jelenia Góra (Wroclaw). Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 21, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on the protection of monuments and the care of monuments in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship by PLN 30 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Now which one, number 21? [[Voice from the room: No 22.]] Amendment 22, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases by PLN 20 million the expenditure on the construction of bypasses during the national road No. 30. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 22 was rejected. Amendment 23, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on the construction of pavements on national road No 3 in Piechocice and Wojciejszyce near Jelenia Góra by PLN 10 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 23 - Rejected. Amendment 24, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on the construction of the Legnica ring road by PLN 1 million on the national road 94. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 24 was rejected. Amendment No 25, at the expense of reserve No 8 and the co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases expenditure on the revitalisation of Wałbrzych districts by PLN 150 million. Demoted mining sites. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 26, at the expense of reserve No 8.Co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases the expenditure of PLN 129 million 715 thousand for the construction of the Culture Centre in Wałbrzych by PLN 129 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 30]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 27, at the expense of reserve No. 8.Co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases expenditure on the extension of the University Clinical Hospital in Wrocław by PLN 3.5 million, building C The Trans-regional Centre for Adult Oncology and Paediatrics. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 25 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 28, at the expense of reserve No 8 and the co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 3 million the expenditure on the construction of the bypassing of the south-western town of Świdnica on the national road No 35. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 28 was rejected. Amendment 29, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on the construction of the Oława ring road by PLN 50 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 29 was rejected. Amendment 30 at the expense of handling the Treasury's debt increases expenditure on the construction of the Głogów ring road, together with the bridge crossing over the national road No 12 and land purchase by PLN 2 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 31, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure by PLN 2 million for the implementation of the project work related to the reconstruction of the national road No 39 in the section Łagiewniki Highway A4 with the return of the exit to the A4 motorway. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 55 against. [[Voting No 35]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 32, at the expense of reserve No 8 and the co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 20 million the expenditure on renovation of the interior of the cathedral of St. Stanisława and St. Wenceslas in Świdnica Śląska. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 33 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 250 million to increase expenditure on the construction of the northern ring road of Krakow. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 59 against. [[Voting No 37]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 34 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 100 million to increase the expenditure on the reconstruction of the bridge to the river Dunajec during the national road no. 28 in Nowy Sącz and the construction of the ring road No. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 35 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 100 million for the increase of expenditure on the construction of the Tarnów ring road and the modernisation of the national road No 73 Kielce Tarnów. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 36 increases the revenue of the state budgets by PLN 100 million to increase expenditure on the reconstruction of the national road No 28 and the construction of the Limanowa, Grybow and Gorlic bypasses. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 24 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 40]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 37 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million to increase expenditure on the construction of the Zabierowa ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 57 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 38 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million to increase expenditure on the construction of the Skawina ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 39 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 20 million to increase expenditure on the construction of the Zator ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 60 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 40 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 300 million to increase expenditure on land purchase and construction of the S1 Mysłowice expressway Bielsko-Biała along with the Oświęcim ring road. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 44]] Correction denied. Amendment 41 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 5 million to increase expenditure on the project work of the Beskidzki Integration Road Bielsko-Biała Kraków. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 for, 56 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 45]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 42 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 50 million to increase expenditure on the construction of the national road (GP) No 47 Rustawka Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted against, 25 against, 59 against. [[Voting No 46]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 43 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 45 million for the increase of expenditure on design work and reconstruction of the national road No 75 Bresto, Nowy Sącz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted against, 25 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 47]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 44 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 2 million to increase expenditure on the reconstruction of the national road No 94 Olkusz Kraków. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 23 for, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 48]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 45, at the expense of reserve no. 8.Co-financing of projects implemented with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 30 million expenditure on construction of the Beskidzki Integration Road Bielsko-Biała Kraków, documentation, land purchase. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 23 for, 59 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 46 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 200 million to increase expenditure on the financing of the local government's own tasks for the reconstruction of the national road No 79 in Krakow ul. Igolomian. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted against, 24 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 50]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 47, at the expense of handling the Treasury debt, increases expenditure on the National Revalorisation Fund of Krakow's Monuments by PLN 10 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 24 for, 58 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 51]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 48, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on mountain rescue for GOPR and TOPR by PLN 10 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 27 for, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 49, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on the prevention and eradication of natural disasters by PLN 70 million and the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba reservoir. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 26 for, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 53]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 50 increases the expenditure of the Institute of National Remembrance by PLN 5 million totalling PLN 477 thousand, including the remuneration in the chapter of the Supreme Authorities of the State Authority, the control and protection of the law, by PLN 489, and in the chapter of the National Remembrance Institute by PLN 853 thousand, at the expense of the reserve for the seat of the National Council of Courts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 61 for, 4 against, 19 abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 51 is of an order nature and restores the proper name of the special-purpose reserve in item 1. 34. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 Senators voted, 82 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 55]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 52 increases by PLN 8 million the grant to the Church Fund for the renovation of historical sacral buildings and the support of ecclesiastical charity and care activities, at the expense of the reserve for the financing by the National Election Office of statutory tasks concerning elections and referendums. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 78 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 56]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 53 aims to finance salaries in the sport department in connection with the tasks of the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games in 2016 and the tasks imposed by public health regulations by increasing expenditure by PLN 1 million, 252 thousand, at the expense of reducing expenditure of the National Radio and Television Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 81 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 57]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 54 aims to ensure timely and professional legal service of claims related to the bankruptcy of travel agencies by increasing the remuneration in the tourism department by PLN 452 thousand, at the expense of reducing expenditure of the National Radio and Television Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 25 against. [[Voting No 58]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 55 increases expenditure on salaries at the National Election Office by PLN 3 million, at the expense of reducing subsidies for municipalities to keep a permanent electoral register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 23 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 59]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 56 increases current expenditure, including salaries, in the State Labour Inspection by PLN 5 million 395 thousand, at the expense of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 57 consists in moving 120 thousand PLN within the budget of the Lesser Poland Voivodship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 80 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 61]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 58 allocates PLN 35 million to the remuneration of retired prosecutors and the remuneration of prosecutors, at the expense of the reserve for the new seat of the National Judicial Council, and adapts the name of the reserve to the actual allocation of the remaining budget resources. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 75 against, 2 against, 7 abstentions. [[Voting No 62]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 59 adds a new special reserve for the renovation and adaptation of historic mall buildings for the State Higher Vocational School. Cegielski's hippolita in Gniezno, with the amount of grants and subsidies of PLN 3 million, at the expense of the reserve for the seat of the National Court Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 5 against, 20 abstentions. [[Voting No 63]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 60 adds a new special reserve for the design of the Stanisław Pyjas monument in Krakow in the year preceding the 40th anniversary of his death, with the amount of current expenditure of the budget units of PLN 100 thousand, at the expense of the National Radio and Television Council. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 2 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 64]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 61 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 400 million from the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland, intended to increase expenditure on the development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 25 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 65]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 62, at the expense of reserve number 8 and the co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 6 million the expenditure on the construction of the September ring road on the national road No 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 24 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 66]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 63, at the expense of reserve No. 8 and the co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 3 million 600 thousand the expenditure on the reconstruction of the bridge facility during Bernardine Street in Konin. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 56 against. [[Voting No 67]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 64 creates a new special-purpose reserve. The anniversary of the Baptism of Poland revalorization of sacral monuments of Gniezna with the amount of property expenses of PLN 16 million, at the expense of the reserve for financing by the National Election Office of statutory tasks concerning elections and referendums. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 68]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 65 increases payments from the National Bank of Poland's profit by PLN 5 billion, intended to reduce the deficit of the state budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 69]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 66 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 800 million from the payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland, for the construction of a water and retention tank in Wielkieś Klasztorna. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 25 against, 58 against. [[Voting No 70]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 67 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 15 million 500 thousand for the construction of the Western Centre for Heart Diseases and Dishes in Poznań. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 71]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 68 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 26 million, intended for the construction of the S11 expressway on the section Kórnik Kępno, preparatory work. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 72]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 69 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the modernisation of the headquarters of the Polish Radio Chamber Orchestra in Poznań. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 73]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 70 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the maintenance and operation of water melioration facilities in the Wielkopolska Voivodship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 74]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 71, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on expansion of operating rooms at the Orthopedic and Rehabilitation Clinical Hospital by PLN 3 million. Degi in Poznań. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 75]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 72, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases expenditure on the construction and equipment of the Faculty of Innovative Pharmaceutical Technology of the Medical University by PLN 1 million. Marcinkowski in Poznań. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 73, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases by PLN 1 million 70 thousand expenditure on the salaries of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal at rest and family allowances. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 77]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 74, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 1 million 200 000 for the exchange of custom windows in the building at ul. Longer and the exchange of outdated IT equipment. [[Voice from the room: Who?]] The Ombudsman, intended for exchange... I've already read that. It's about the ombudsman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 83 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 78]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 75, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 1 million, with a 5% increase in salaries and 4 posts for the Criminal Law Team and the National Prevention Mechanism by PLN 721 thousand. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 23 for, 55 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 79]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 76, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 500 000 for the renovation of the staircase of the building at al. Solidarity 77 - adaptation to fire regulations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 25 for, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 80]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 77, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 163 thousand for a project to adjust the building at ul. Longer to fire requirements and modernization of the electrical system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted against, 27 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 81]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 78, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, increases the expenditure of the Ombudsman by PLN 961,000 for the exchange of lighting of the building at al. Solidarity in Warsaw and the exchange of windows in the building at ul. Longer. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted against, 25 against, 55 against. [[Voting No 82]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 80, at the expense of the general reserve, creates a special reserve for the renovation of the Faculty of Information Technology at the University of Technology, with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 1 million 520,000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 for, 59 against. [[Voting No 83]] The amendment was rejected. Someone's on the phone. Senator, if you'll excuse me, you can go outside and talk. It doesn't matter. [[I'm sorry.]] Well, here you go. Amendment 81, at the expense of the general reserve, creates a special reserve for the renovation of the Faculty of Information Technology at the University of Technology, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 1 million 150 thousand. Construction works - 170 thousand PLN; modernization of central heating - 98 thousand PLN. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 23 for, 57 against. [[Voting No 84]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 82, at the expense of the general reserve, creates a special reserve for the renovation of the Faculty of West Pomeranian Information Technology University, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 2 million 130 thousand Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 80 senators voted, 23 for, 57 against. [[Voting No 85]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 83, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, creates a special reserve for the purchase of magnetic resonance imaging for the Regional Hospital in Kołobrzeg, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 4 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 for, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 86]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 84 shifts 120 thousand PLN from the part of the economy to the part of the maritime economy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 75 for, 7 against. [[Voting No 87]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 85 shifts 22 thousand PLN from the part of the economy to the part of the economy with fossil deposits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 76 votes against, 3 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 88]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 86, at the expense of the special reserve "Supplement to Police, Border Guard, State Fire Guard and Government Protection Office," including the visit of the Holy Father during World Youth Day, creates a reserve "Help for the invitation and stay on World Youth Day for young people from refugee backgrounds and areas affected by armed conflict in Ukraine," with the amount of expenditure of current budget units of PLN 660 thousand. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: The system is not working.]] [[Voice from the room: Something's not working.]] [[It doesn't display...]] The system's overheated. [[Voice from the room: It's already working.]] It doesn't work for me... [[It's working, it's working.]] [[Voice from the room: Now it's working.]] It's working. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 82 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 89]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 87 extends the objective of the reserve from the item. 69 to assist in the invitation and stay at World Youth Day for young people from areas affected by armed conflicts and from families of refugees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 90]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 88, at the expense of the President's Office's budget, increases expenditure on the activities of the Academy of Arts in Szczecin by PLN 5 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 25 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 91]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 89, at the expense of the Treasury's debt, creates a reserve for the construction of a tuberculosis medicinal pavilion and other infectious lung diseases at the Specialist Hospital. Prof. Sokołowski in Szczecin, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 30 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 59 against. [[Voting No 92]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 90, at the expense of reserve No 8 and co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 160 million the expenditure on rebuilding the entry into the city of Szczecin from the A6 motorway to the street. Florian Krygier. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 59 against. [[Voting No 93]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 91, at the expense of reserve No 8.The co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases by PLN 8 million the expenditure on the preparation of the design documentation of the Western bypass of Szczecin along with the crossing of Police Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 94]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 92 changes the name of the special-purpose reserve to item 92. 88 for the "Modernization of the Dental Centre of the Medical University of Lublin." Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 79 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 95]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 93 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 350 million for railway works on sections of Bydgoszcz Okay, I'm gonna The Cross and Poznań saw. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 96]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 94 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the reconstruction and modernisation of the ZOZ Hospital in Czarnkow. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 97]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 95 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 5 million for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Health Care Facility in Grodzisk Wielkopolski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 98]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 96 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 100 million for the reconstruction of DK11 road within the administrative limits of Piła city and the reconstruction of DK11 and DK10 roads. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 97 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 10 million for the reconstruction of the tunnel connecting the PKP railway station building with the city of Piła and the repair of railway stations in Budzyń, Złotów, Krajence, Osieku and Biośliwiu... [[Bia...]] Bio... [[It should be in Białośliew.]] But it's bio. Okay, if it should be Bia, it's Bia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 100]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 98 moves PLN 259 000 from the foreign minister's budget to the Minister of Labour budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 76 were in favour, 4 against, 1 the senator abstained. [[Voting No 101]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 99, at the expense of the general reserve, increases the expenditure of the Energy Regulatory Office by PLN 1 million 800 thousand. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 54 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 102]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment No 100, at the expense of reserve No 8 and co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds, increases the expenditure on railway infrastructure by PLN 150 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 103]] Amendment 100 was rejected. Amendment 101 creates a new special-purpose reserve for the building of the Faculty of Chemistry of the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 38 million, at the expense of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 24 against, 57 against. [[Voting No 104]] The amendment was rejected. It's time for a technical break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 102 creates a new special-purpose reserve for the installation of the fire protection system of the building of the Faculty of Physics of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 1 million 300 thousand, at the expense of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 24 against, 56 against. [[Voting No 105]] The amendment was rejected. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u36	Amendment 103 creates a new special-purpose reserve for the activities of the Secondary School and the Academic High School of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, with the amount of property expenses of PLN 150 thousand, at the expense of the general budget reserve of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 106]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 104 increases NBP's payments by PLN 200 million to increase subsidies for water management and flood protection in Żuławy and Powiśle. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 107]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 105 increases the VAT revenue by PLN 10 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve. Resumption/documentation of the construction of the ring-roads of Kwidzyna and Malborka within the national road 55. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 108]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 106 increases VAT revenue by PLN 100 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 25 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 109]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 107 adds a new special-purpose reserve to the Koszalin railway station, with the amount of property expenditure of PLN 20 million, at the expense of the co-financing of projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 110]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 108 increases property expenditure in part by PLN 300 million for the construction of the S11 road between Koszalin and Bobolicy, at the cost of co-financing projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 111]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 109 reduces expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt by PLN 1.5 million, for the purpose of adding a new special reserve for the Gothic church from the 14th century, on the occasion of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary in Fame. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 3 abstained. [[Voting No 112]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 110 increases revenue from taxes and other contributions to the State budget by PLN 1.5 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the purchase and adaptation of real estate for the creation of a special kindergarten in Shamotula. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 113]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 111 increases revenue from taxes and other contributions to the State budget by PLN 20 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of a new school-education facility in Zbąszenie. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 21 senators voted in favour, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 114]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 112 reduces current expenditure in the general offices of the state authorities, control and protection of the law by PLN 446 thousand, for the purpose of increasing current expenditure in part of the Silesian Voivodeship for medical rescue, for salary increases, for 68.7 of the staff of nurses in medical rescue teams of sub-contractors of the voivodship emergency service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 115]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 113 reduces the expenditure of the President's Office by PLN 3 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the purpose of the reconstruction and modernisation of flood shafts in the city of Częstochowa as part of the programme for the Oder 2006. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 116]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 114 reduces KPRM's expenditure by PLN 500 000 for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve for the better future of young people Podkarpacie. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 26 senators voted in favour, 55 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 117]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 115 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 20 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for water supply in the municipality of Koniecpol. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 118]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 116 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 10 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the purpose of repair and equipment of the Beskidz Hematology Department of the Centre for Urban Oncology in Bielsko Biała. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 25 senators voted in favour, 54 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 119]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 117 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 10 million, for the purpose of drawing up the design documentation of the Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 120]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 118 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 6 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve for the renovation of the rectorate building of the University of Economics in Katowice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 54 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 121]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 119 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-Corruption Office by PLN 3 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the renovation of the building of Christ the King's Cathedral in Katowice Stage IV. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 122]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 120 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 3 million, intended for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve, to comply with the requirements of the City Football Stadium in Częstochowa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 123]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 121 reduces current expenditure at the Central Anti-corruption Office by PLN 1 million for drawing up the design documentation of the link between S1 and DK94 connecting investment areas with Euroterminal in Sławków. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 27 senators voted in favour, 55 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 124]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 122 reduces the expenditure on handling the Treasury's debt by PLN 56 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the N-S route in Ruda Śląska linking the A4 motorway to the A4 motorway. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 26 senators voted in favour, 56 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 125]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 123 reduces the expenditure on handling the Treasury's debt by PLN 34.5 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of a fire station at the Central School of State Fire Service in Częstochowa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 126]] I state that the amendment has been rejected. Amendment 124 reduces expenditure on handling the Treasury's debt by PLN 8 million, intended for the modernisation of railway line No 158 on the section Wodzisław Śląski (Wodzisław Śląski) Chalupka through the construction of the second track and construction of the railway stop Wodzisław Śląski Centrum. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 25 senators voted in favour, 56 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 127]] I conclude that Amendment 124 was rejected. Amendment 125 reduces the expenditure on handling the Treasury's debt by PLN 6 million, intended for revitalization of railway line 140 on section Rybnik Handlowy. Nędza by repairing the existing railway line. [[The voice from the hall: Liberty with the tyranny.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 128]] I conclude that Amendment 125 was rejected. Amendment 126 reduces expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt by PLN 5 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the Solidarity House in Jastrzębie-Zdrój stage I. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 22 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 5 abstained. [[Voting No 129]] I conclude that Amendment 126 was rejected. Amendment 127 reduces current expenditure from the general reserve by PLN 30 million, intended for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the Centre for the Scientific and Dydactic Transport of Railways of the Silesian University of Technology in Gliwice with location in Sosnowiec Maczki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 22 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 130]] I conclude that Amendment 127 was rejected. Amendment 128 reduces current expenditure from the general reserve by PLN 14 million for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve, reconstruction, extension of the Kucelinka Canal flood shafts in Częstochowa. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 131]] I conclude that Amendment 128 was rejected. Amendment 129 reduces current expenditure from the general reserve by PLN 8 million 295 thousand, intended for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve. Jan Długosz in Częstochowa near Al. Home Army 36A. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 132]] I conclude that Amendment 129 was rejected. Amendment 130 reduces the current expenditure from the general reserve by PLN 4 million, intended for the creation of a new special-purpose reserve. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 133]] I conclude that Amendment 130 was rejected. Amendment 131 increases by PLN 250 million property expenditure in the part of Transport for the contribution of the state budget to the construction of the missing section of S69 Przybydz The Militia of Hungary Górka, at the expense of funding for co-financing projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 57 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 134]] I conclude that Amendment 131 was rejected. Amendment 132 increases by PLN 50 million the property expenditure in part of the Silesian Voivodeship for the elimination of damage to municipal and district road and bridge infrastructure resulting from flooding and severe flooding in 2010 and 2015 at the expense of funding for co-financing projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 58 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 135]] I conclude that Amendment 132 was rejected. Amendment 133 increases by PLN 25 million property expenditure in part of the Culture and the protection of national heritage for the construction of the Ethnographic Park of the Żywiec Region in the municipality of Ślemień, at the expense of funding for co-financing projects carried out with the participation of European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 136]] I conclude that Amendment 133 was rejected. Amendment 134 increases by PLN 3.5 million property expenditure in the part of Transport for the reconstruction of the national road No. 8 Wrocław Ząbkowice Śląskie.Kłodzko State border, at the expense of funding for co-financing projects involving European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 57 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 137]] I conclude that Amendment 134 was rejected. Amendment 135 aims to create a new special-purpose reserve for the construction of a indoor swimming pool in Ząbkowice Śląskie, at the expense of PLN 3 million for co-financing projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 138]] I conclude that Amendment 135 was rejected. Amendment 136 creates a new special-purpose reserve for the construction of the new Ząbkowice Silesian Emergency Centre with PLN 2 million 800 000 for property expenditure, at the expense of reducing the reserve for co-financing projects implemented with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 139]] I conclude that Amendment 136 was rejected. Amendment 137 creates a new special reserve for the Ząbkowice Śląskie castle with PLN 1 million at the expense of reducing the reserve for co-financing projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 140]] I conclude that Amendment 137 was rejected. Amendment 138, at the expense of expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt, increases expenditure in part by PLN 10 million in transport to increase the capacity of the railway line No 140 on the Leszczyna route Katowice Ligota. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 141]] I conclude that Amendment 138 was rejected. Amendment 139 increases VAT revenue by PLN 500 million for the purpose of increasing the special reserve for medicines for people aged 75 years and over. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 142]] I conclude that Amendment 139 was rejected. Amendment 140 increases tax revenue by PLN 100 million to increase expenditure in the part of the transport for the construction of the southern ring road of Opole. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 55 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 143]] I conclude that Amendment 140 was rejected. Amendment 141 increases tax revenue by PLN 100 million, intended to increase expenditure in part of the Transport for the modernisation of the railway line E30 Opole Kędzierzyn-Koźle, for the construction of a tunnel in Zdzieszowice, construction of a viaduct in Gogolin, construction of a railway junction Opole Main. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 144]] I conclude that Amendment 141 was rejected. Amendment 142 increases tax revenue by PLN 30 million, intended to increase expenditure in the part of Transport for the construction of a bridge on the street. Niemodlinska in Opole. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 22 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 145]] I conclude that Amendment 142 was rejected. Amendment 143 increases tax revenue by PLN 3 million, intended to increase expenditure in part of Transport for the construction of a roundabout on the street. Prószkowska in Opole. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 56 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 146]] I conclude that Amendment 143 was rejected. Amendment 144 increases tax revenue by PLN 1 million, intended to increase expenditure in the part of Transport on the update of the design documentation of the Niemodlin bypasses, Kędzierzyna-Koźl, Myśliny. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 147]] I conclude that Amendment 144 was rejected. Amendment 145 increases tax revenue by PLN 6 million, intended to increase expenditure in the part of the Culture and the protection of national heritage for the equipment of the Polish Song Museum in Opole. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 148]] I conclude that Amendment 145 was rejected. Amendment 146 increases VAT revenue by PLN 308 million for the creation of a new special reserve for the construction of the Gostynin ring road on the national road no. [[Voices from the room: Gostynia, Gostynia.]] Gostynin... [[Voice from the room: Gostynia.]] Excuse me. Gostynia, here's a mistake. ...The construction of the bypass of the Gostyn during the national road no. 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 149]] I conclude that Amendment 146 was rejected. Amendment 147 is withdrawn. The vote on this amendment only in the event that another Senator upholds it. The amendment is not sustained. We move on to the vote on Amendment 148 which, at the expense of the expenditure on the service of the Treasury debt, increases expenditure in part of the Transport for the reconstruction of the bridge in Tczew by PLN 110 million. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 150]] I conclude that Amendment 148 was rejected. Amendment 149 increases expenditure in part by PLN 100 million for the construction of the Gdansk Metropolitan Circuit and expressway No 6 on the Tri-City Słupsk section, at the expense of the provision for co-financing of projects carried out with the participation of European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 151]] I conclude that Amendment 149 was rejected. Amendment 150 creates a new special reserve for the construction of a bridge drawn to Sobieszewska Gdansk Island with the amount of property expenditure PLN 84 million, at the expense of the reserve for co-financing projects carried out with European funds. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 25 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 152]] I conclude that Amendment 150 was rejected. Amendment 151 increases current expenditure, including salaries, of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the State Treasury by PLN 500 000, at the expense of reducing the amount of expenditure of the State Treasury by that amount. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 58 senators voted in favour, 21 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 153]] I conclude that Amendment 151 has been accepted. Amendment 152 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 255 million and allocates it to the modernisation of the port infrastructure in Elbląg. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 25 senators voted in favour, 57 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 154]] I conclude that Amendment 152 was rejected. Amendment 153 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 6 million 400 thousand and allocates it to rebuild the national road 51 in the Good City. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 155]] I conclude that Amendment 153 was rejected. Amendment 154 increases the revenue of the state budget by PLN 3 million 850 thousand and allocates it to the construction of a pavement in the village of Łąki Bratińskie to the village of Bratian... [[He's read...]] ...on the national road number 15. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 24 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 156]] I conclude that Amendment 154 was rejected. Amendment 155, at the expense of the Treasury's debt service, adds a new special reserve for reconstruction after the fire of the church of St. Anthony in Braniewo with the amount of grants and grants of PLN 1 million 500 thousand. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 51 against, 7 abstained. [[Voting No 157]] I conclude that Amendment 155 was rejected. Amendment 156 increases property expenditure by PLN 1 million for the construction of mechanical road barriers at the border crossing point in Bezledy, at the expense of handling the Treasury debt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 158]] I conclude that Amendment 156 was rejected. Amendment 157 extends the reserve to remuneration allowances for persons employed directly in order to implement the Act by the end of 2016. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 159]] I conclude that Amendment 157 was rejected. Amendment 158 increases by PLN 1 million 694 thousand by the Supreme Court, at the expense of increasing the payment to the Agricultural Treasury. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 23 senators voted in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 160]] I conclude that Amendment 158 was rejected. [[Voice from the room: Now the whole thing.]] [[Voice from the room: The whole.]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Golba hasn't voted yet? [[Voice from the room: He's out.]] He's out. Please state the results of the vote. 57 senators voted in favour, 24 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 161]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the adoption of the Finance Act for 2016. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u37	Quiet, please. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the law on the re-use of public sector information. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 78 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting, the committees gave an opinion on all the amendments tabled. One has been ruled out because the record has changed. The committees recommend that the High House adopt 9 amendments, 9 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u39	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Amendments 1 and 2 shall be of an order nature. They shall aim to take account of the existing content contained in Article. 2 (2) 4 in a separate editorial unit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 162]] Amendment 3 removes unnecessary words. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 75 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 163]] Amendment 4 aims to clarify the provision which indicates that the conditions for re-use of public sector information or the level of charges for re-use of that information constitute an offer collecting those conditions or information. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 164]] Amendment 5 clearly indicates the entities to which the National Archive Resources and Archives Act imposes certain obligations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 165]] Adoption of Amendment 6 excludes voting on Amendment 7. Amendment 6 aims at adapting and clarifying the wording of the criminal provision to the amended wording of the Article. The 110th Law of the Water Law to which that provision referred. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 166]] As Amendment 6 has been adopted, we are not voting on Amendment 7. Amendment 8 amends the provisions of Article. 110 of the Act "Water Law" e.g. by harmonising the rules for making certain information available to the entities indicated in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 167]] Amendment 9 tidys up the catalogue of entities required to transmit to the Central Public Information Repository of the information resource held. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 168]] Amendment 10 aims to clarify the content of the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Civil Records Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 169]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 170]] The bill's been passed. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the re-use of public sector information. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers. The National Defence Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 77 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 54 for, 24 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 171]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Military Service of Professional Soldiers. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Public Use and Volunteering. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 83 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janina Sagatowska, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Joint committees of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles Abroad On yesterday's occasion, they responded to the proposals put forward during the debate in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the statement and asked for them to be adopted by the Senate together with a uniform draft law amending the Act on Public Use and Volunteering and with a draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm, contained in print No 83 S. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u41	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak on this matter further than the report? [[No, thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, we will vote on the amendments tabled, and after these votes we will proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law "Print No 83 S" in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 extends the catalogue of public tasks to activities for veterans and veterans injured within the meaning of the Act on Veterans of Action outside the State. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But silence, please. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 172]] Amendment 2 complements the reference to the Public Finance Act in order to clearly indicate the possibility of granting targeted grants for the financing or financing of investment costs for tasks commissioned by the Senate to implement non-governmental organisations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 173]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorise Senator Janina Sagatowska to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 174]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on Public Benefit and Volunteering and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Janina Sagatowska to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print no. 47 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Robert Mątkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 Senators voted 69 and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 175]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and utilities of general interest and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 11th Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 9 and 10 March this year. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators and gentlemen of the Senators, Three senators of the United States of America prepared and sent a letter to the Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and three senators of the Republic of Poland sent today a letter to US senators John McCain, Benjamin Cardin and Richard Durbin. Here's what it says. Dear Senators of the United States of America! The history of friendship between our nations, Polish and American, tells us with extraordinary care to refer to your letter expressing concerns about the fate of democracy in Poland. We very much welcomed your declaration: "We are friends of Poland and we have close ties with the American community of Polish origin. In the following part of the letter, your concern is raised that the Polish government's actions threaten the independence of the media and the Constitutional Tribunal and that Poland's image as a model of democratic change for all countries of our region is corrupted. Political changes that are currently taking place in Poland have a strong mandate of Polish voters not only in Poland, but also What should we pay attention to? In the United States. The majority of Poles living in the USA, who still have Polish citizenship, voted for the ruling party, Law and Justice. We have numerous evidence that the vast majority of Polonia supports the political turn in Poland. Such sentiments of Polish voters result from realizing that 8 years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have driven our country into doubling public debt, numerous corruption scandals and pushed Poland into the role of a sub-supplier country for the strong economies of leading European countries. Deeper unemployment has led to mass economic emigration of young educated Poles and a deepening of demographic collapse. The current actions of the Law and Justice Government in many areas of public life, in the media, in the official service or in public undertakings are intended to remedy the situation. We assure the senators that the government and the parliamentary majority are making changes in a determined way, but at the same time attach great importance to respect for democracy, human rights and respect for law. This is demonstrated by the invitation of the Venice Commission to deliver an opinion on the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland, whose functioning was violated in 2015 by the previous majority of the Parliament, was opposed to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As Senators of the Republic of Poland, we fully support the response given to the senators by the Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło, in which a particular emphasis is required by the sentence "We want our sovereign decisions to be respected." We believe that the senators' concern for our country led them to write a letter, so we believe that a visit to Poland, if you had found time for it, and a direct study of our internal situation, would resolve any concerns and concerns. We invite you to visit Poland, which values freedom and the ideals of solidarity so highly. With respect, Senators Rafał Silesian, Andrzej Kaminski and Antoni Szymański signed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u43	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice, and it is about the supervision of criminal proceedings concerning an act which may have been committed in the defence necessary. I ask the Minister of Justice, soon also the Attorney General, to read the television coverage on TVP Info on 17 February this year. At 9:15 p.m., concerning the case of a man who defended himself against four attackers, one of whom was stabbed to death. The prosecutor who spoke in this report made a controversial argument about the lack of defence necessary, because the man who was attacked did not flee, and the law does not require the victim to flee from the attacker. This whole thing is very controversial. Perhaps we are dealing with injustice and harm to the person who defended her life in the face of assault. This man, the father of four children, has been temporarily arrested for months. Therefore, I ask the Minister to take note of the case and, as the Attorney General, correct any errors in the prosecution's supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-02-19-senat-11-3.u45	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the eleventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 11th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 12 minutes 53]]
