ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u1	I open the 25th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Mr. Secretary, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, two senators of the previous term died in August. On 21 August 2016, Andrzej Kralczyński, Senator I and 2nd term of office, died, member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad. On 25 August 2016, Anna Kurska, Senator V and VI of the term of office, Member of the Committee on Immigration and Poles Abroad, and of the Committee on Laws and Laws died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the dead senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I inform you that the Sejm at its 24th meeting on 5 September 2016 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to: the Act amending the Law on Family Support and Replacement Care, the Law on Social Assistance and the Act amending the Local Government Act and certain other laws; the Law on Special Rules for the settlement of tax on goods and services and on the reimbursement of public funds for the implementation of projects financed with the participation of funds from the budget of the European Union or from the Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement by local authorities; the Act amending the Act on Individual Income Tax and the Act on Corporate Income Tax. In addition, at the same meeting on 5 September 2016, the Sejm rejected the only amendment tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 21st meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-second, twenty-third and twenty-fourth Senate meetings, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider the first item of the draft agenda, although the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland was submitted at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I can't see, I can't hear. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of an opinion prepared by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, the point is: the appeal of a member of the Monetary Policy Council has been removed from the agenda and will be considered following the preparation of an opinion on the matter. Mr and Mrs Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the law on trust services and electronic identification and that it be considered as a point on the second agenda. If I do not hear a voice of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u2	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I object to the deletion of point two, which is the cancellation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u3	But that's not gonna happen. This point has been deleted and... Well, unless the marshal wants to ask you to add this point. If the marshal wants to bring it in, in a minute... [[No, no, I can...]] He's been deleted. If the marshal wants to add this point, you can report... Please report it later, okay? According to the rules... [[But I want to justify it.]] But it's not right now, Mr. Marshal. I asked the question of who did not agree to add item two to the agenda. And if you have... I take it you disagree, sir? [[I agree.]] You agree. In a moment, the question will be whether anyone else would like to take the floor to complete the agenda. Then there'll be room... I'll ask the question again. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the law on trust services and electronic identification and consider it as second point. If I do not hear any objection, I will find that the High House has accepted this proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of you, ladies and gentlemen, senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The deletion of a point on the cancellation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council, as far as I am aware, is related to the fact that the committee has not considered this point. The Commission has not considered this point because a member of the Monetary Policy Council has sent information that he cannot appear is ill. Well, if the committee has accepted such a principle that it is necessary to appear in a situation of resignation, as I understand it... This is a bad precedent. There is no obligation to appear when a written resignation has been made. Therefore, I believe that the deletion of this point is unlawful in this case. And...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u5	Good. I, Mr Marshal, have decided to delete, because I have been informed by the President, he has informed me of the whole situation, about the request of Mr Marek Chrzanowski, a member of the Monetary Policy Council, to justify absence for personal reasons, important reasons. Mr President took this into account, and so did I. I think it's natural, but I understand that the marshal has an opinion. The chairman of the committee would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, an excuse for absence has been received by the committee, but Mr. Marek Chrzanowski's request to set a different date for the meeting with the committee has also been received. We don't think it's necessary to rush and not listen to Mr. Chrzanowski if he wants to meet with the committee. We will set a different date, convenient for Mr. Chrzanowski and for the committee. In addition, I would like to draw your marshal's attention to the fact that Art. 96 Rules of Procedure of the Senate oblige us Before both the appointment and the appeal of a member of the Monetary Policy Council to the hearing of a candidate or a member of the Board being called back. The committee must therefore meet Mr Chrzanowski before drawing up an opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u7	Thank you very much. In that case, I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u8	I withdraw this motion, Mr. Marshal. [[You're pulling out, aren't you? Good. Thank you very much.]] It was rather my appeal to you to make these kinds of procedures, which, I say, drag things out... so that they don't create...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u9	Yes, but I'm not creating anything new, Mr. Marshal. I believe that committees, in accordance with this article, should look at the reasons for the resignation of a member of the Monetary Policy Council. We would have acted differently, first of all, against the rules, and secondly, with common sense, because it has always been done by the committees and should be dealt with. Mr. Senator Rulewski volunteered. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I ask Mr Marshal and the High House to extend the agenda to include a point on the adoption, still at this Senate meeting, the appeal of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to the United Kingdom Parliament, namely the House of Commons and the House of Lords. As you know, we are witnessing the worse events taking place in the UK, in England, in particular in Harlow, where verbal and physical assault on Poles was committed only because of their use of Polish language, i.e. national assaults. This event deviates from European standards. Victims have been violated by the European Charter of Human Rights and the citizen, which has also been ratified by the United Kingdom. It is worth noting that events of similar nature of the Polish Embassy in London have so far registered 17. So we are dealing with a specific campaign, with a specific sequence of events that were preceded, as you know, by a referendum campaign, in which arguments aimed primarily at the freedom of movement and professional activity that existed in Union law were abused. The important thing is that in the UK, at the moment, there are between 800,000 and 1 million Poles in economic emigration, so to speak, although this is not the word that defines everything. The important thing is that in Britain's internal policy this kind of... I would add that Polish emigration is the largest percentage at the moment. In any event, its existence, the behaviour of people, the effects of their stay were indicated and used during the referendum campaign, which resulted in the United Kingdom having decided to withdraw from the European Union. That's what it looks like on one side. On the other hand, we know that Great Britain, especially the culture of England, has enjoyed great recognition in Poland for years. The universality of teaching English, almost mandatory teaching, Shakespeare festivals, and recently the expansion of English is probably third place British capital in Poland proves, and actually confirms the long-term good relations between Poland and Great Britain, especially...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u11	Mr. Senator, there's three minutes to file a formal motion. Please don't turn off my... [[It wasn't me, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm guessing... [[This is where you shut me down...]] No, I didn't turn it off, Senator. You have three minutes. [[Good.]] I see. I'm asking for a conclusion, and I'm about to refer to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u12	The conclusion is this, the last sentence of the justification. It's not enough just to talk, to visit. We need to set up a working group on immigration, together with parliamentarians... And once again, the point is to complete the order for such an appeal and accept it at this Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u13	Mr. Senator, I don't mind extending the agenda, but the secretariat hasn't received any material, no document, no initiative. It would be an extension of the agenda of the sitting about the subject, something that you are informing me about at the moment, but we do not know any details, there are no prints, there is no writing, and yet order should be preserved. I suggest you, if the club... it's a shame that these interclub agreements don't take place before the meeting, there wouldn't be any trouble. I myself sent a letter to the head of the House of Lords with an appeal and a request. This letter is available on the website, you can read it. The reaction was immediate. I don't mind if we make a resolution like this, but in the rule of law. I ask that you submit a request to extend it once you have completed all the documents, the signatures under resolution. Right now it's just a senator's statement, we don't know the content, we don't have the print, we don't have the writing, so please... It is possible to extend the agenda by such a point during the meeting, but it must be more carefully prepared. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for your actual help. It can be assumed that it is a good English custom that the Marshal of the Senate or Chamber of Commons has such a basket where such petitions are made. I'll take your hands off the basket so far.]] No, Mr. Senator, I don't accept this for a few reasons, just because it's unsigned, it's an anonymous letter. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, would anyone else like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the twenty-fifth meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on special arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The text of the Act is contained in print No 270 and the report of the Commission In print No 270 A. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 5 September adopted by the Sejm... [[Word agreements for work...]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh.]] ...laws with special arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the Republic of Poland. Yesterday was the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. It is a government project, presented to us at the committee meeting of Minister Bogucki. The legislator has tabled a number of amendments, but the committee considers that they do not improve the achievement of the objective of the law, if any. The President put the draft law presented to the vote and the committee unanimously adopted it. I hereby present the bill, I bring it to the proceedings of the High House and ask the High Senate to adopt a law on specific arrangements for African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. What's the purpose of the bill? African swine fever occurred in Poland in 2014, there was one outbreak, and this year, on 23 June, there was another outbreak, and now we have 19 outbreaks of African swine fever in the Republic of Poland. This mainly applies to Podlaskie, Mazowieckie and Lublin voivodships. This disease becomes a problem for the state budget, because it is a disease that is combated by itself, but above all it is a problem for pig farmers and processors. It was therefore appropriate and appropriate to take these specific measures to prevent the further spread of that disease from preventively spreading. It is a disease of pigs and boars, it is not dangerous to people at all. As problems arise with the development of surplus pork meat, which currently appears... For the past two months, after the outbreaks of the disease have been eliminated, the so-called 19 sites are known. protection zones, threats. And here's the problem, like a healthy pig... how to make slaughter and development. Therefore, this law is intended to allow for the removal of these surpluses, the selection or registration of processing plants which will take place in production... This is mainly about canned meat, in which the meat will be grown or spasstered in 120°C. Because the virus, ladies and gentlemen, ends its life span at 80°C, and here we want to guarantee that it is a much higher temperature. But that surplus they're processing, we have to sell it, too. Therefore, the point is to pass the bill as if... Not to bypass, but... Well, you can also say: to circumvent the Public Procurement Act, so that individuals under the responsibility of the finance minister, the budgetary units, may purchase these final products processed from areas at risk of the possible spread of the disease. And that is the main objective of this law: to remove these surplus pork meat as soon as possible. After all, we all know that these places are at risk, protected... that these zones defined by district veterinarians and by the European Commission are valid for a certain period of time. ♪ If we clear ♪ Ooh, that's how I'm gonna spell it out. We're gonna clean up the production for a limited period of time, and we're gonna disinfect it, and after three months, the farmers are gonna be able to go back to pig production. And that's all it's all about. This is the first stage, because later, of course. We all know that very well. There's a second stage. It's about wild boars that are vectors or carriers... I think we need to learn to live with African swine fever. We have the neighbours we have, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, there he is. And wild boars do not know the boundaries, therefore they can always carry this disease, and it is necessary to prevent this disease from causing as little loss as possible in terms of pig producers, but also in terms of the budget. Like I said, it's an official disease. Therefore, we have already incurred some costs, because 1920 pigs were killed in these outbreaks, and the presence of the virus was found only in dozens of dead animals. And that's the effect... And it is said that in these three voivodships, these endangered zones, there are about 150 and 180 thousand pigs. It needs to be developed, as I said, cleaned up these places, disinfected so that farmers can return to pig farming, because we cannot afford to have this disease or decimate the herd, or to reduce the production of pig meat more and more. So much for the purpose of this bill and the bill itself, Mr. Marshal. As I said, the committee unanimously passed a bill to the Sejm... [[Voice from the Senate.]] ...Senate, I'm so sorry. Therefore, I, on behalf of this committee as Senator rapporteur, ask the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u15	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I only have one question for the senator because I understand... Could you tell the senator how this project was handled in the Sejm? Have all Members supported this project and raised any controversy in the Sejm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u17	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u18	This project, as I said at the meeting of our committee, did not cause controversy in the Parliamentary Committee and did not cause controversy in the Sejm, because there is a need for a moment so that we can find a solution that effectively prevents the spread of this disease. Besides, it becomes an economic disease. If we do not take the measures, it will cost us more and more, and this needs to be made clear.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u20	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I understand that the surgery looks like a meat plant that's gonna focus this food on canned food... [[Yes.]] ...and as a result of the adoption of this law, they will receive practically a guarantee that they will sell it. Right? [[Yes.]] Because if the rules on public procurement were to be applied, it would not be known if there would be a competitor who would outbid them. My question is, what are the predictions of how many of these cans are going to be, so to speak, in tons and who's going to buy it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u22	As I mentioned, Mr. Marshal, Senator, we assume... I don't know how many tons it is, I can't say... As for the data that have been presented in relation to pigs, this is the 150, 180 thousand pigs... possibly at risk of reappearing... Because right now they're all healthy. In these 19 cases the pigs have simply been disposed of, so I'll say, and today there is no virus, but there is always such a threat. So these are the plays, these are the plays... I can't say in tons. Here, mostly, it is what the Marshal, the senator, suggested in his question, to help the processing companies that take it, to get rid of the finished product, because there will indeed be an excess of these cans. Here to the budget units, so to speak, we are directing... Well, we've got the army, we've got... [[Who's gonna buy it?]] [[Senator Jan Rulewski: Senat will buy.)]] Excuse me? The senator says the senate will buy it. It's about solutions like this... the point is not to participate in the tender... You must also be aware that someone can be malicious and say, well, you, Mr. President, you, Mr. Director, produce meat from the danger zone, don't you? If it is subject to a normal procedure, problems may arise. And it could be that he saved the farmers from trouble, and he could fall... Therefore, this should be avoided.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u24	Mr. Senator, have you also considered safety issues related to the transport of these pigs? I understand that the entire population is being eliminated in the areas, as you said, of protection, precisely because of the possibility of this virus being transmitted. Now to these establishments these slaughtered pigs, supposedly tested I'm gonna ask you a question right now, too. They will travel all over Poland. And the question is, did you talk about it, or does the law provide for adequate safeguards? And then there's the second line. Since in my district one of the establishments has undertaken to dispose of those previously killed pigs already infected, we now have such signs of high concern, precisely because of transport costs, because the same plant has meat establishments and may be interested in the production of these cans. And one last question. Are these canned things gonna be labeled? Do we have the right to know that someone is trying to preserve us like this? She's supposed to be safe, we believe it, but we have a right to information. GMO, some say it's dangerous, others say it's safe, but it's marked... And will these cans be marked?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u25	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u26	Thank you very much. I believe that there is no need for labelling, because the final product in the form of canned or pâtés will be produced from healthy meat. All pigs must be tested. Can't a sick pig, sorry for the term "sick half-carcase" go into processing. Absolutely not. This is not the case so far, and especially in this case, when there are special solutions. No, it's full-value canned, that's how I'm gonna put it. Of course, that's what I asked. It's said that I'll refer to this movie about sugar. That there will be more meat in the meat than there was in the canned meat, because it will be full of meat. It's only meant to be processed for canned food. It's about temperature. High pasteurisation is 120°C, not 70°C or 60°C, because then the virus can survive. It won't survive here, that's what the vitality of this virus is. As far as transport is concerned, we want to protect ourselves. The point is not to wait for African swine fever to occur, because then we transport fallen art for disposal and there can actually be a threat. After all, we carry them across the country. No, it's in place. It would be best if these were bets in the area of these three voivodships. Right? So we wouldn't be moving. And there's quite a lot of bets there, but they have to have guaranteed help. Oh, that's the way I'm gonna put it. Aid in the sense: the sale of manufactured goods, such as canned goods.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u27	Thank you very much. [[But unfortunately, that's what happened.]] [[Yeah, yeah, they were. Of course you're right, Senator. That's why we want to eliminate this bill.]] Thank you very much. Senator Grubski. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Two questions. The first question concerns these 150 and 180 thousand pieces. It is assumed that this much can be considered infected. So that's possibly how much it could be subject to this infection. I mean, what is the number of producers, the units that produce pigs? So how many are there in these three voivodships? And the second question about wild boars. What about the boars? What's the idea now? Here's a specific idea, because we're going to turn it into canned food. And in the case of wild boars, shot off. And then what?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u29	Thank you very much. As for the first question, repeat it again, because you... [[How many farms, how many producers do these 150 and 180 thousand units share?]] In the first fire that occurred in the district of Hajnów, the breeder produces about 5 thousand units. I know that in High Mazowieck, where there was probably a second campfire, the breeder produces 9,000 pieces. This is my district, which is why I'm interested. There's a thousand, and 200, and there's a thousand. What I'm saying is, if we're moving from east to west, we're growing pig production, so to speak. These are farms with an increasing number of pigs produced. Therefore, this also becomes a threat, because it is this virus, this disease is spreading in this direction. In the area of Hajnów County there is one breeder with whom it occurred. There can be no more speeches, because he's the only one that makes pork meat. [[Thank you very much...]] As far as wild boars are concerned, to this day 114 cases of dead boars have been reported. I think Minister Bogucki will speak in more detail. There will be a second stage of work on this law and we will be wondering how to make wild boars not become the vector that makes this disease spread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions. First of all, you were talking about costs, but we don't know the numbers. If we could zoom in on the estimated cost of the entire operation... I don't know if it's a unit... Is this measured by another unit than e.g. One piece of pig? The second question is: are there methods to prevent such a disease, or is science simply helpless today in this matter? And the third question is, isn't there any concern that... at the moment the issue of fever and the processing of this meat into canned meat is being made public. Isn't there such a danger that these canned goods will simply be such an unwanted good and will not be consumed? Well, the fears of the people who would buy it will certainly be great in connection with such information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u32	As far as costs are concerned, Senator, they will be small. Healthy pigs will be purchased, processed in plants, and processing plants will sell the canned goods we are talking about. Here you will not interfere, we will only allow this law safe for the processing plant to sell. Because what you're suggesting in your second question might occur. It may be an unwanted good. We all know very well that this is healthy meat because the virus does not occur in healthy animals. As soon as there's a play, it says... Therefore, each piece is tested, of course not only for this virus, but also for other diseases. The veterinarian who takes care of the establishment is obliged to examine the meat which is intended for processing. Therefore, in conclusion, I believe that this is the cost of... The costs are just when there is a virus and should be disposed of these 1,300 pieces after, I don't know, 200.300 PLN, or maybe more. These are the costs of testing, slaughter and disposal. Well, then there's the cost. We need to make sure we don't bear those costs. As for the danger zone... How can this be eliminated? It is necessary to cleanse the area threatened with other pigs, from the remaining pig production, to disinfect, cleanse and return, this time safely, to undertake the breeding of new pigs.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u34	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we're meeting at an additional Senate meeting today. Actually, this bill is the only reason we met today, so I'd like to know if you've been discussing whether we're actually dealing with a serious ASF threat. Well, it only appears from this bill that it generally concerns the buying-in of overgrown pigs. In these zones it is probably difficult to sell, and this has been done. Questions could be multiplied here. How long is this supposed to last? We also do not know if there are bets that will take place at all, because certainly not all bets produce canned goods. If this is to be done at no cost, as you say, it follows that this law only introduces such a solution that the bet will be able to sell it without public procurement law. And nothing else. Therefore, my main concern is whether there will be bets at all that will take place. If we're facing a serious threat... At first, you said there was only one fire in June. We've been fighting ASF for over two and a half years now, if I remember correctly. If there was one bonfire in June, what happened that we were suddenly seeing each other today? You were talking about 19 fires and that they had already been extinguished. What suddenly happened that a special bill was needed? After all, such situations have happened so far. And this is a bill that's kind of partial, fragmentary. It does not apply to what we think is needed today to fight this disease. So I have a few questions. Is this such a serious threat that we had to meet at this extra session? Do these actions that we take guarantee that we will be able to deal with this disease? And isn't what's written here gonna... unfortunately, I'm afraid nothing's gonna change. And as you said, this zone already covers 3 voivodships, it has expanded. And there's also the question of how long you've been bringing this in. Did you discuss this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u35	I think in your question, Senator, there's almost an answer, what you suggested in that question, that we've been fighting for two years or two and a half. That's what I said, in 2014 we had only one bonfire, and it's lucky that the disease didn't spread. Man practically has no effect on the spread of this disease, because it's a virus. Therefore, if a boar carries it, then of course it would have to be considered... I'm sure Minister Bogucki will tell you what the other part of the bill is about, which is prepared and is now in the government, but I repeat once again, in this reply, that this law will actually make it possible to take the so-called picture very quickly. The surplus you were talking about, too. The idea is to eliminate the possible emergence of the virus again in the so-called. the surveillance zone. We have no other choice but to slaughter and not allow the virus to spread, because what else can be done. Each of us can ask ourselves what to do. We're trying to fight this disease. This disease, as I said, is beyond our eastern border, we will always be exposed. This disease is in Italy. Spain once fought this disease very hard. It's been wiped out. Then she showed up at our house for misfortune. We, too, must take appropriate action and take action. This bill, in my opinion, will make the African swine fever stop.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u37	Mr Senator, rapporteur! You mentioned that such events took place in Poland two and a half years ago. Then the PO-PSL coalition government simply immediately bought out sick or endangered pigs, added PLN 1.50 per kilogram, did not advertise all over the world, what it would now do with this meat, whether in canned or not, but above all, Mr President, Senator Rapporteur, announced and ♪ As it seemed ♪ It has maintained a strong veterinary regime over the last two and a half years. My question is, what was the cause of these fires, it exploded again, and it's expanding? Isn't that what Senator Augustine was talking about, and what happened at Inowroclaw, that this meat is being driven all over Poland? We know that this infection is unfortunately spreading. Finally, I have a question about whether a law was really necessary, not a swift bureaucratic, parliamentary act.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u38	This rapid action, Mr. Senator, was taken by veterinary surgeons, because the 19 outbreaks in which this disease broke out were eliminated. I wouldn't want to politicize this disease like you did, absolutely not. It concerns all our farmers, regardless of the political option, and we must take all kinds of measures to protect ourselves from the further spread of this disease. It was just one fire, fortunately. Today we have 19 of them, which means we can see with multiple force how this virus worked. So let's do everything we can to protect our country from this disease. Like I said, she's only dangerous to pigs. We, as those who eat, are not exposed, will not harm our health or be exposed, do not give God life.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u40	I have an accompanying question. Aren't you afraid, Mr. rapporteur, that not everyone will want to give up these pigs at the same price?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u41	Farmers have a problem, and it's a very big one. At the moment, they want to get rid of the surplus that is produced in their farms very quickly. I speak to these farmers because, as I say, I am a senator from these 4 districts, therefore I know this situation very well and I am not afraid of it at all. There is only one request: pass this bill... [[Let's settle this.]] Excuse me? [[Let's settle this.]] Let's settle this. [[Do not presume, and let us presume.]] To me, I'm sorry, it was said at meetings: adopt. And as senators, let's adopt, let's take action to get this bill into force so that we can have peace of mind with this disease immediately. It's not about anything else.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question like that. We're saying there was only one outbreak of this disease two and a half years ago, and now it's spread avalanchely. Are those actions that have been taken in the past to eradicate this disease and these outbreaks, according to the committee, correct, according to you? Wasn't there a mistake here? Was there any other action to be taken in the past? Is this situation that's happening today, as far as I can tell... What caused an avalanche increase in recent illness? The next question is about the canned market, because I think we're taking this a little bit too lightly. Didn't you discuss at the committee meeting the problem that now there will be canned products on the market whose origin... Of course I am aware that this is good meat, etc., I am convinced about this, but unfortunately the consumer can make choices and ask: does this canned food come from endangered areas? This could lead to the push of Polish canning producers from the market at all. There will be canned products from other countries where there is no such disease. This would be an absolute disaster for processors, producers of these products. And one last question. You gave examples of Spain and Italy. Did the Italians take similar actions? Were canned products sold on the local market and were there no negative effects on processors?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u44	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u45	Mr. Senator, I don't know what the Italians were doing. I know for a fact that they still have this disease, and they still have a problem with it. I know that Spain, after a long period of fighting this disease... There are no fires there today. Are the actions correct? I don't want to judge because it's not in my jurisdiction, but I'll give you an example. This disease occurred on 23 June in the district of Hajnów, and there was an outbreak of this disease. In the morning, the district veterinarian who supervises the establishment that I have, because I'm also involved in the production of pigs, carried out SPIWET. The result was positive, and at 19.00 he was informed that 5 dead animals had the presence of African swine fever virus. That's the disease. It's hard to compare... [[Among the pigs that were put at the buying-in point?]] No, no, God forbid. They're dead... [[Dead people?]] Yeah, dead people. The blood is tested first, and then the so-called blood is tested. genetic material, or kidneys. The blood was clean, and after the kidney test, there was a suspicion of a virus. This morning the veterinarian assessed this pigsty and the result was positive. [[So the disease can also occur at the buying-in point, right?]] No, because there's research. All pigs are tested at the buying point before they leave. [[What if he doesn't?]] What do you mean, no? Of course I do. Right now, in this zone, you can't take any other action, you need to deliver healthy... This is a danger zone, EU rules don't allow...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u46	Senator Augustine. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u47	In connection with your last words, I will ask whether veterinary services are indeed prepared and adequately equipped with financial resources to cope with this additional task. I witnessed a discussion at the county council meeting. They asked how often meat is controlled by meat establishments. A few samples a year. Why? Because there's no money. So how is it that financial resources are secured to this extent? Second thing. Has this meat been considered for animal feed, which would free us all, consumers, from fear? Here's another question. Is the list at least those producers If not products, at least the list of producers Will it be public?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u48	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u49	I'm not gonna try to answer your questions here, but I'm sure Minister Bogucki will want to answer them. It's a government bill, so it's here... [[There's a specialist here.]] Excuse me? There is a government representative here who will probably answer these questions. I really don't want to imply anything here because I don't know... [[It was at the committee meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u50	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyla. Questions, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Quiet, please.]] I wanted to speak as an epidemiologist, because here there are many kind of misconceptions about diseases. [[Listen, Mr. Augustine!]] Ladies and gentlemen, even though we have such advanced technology, it's before disease, especially viral... Well, these diseases exist both among humans and in animals. So I didn't see any servants neglecting anything here, for example. We get flu every once in a while, that's our nature. And here, too, I'd like to say Mr President has spoken of this many times. It's a viral disease that doesn't spread to humans. After all, if dead animals were transported, they would have to pass through pigs to infect other animals. [[But he doesn't listen...]] And what are the veterinary services doing? All these activities we are discussing are aimed at breaking the epidemiological chain, and this is not a coincidence at a time when the virus is relatively difficult to spread. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] The virus must also have the right temperature to spread. And that's where it's said... I do not understand, Senator, such a theory that meat in slaughterhouses is not available. I mean, there's a vet in the slaughterhouse... [[But I wasn't talking about the slaughterhouses.]] [[Well, that's what you said.]] At the slaughterhouse... [[I told you about the bets.]] Oh, yeah, in the bets... [[It's the same thing that's in the slaughterhouses.]] Meat producers pay veterinarians, that is their duty, they must be veterinary certificates when meat or meat products are placed on the market, they are... First of all, attention is paid to the hairy, but any other diseases, viral and bacterial diseases are also taken into account. So I think there's no danger here for people. And what the government is proposing to do is that we're gonna be at the right temperature with meat... [[Pasteurize. High pasteurisation.]] ...have preserved, this is something that will significantly secure this meat, because even if we ate this virus, then... man will not get sick. And remember this, because I see here as if there's a panic that, if we get into society, we're actually gonna have... we're gonna think that African swine fever is some kind of flu that threatens a man, and that's not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u52	Thank you very much. Senator Florek. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u53	I'm going back to the subject, whether or not this bill, which was so urgent, will do its job. And we're probably gonna get an answer today whether she's gonna do her job or not. What's the big deal? It follows from this law that we are not fighting against ASF, but mainly about buying surplus, which is on the market, buying surplus, which is to be without subsidies and which is to be at average prices in the region concerned. And that's all they're gonna focus on... Ladies and gentlemen, as far as these veterinary matters are concerned, I believe that all of this is assured. Meat establishments, these tests... That's how we know that meat isn't harmful. The question is, are there any bets that will... The point is to keep the price on the market without the need for subsidies, so that it doesn't fall. Are there bets that will take it? Where are they located? Are the bets that make cans... Will this meat be processed in these 3 voivodships, in these regions, or will it be transported all over Poland? It's not harmful, we don't eliminate the fire... We were talking about the Octopus or Inowroclaw. Now we're talking about meat itself. The question is whether this bill will do its job. Isn't it gonna be like a month from now that the government is gonna come with a new bill because it's gonna turn out that, unfortunately, but without subsidies, without support, this bill doesn't do anything? The question is whether there are such bets or whether they are prepared for this, in which area they are located. It's about the bets that will focus it efficiently at average prices in a given area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u54	I think the Minister will answer these questions. I'm just gonna say that there was no information at the committee's meeting about the bets that would deal with the possible slaughter and processing. There was no such question, no such conversation, no such debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u55	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Hello, Minister Bogucki and welcome. Your vote, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill was so precise and so professionally presented by your senator that I cannot add much in terms of the purpose of this submission. Maybe I'll answer some of the questions that you didn't answer the senator because they were really about what the ministry's domain was. I would like to say, by explaining in depth the purpose of this law, that this objective is primarily linked to the fight against the ASF. We cannot bring about a situation where farmers, pig producers in this area will seek illegal disposals of those pigs that are growing in them. If we do not create a support instrument for farmers, if we do not create an industrial outlet that will deal with this processing, illegal trade will begin, and this will increase the risk of spreading the disease, because single sick animals can be exported among healthy animals, meat from healthy animals can be exported infected meat, which is linked to the fact that there will also be untested animals in these transports. Poles during World War II, when for illegal trade in meat and animal breeding... Poles dealt with it. This situation is really serious. With such a big problem, with such a big threat in breeding anything in Poland after the war we probably haven't had anything to do with it and we have to realise it. This is a threat not to humans, but to the future of pig breeding in Poland, for the entire processing in this area. Losses can be multi-billion-dollar. As to the causes of the subsequent outbreaks, I can say one thing. The veterinary services carried out very thorough analyses and investigations in this area, but their capabilities ended at a time when farmers refused to provide information e.g. About where they got the pigs that got sick in their herd. Dealers, people selling these piglets also refused to provide such information. The veterinary services have therefore sent notifications to the relevant services. The proceedings are still ongoing. So at the moment, we don't have 100 percent of the information that was the primary source of the infection in the case of those dozens of outbreaks that are at the moment, but the analysis of the veterinary data shows that there may have been one, maybe two, but not more than two sources of infection. One of these sources was just the marketing of unmarked, unknown origin of piglets. The second source is the conversion of wild boar carcasses in one of the pig holdings and then contact other farms. And that was the case for small farms. So these are two potential sources. Nor do we rule out the fact that it was economic sabotage; whether intentional or negligent, it is already a matter for the proper service to determine. This knowledge is very important to us, because without it it it is difficult to fight the causes; the doctor will certainly confirm it. The hardest part is to fight the disease if you don't know the source of the infection. Of course, we are fighting its effects, the spread of which is being combated by veterinary services, and they are trying to reduce them, and this knowledge is needed to eliminate at least all kinds of threats. Indeed, there are many sources or possibilities of spreading this disease. The first bonfires were related to wild boar remains. The first campfire in Poland appeared in 2014 and found in the forest near the border. Then there were more fires among the wild boars, and there was not one, and the three outbreaks of Mr. Senator didn't exactly give it to you precisely. In small farms located in the area where they were wild. So here, the knowledge is almost complete. We don't know where that first boar came from, actually, it wasn't the whole boar, it was the remains of the dead boar. And as for the further links of the chain, it looked like another wild boar was infected, and then farmers, while in the woods, moved the disease to small farms. And that was the first wave. I've already told you about the second wave. We do not yet have full knowledge of the origin of the disease on the first large farm, nor do we have knowledge for those smaller farms where the disease also occurred, where the original source was. We know indirectly, we do not know the original source, because the people involved refused to provide this information to the veterinary services. And as far as this bill is concerned, like I said, it's supposed to protect her from trying to sell illegally. Because if a farmer is forced by restrictions that result from a transport ban... these animals must not be transported outside the region, they must not be killed and distributed in the form of unprocessed meat at high temperature in trade. That is to transport slowly, but under special conditions; live animals can be transported but only for slaughter and not for further breeding. And for slaughter, they can be transported under special conditions, with special regimes in place. Similarly, meat As long as it is not processed at high temperature, it can be transported under special regimes. These regimes result from the second cordon of safeguards imposed on Poland by the European Commission. The first cordon is the restriction of the type that each animal needs to be tested, it must have a laboratory blood test as mentioned here to rule out the presence of the virus in each animal in the herd. I think the doctor described it best as a professional. Well, the virus is just like the flu that we're not sick yet, and there's a small, small, residual amount of the virus that we have because we caught it from someone. And vice versa. We're not sick anymore, and we can still be carriers. In the case of ASF it also happens because only 80% wild boars fall, and part of it is still a host and is alive. It looks more dramatic among pigs, because most of the time the whole herd falls if one of them gets infected. Nor is it certain that the virus is not mutating and that the animals are not immune. Well, it's a virus. Let us realize that this is not a disease in the form of one that allows us to talk about a spoiling meat. It is a virus that can be present in an animal that is completely harmless to humans. So this first cordon is just the testing and disposal of every sick herd, herd, not animal. If one animal is found to be ill in a herd, all animals are slaughtered and disposed of. And that's what's happened so far. On the other hand, the second cordon of security, which appeared for the first time... Now there are other methods of action than they were two years ago. Two years ago the security was a ban on exports outside Poland, only in the country such marked meat could be transported. Therefore, the government at that time decided to pay up to a kilogram for farmers to be able to sell this meat; it could not be exported outside the border and therefore the price in the internal market fell immediately. So farmers received a surcharge of PLN 1,50 per kilogram, sold it in the internal market and the animals were removed from the market. In view of the number of outbreaks spread in this area, the European Commission has now imposed higher requirements: for meat to be exported and sold, it must be processed at high temperature. The payment has also been considered by us and it continues as a second element, which does not require statutory changes, but a regulation of the Council of Ministers. However, we considered that the addition and release of this into the free market could cause more risks in the form of virus movements outside the zone to other pig flocks. Let's say that someone in a small plant is processing the meat, will not make sure that this 80°C is achieved, the product is transported to Wielkopolska, the farmer buys it, eats it, throws it away and so reaches the pig herd and they start to get sick. That's why we decided on a solution where it will be worked at a high temperature, but not 80°C, because they will be enough, only 120°C, for the form of canned. Conservatives also offer a different guarantee, not only that the right temperature will be reached, but also that we can hold this after production for a long time, it is a product of prolonged durability, say, a few years. Therefore, we rid ourselves of the risk of secondary infection and create a second cordon of protection for this disease. That's not 100 anymore, but 200%. As a math teacher, I shouldn't be talking about 200% or a million percent, because 100%. That's 100%. In any case, this means full protection against the exit of this disease from the region through a product made of meat from that area. The third possibility we also have in mind if it is necessary to launch it is to slaughter and to dispose of it. This was Spain's way of killing 2 million pigs because they had not yet known the thermal treatment methods, i.e. they did not know that they were sufficient. They did it some years ago when that disease just appeared in Spain. Notabene was then slaughtered and buried on site, on farms, without looking for burial sites, without looking for rendering facilities. In turn, other countries... EU rules have now adopted the form of security. I would like to say that every piece of meat that will be processed at temperatures above 80°C gets an EU marking and can reach the entire EU market, not only the Polish market. This was confirmed by Commissioner Anprintajtis, responsible for health security when he was in Krynica, in an interview given to Polish media; he also confirmed this to us as representatives of the government a few days earlier during discussions on this subject. So there is full acceptance of the European Commission towards this law and this form of conduct. The bets that will accept this meat are waiting for the President's signature and the bill to enter into force. It'll be at least a few bets, because we wouldn't want it to be in one. All these establishments are located either inside or close to the affected area, so that transport is as short as possible. And as I said, transport will take place under special conditions, with full security, because this is what the law and Polish and EU require. So this is simply a method that has been developed in the European Commission and which has also been implemented in Polish law. It is fully safe and one we want to benefit from. Like I said, we're prepared to implement this bill. In the meantime, I've counted it, in the case of 100,000 pieces, because according to our estimates we have so much to take for the moment, that would be 7,000 t and that amount in the form of canned meat, already ready-made meat, would have to be bought. One more thing has to be said in this House is that there are a lot of people from my generation and close to age, and they'll know what I'm talking about. We used to buy that kind of canned stuff in Peweks, or we could buy it in America for dollars. It was actually 100% then. meat in meat, there were no additives in the form of non-animal protein of origin, there was no so-called. momu, or meat mechanically separated from the bones. This is treated as meat of a lower quality, although, of course, permitted under Union law to be used in products of animal origin, to be combined with products of animal origin. In the opinion of industry it will be the best canned, not available for years in trade and in Poland. Companies will be able to sell it in a market manner, and this law is designed to ensure that the company That's what we're talking about. If there were any concern that this psychosis would somehow reveal itself, it would be economically safe. So the farmer gets the price he sells for, and he doesn't have to look for illegal sources of disposal, he gets the fair price... After all, this farmer, who has a healthy herd, didn't do anything wrong, maybe his neighbor, who bought the piglets, but he already had his herd slaughtered, and his neighbor didn't do anything. The plant has full economic security if it enters this production, under full veterinary control, it will not lose any powers. This is done on a separate line, just in case, full EU procedures are applied here. And it's also safe for you, economically. And why do we estimate costs at zero? Since the plants have decided that they will deliver this directly to the final customer via their distribution networks, excluding wholesale and retail margins. Therefore, for the plant this will come in price terms, as for other products, much worse quality, available on the market, the product will be priced close to other products, much worse quality, for the end user, and the distribution costs will be taken by industry. In order to combat ASF, we need the cooperation of four factors in the country: state structures, together with veterinary services and all services subordinate to the State; farmers who must be aware that if they do not secure their farms, they risk not only their breeding but also their neighbour's breeding; industry, which must also realise that the end of pig farming in Poland is the end of the existence of this industry and the Polish pork industry will disappear from the tables; and the widely understood hunting environment, which must undertake to reduce the population of feral pigs to a minimum in endangered areas, because without it this disease will continue to exist among feral pigs and will be a potential risk of moving it to pig flocks. Unfortunately, threats are also from abroad, as mentioned by the senator. Risks are of different kinds, and it is also not excluded to use this disease as a biological weapon or to use biological sabotage, because this disease turns out to be so economically dangerous for this production sector that it can unfortunately be used in this way. After the first case in 2008, when the disease crossed the Caucasus It was the first case detected in Europe. In a few years, she arrived in Poland. We're one of those countries. Together with Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, they try to secure their own borders, their own country against this disease, but at the same time protect the European Union, the whole European Union from it. That is why we have the support of the European Commission. We're working on... Today, the workers of my departments went to Brussels to talk about support for farmers when it comes to stopping production, because we want farmers in these areas to be compensated for stopping breeding pigs for a few years so as not to increase the risk. At the same time, we are introducing an improved bioinsurance programme in which we want to secure those large farms that still want to remain in this area so that they are surrounded by such cordon... so that they are safe as farms in every part of Poland and Europe. And that's the complex of actions we're taking. The next bill goes to the next session of the Sejm, and on Monday it was adopted by the government. There is a solution to the issue of the obligation to shoot wild boars, increase the firing of wild boars, as well as the issue of securing farms, these good, healthy farms, those that are already often fenced, not even single, but double fences, those in which they want to grow... despite the risks, which, however, is much greater since the ASF appeared in Poland. There's already, I think, full cooperation between the government, the farmers. In terms of a large proportion of farmers, And industry. Cooperation with the hunting community is also beginning to move in the right direction. So there's a chance that I do not know if we will fight this disease faster than Spain, where it lasted 35 years, we will reduce the effects of this disease and we will fight the spread of this disease effectively. But you have to be aware that there may be a lot of sources of infection, and this disease unfortunately does not have a cure for the present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u57	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Rulewski will be the first to speak. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u58	Minister, you have not convinced me that the solutions that have been applied in the past I mean, that's what I'm talking about. The purchase was preferred for 1 PLN 50 gr, which you spoke about, and which you or the government suspend as an alternative No use of... We could even apply for European aid here. But shouldn't that order be introduced? And second question, maybe a little bit softer. In your opinion, has veterinary surveillance worked, but is it simply not possible to prevent this at an earlier stage and at a time when such a phenomenon occurred? And finally, the third question. Isn't the marketing campaign around this issue sick, when it comes to the fact that this meat, however, is selected for canned meat... so it's like you're stigmatizing this meat... Or shouldn't you just shut it down in the internal market without letting it out? After all, the Polish pig is a strategic commodity for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u59	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u60	As far as the questions are concerned, I'm going to start by answering the last one, closing this sale. In the first three cases, we had a very limited area. In this area pigs were slaughtered not only in farmers with a disease but also within a radius of 3 km. Moreover, as I said, the restrictions imposed by the European Commission were much smaller, it was possible to sell the meat without heat treatment, so the aid was intended to compensate for the fall in prices for this area under normal economic conditions. In this case, we have no choice but to process at high temperature, and only canned products give a 100 percent guarantee that the middle of each of these meat has reached a temperature of not 180°C and 120°C. In the case of other treatments are possible... Because there are 3 types of processing, and there is an indication of the time and temperature at which meat is to be present, but there is no 100 percent guarantee that each part of this meat has actually reached such a temperature. So there is a greater danger that this temperature will not be reached. And, most importantly, the storage period can be much shorter. As regards veterinary surveillance, there are very different assessments of this surveillance. Like wherever people work, mistakes happen, there are workers who don't do their jobs. We respond decisively to such signals. There is a reason why the Government of Law and Justice is working to combine veterinary inspections with other inspections. Given that the current system creates gaps and overlaps in inspections, in our view this was not properly regulated by law. Also, the continued underfunding of these services caused that good professionals often left and took up individual veterinary activities. So this supervision certainly needs to be strengthened, but in what happened, it is difficult to find the fault of supervision. The European Commission has not indicated that this supervision is guilty. The European Commission praises Poland for removing every fire so quickly, because in other countries it was really much slower and more perturbing. As far as the first question is concerned, I have already partially answered them, but once again I will repeat that in our view this would cause a greater risk of epizootic disease, because more small plants would be involved in this processing. They would look for different methods and we might not be able to fully control it. But there's another reason, very prosaic and unambiguous. We invited organizations that organize meat processing plants from Poland to talk to us. Three actions were proposed during discussions with these establishments. Because three actions are possible. We followed the proposal for this action that the senator was talking about: we're gonna add to the kilo, and if not, we're gonna kill the pigs and we're gonna put them out of business. It was the industry that proposed such solutions, not other solutions. Only one plant, and a relatively small one, or one that could not cope with that amount of meat, was opting for subsidies and conversion not into canned products, but for all other forms for which the treatment is more than 80oC. Just one. Other establishments, especially the larger ones, did not want to do so, realizing the risk of such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u62	Minister, I've heard voices like this that there's nothing going on. Tell me, are you considering handing this meat over to canned animals, dogs and cats? There's a huge market of this kind. Is fresh infected meat dangerous to other animals, pets, dogs and cats? Because I understand it's not dangerous for people. I also have a question: are veterinary and health issues regulated sufficiently from the legislative side? Since the situation is extraordinary, I think it would be possible to go back to the disposal of sick animals by burying these animals near the place of the disease at depth, suppose, 4 m. [[At a depth of 4 meters?]] [[Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: 3 m.]] [[3.5 m.]] Okay, well... we're out of it. Everything is now recycled in special facilities. We're driving... I heard the Kujawsko-Pomeranian rendering plant was being transported to secure slaughtered art, only protected with tarpaulin. Are such situations really happening? Is this enough according to the current regulations? And are the current rules enough to eliminate the threat?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u63	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u64	As far as the first question is concerned, regarding the use of canned meat for dogs and cats, it is, of course, possible. If the cans were processed at temperatures above 80oC, it wouldn't be a problem. It's just that it's probably hard to sell cans like that, you'd have to pay for them. When it comes to raw meat for animals, absolutely not, because... a man is still able to... We're counting on a human being knowing that meat comes from an animal with possible traces of the virus... I don't think a farmer should throw away the garbage anymore and feed them pigs. But what's he gonna do with a piece of meat like that? Isn't he gonna run to the open pigsty? We can't control that anymore. However, it is also a duty to protect the farm against access to pets. [[I mean, Minister, do we have pets? Is there any danger of feeding this type of meat to pets?]] Episodeless, no. If an animal eats meat from a sick animal, it won't. Only that if such an animal carries a piece of said meat into a pigsty or after contact with such meat will go into a pigsty, it can directly infect... I'll admit I'm not a veterinarian, I'm a farmer by birth. I'm learning all this quickly, I wasn't responsible in the ministry for the field that we're talking about. Nevertheless, the analysis that we have at the moment shows that the practice of combating this disease is very complex. It is a very difficult disease to fight, due to the multitude of routes of its spread and the possibility of moving from herd to herd. So the answers at this stage of scientific and experimental knowledge... But the Polish experience in this area is probably beginning to be the most far-reaching in terms of combating this disease. As far as the veterinary and sanitary situation is concerned, the services have been strengthened. Doctors from other parts of Poland were assigned to the respective voivodships. Control by the police and road services in the field of animal transport is underway. The veterinarians shall check the holdings, verify that they do not have unregistered flocks of animals. In the new rules, those I have already mentioned, adopted by the government, will be obliged to report under the responsibility of a mandate... After another case of irregularities on the holding, it will be possible to slaughter and dispose of without compensation. Where the situation on a holding is not threatened by ASF disease, but because animals cannot be removed from the holding, it will endanger welfare and the herd, it will be possible to slaughter part of the stock for compensation, and this is not in the current law. So all the problems that have actually occurred and that have not been regulated are really solved. As far as the possibility of burying is concerned, the obligation to run combs has been transferred to local authorities several dozen years ago, or maybe even twenty years ago. And the local authorities have eliminated these combs, and no one has enforced the obligation to create such combs. In Poland we do not simply have designated burial sites on which to legally bury fallen animals. The problem of fallen animals was believed to be the issue of rendering plants, but the network of these rendering plants was privatized, so there are no establishments which the State could directly commit to a specific action. It is not possible for these establishments to be forced by State institutions to act, especially if this would require investment or the performance of any task for the State. These must be bets that are prepared to convert a certain number of fallen animals. And that's the only reason this one case of transportation happened. In these zones or nearby there is no establishment that is able to receive and dispose of a large number of animals at one time, but this transport, I assure you, was under full control. The driver did not even have the right to leave the vehicle during transport. There was also complete disinfection before and after the transport. And it wasn't just some tarp, it was full security. We have also taken care of the convoying of this transport, so we have really fully secured it so that there is no threat to breeding. The doctor also said that, in order for the infection to occur, this transport would have to pass through the pigsty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u65	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll refer to the words of the marshal. I listen to this discussion as a doctor and, ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been one misunderstanding. He lives around us... We live in a world of microorganisms: we have them on our hands, in our mouths, on a spoon, on a fork, in the digestive tract. And luckily, because they're needed. Some bacteria and viruses are harmful to humans, but 99% They're harmless viruses. After all, the whole point of the problem is not that any farmer with whom the fire broke was sick. No one got sick because it's a virus that's harmless to humans, like the other viruses that we have in our mouths. It is harmless to humans, so directing this meat into the animal food chain is exactly what it is forbidden to do. We need to break this food chain in animals, not humans. All my teenage medical knowledge says that either something is harmful to us or not, so let's not scare people that in any way it will be harmful. If that were the case, those farmers who had those fires would be the first to get sick. And let us not direct our discussion to allocate this meat to animals, because that is exactly what we should prevent. I'm sorry to put you up to this, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u66	Mr. Marshal, I don't want to start a long discussion, but you remember the case of avian flu and the mutation of this virus. Of course, we're not scaring anybody. There is no such situation so far, but it seems to me that we need to try to resolve this issue on the spot. I'm not gonna ask you about these combs anymore, but I think the Ministry should take care of that so that these animals don't get carried away. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Jacek Bogucki: In the bill is restored...]] Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u67	I don't want to start this discussion either, because other doctors are about to get involved. Let me just remind you that the mutation of the virus that occurred in Asia and is called avian flu, started just because... it was initially a virus that caused small symptoms in humans, only mutated towards a more malignant one. Here we're dealing with a typical animal virus that doesn't cause any symptoms in humans. There are millions of these types of viruses, and everyone can mutate the same way, so I don't see any danger here. And none of the experts I've been talking to are... But why don't we get this conversation on track? Senator Grubski will ask you another question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Minister pointed out the difference between the diseases of the wild boar who is surviving in some percentage, and in the case of a pig who does not survive this infection. How long does the disease last from infection to death? And then there's the next question. At what stage It's secondary contagious? After the infection, when he's a carrier who's active when it comes to infecting...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u69	If I remember correctly As I said, it's not exactly my part in ASF, it's been seven to a dozen days since the infection, and then the animal just dies. First, symptoms are comparable to symptoms of other diseases, so doctors often treated animals for other diseases. At the initial stage of this disease, the doctor tried to treat animals for another disease, did not diagnose ASF, and only a few days later it turned out that it was ASF. As for hosts, I can't answer that question right now, because, as I said, I didn't prepare so thoroughly from this matter, but of course we will answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisławek, I ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I must tell you, Minister, when I listen to you, on the one hand I am positively built and on the other hand I am shocked. Why? Do you think that the policy of the European Commission, because you praised it so much, is in line with the policy of the Polish Ministry of Agriculture on breeding? After all, it would be best for them if we didn't have breeding. [[Yes, sir.]] That's one question. Two. You think health surveillance is doing the best it can. I understand your Senator Wojtyla perfectly, but medicine is one, veterinary or human. There are specific routes to transport. This isn't heavy air, it's not medieval that we don't know the way around. They're clearly defined, we know what the routes are. Does veterinary supervision understand the means of transport and is it capable of interrupting them? Third question. Are you doing tests other than blood tests? 'Cause it's kind of an old test. Now there's a modern belt test, and in five minutes, you have a score. Next question. I already asked Minister Jurgel that question last year. Do you have supervision of the sanitary discharge? I repeat, do you have supervision of the sanitary discharge? Do you even know how to fire a bathroom? Does it even happen? Does a hunter have to pay e.g. 80 or 100 zlotys to get the right to a sanitary discharge? Is that normal? And then... [[That's it.]] That's it? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u72	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u73	In general, I do not praise the European Commission and the European Commission's conduct towards Poland, or I do so very rarely. I am talking about the fact that, in this case, the European Commission, these officials we have talked to so far, are beginning to understand the nature of the problem and the dangers and want to support Poland, but also Ukraine, in the fight against ASF. I have not yet mentioned that near the Polish border, in Ukraine, cases of... And Ukraine really has bigger problems than ASF and can't deal with this disease. This is why the European Commission has decided that, if Ukraine presents a programme to combat ASF, this programme should be co-financed by European funds. It also finances the Polish programme. But we are very strongly and decisively negotiating with the European Commission, for example with regard to those zones which are trying to introduce their regulations to us. We have opposed them repeatedly because we believe that these restrictions are too far-reaching in relation to the threat in Poland, that the Commission does not take into account the fact that, as far as these recent outbreaks are concerned, there was actually one source or two sources. So here's the convergence point. We will see if after today's talks there will be a will to economic support for Polish farmers, or not. Then I will either praise or criticize the European Commission more strongly in this regard. And in general, I am very critical of many of the European Commission's behaviour, for example, regarding the response to the milk market, earlier in the pigmeat market and in many other markets, or actually about the deterioration of these markets. We have proposed completely different solutions than those in the European Union. But that's by the way. Veterinary surveillance understands and knows the routes to spread this disease. I, speaking of the fact that there are so many of them and they're not quite known, talked about the roads that have appeared recently. The infections that have been so far... Here, as if not complementary, because I am unable to complete my knowledge, but confirming what you said to the marshal, I will say that the disease has been present in Africa for centuries. Her virus is present. The virus in Europe was in Spain 35 years ago. He appeared in Sardinia and has been fighting and breeding pigs for years, but he does not drive them outside Sardinia. Even though it is an island surrounded by the sea, it cannot cope with the disease. And the routes of spreading are that it most often occurs between wild animals related to pigs. So in the case of Poland they are wild, but they are not only wild, because in other countries they were other animals. I'm not a biologist, so I can confuse names. Anyway, this is the easiest way, because if these animals are alive, they move and contact. And the next way is to move from wild boars, from wild animals to pig herds. And here's a couple of roads. Domestic or wild animals may be involved if they somehow reach the pigsty. Plant materials used in breeding may be involved, e.g. litter. And that's what happened lately in one case. In addition to the litter, the remains of the fallen boar were transported along with the straw. In one case, it happened through feed infected with some leftovers. And in this context, I told you there's a lot of roads, and there's a man who can take part in it by moving... He's going into the woods, making contact with the virus because there was a wild boar nearby. I think even the feces of a living wild boar can infect you. And then he doesn't change and walks into his pigsty. This is all known, only the degree of threat in any case is different. I was talking more about it. As far as pets are concerned, e.g. Dogs and cats. I've mentioned this before, but there's a lot more to these roads. Supervision understands that and warns against it by farmers. In the case of the last cases, except for the first one, because we do not know what the original source was. It is generally known that a man was involved. Not as a host, because the human host is not, but as an intermediate link that carries the disease through the purchase and introduction of sick animals or through the transfer between the wild and the pig... [[I know, Minister. Surveillance understands that. But why are there still pigs without certificates of origin?]] Because... [[If supervision understands it all.]] Because we have 1 million 300,000 farms, and the veterinarians... I don't remember how many thousands there are. We are not able to place a veterinarian on each farm with every farmer. I'll tell the facts here. It has happened that veterinarians who visit farms ask farmers whether they are breeding pigs and carry out checks while leaving, they heard there somewhere between the bales or packages of straw squealing pig, hidden by the farmer. Like I said, we could do it during the war. We really are a very creative nation. [[Smart.]] If there is no awareness of farmers, no veterinary supervision, no police, no inspection is able to be 100% sure. Because we wouldn't have a crime if the service were able to act in such a way that they would protect us from any crime. It's just a crime or a misdemeanor. These are unlawful conduct for the time being, at least in areas where restrictions are in place. The fact that no one's breaking the law is our wish. So far, no one in any country has been able to bring it in. When it comes to tests other than blood collection... We don't know these tests these days. Yesterday I was informed by one of our services that China will probably attempt some vaccines in Europe. The United States has been conducting such research, spending millions of dollars, so far unsuccessfully. There are no test methods or vaccines in Europe. Over a clean-up fire... It was a project that Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel prepared in the first days of his duties as Minister of Agriculture and brought to the table. It's been passed, and it's about the firing aid, as the senator calls it, sanitary boars. It's about limiting the feral population to a maximum of half an individual per square mile. We were convinced that if that money came out, the hunting wheels would sign the contracts and make the shot. It happened that the hunting wheels signed contracts for the shooting of just over 8,000 wild boars, of the 40,000 we planned. So far, they've shot off less than 6,000. Because it was a voluntary mechanism, so it had to be an agreement between the veterinarian and the hunting wheel operating in the area. And at the same time the Polish Hunting Union began to communicate information And yet in the report of NIK from last year it was that the population of wild boars reached from 1 piece to 2 pieces per km2, that suddenly this population even in areas where there is no ASF, dropped to 0,59. [[Depends on who's counting.]] I can understand that in areas where ASF is among wild boars, wild boars could simply have died because of the disease. But in the rest of the area, just two or three. - Four times the population of the boars has fallen. There are no methods that are verifiable, counting the population of wild boars by the state. [[If they shoot like that, they're gone.]] Maybe they ran away... [[They moved to warm countries.]] So for now, of course, we're going to be implementing the mechanism that came up in the project, but it's just going to be discussed. I don't want to dwell on it. An increase in the firing and the right of the district veterinarian to impose an obligation of firing on the hunting wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u74	Sorry, about the whole sanitary thing... Don't you think the Minister wouldn't have done anything like that if we had. Did they even shoot off all the wild boars in the endangered regions of ASF? [[No, no.]] No boar. That's a very serious question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u75	In a situation where the Białowieża Forest and a few other large forest complexes are unopened, this is an impossible task. But I am in favour of reducing the wild boar population in ASF areas as much as possible. That's what I say at meetings when one of the hunting circles says we've achieved this ratio of 0.5. 0,5 is the maximum ceiling. We want it to be 0.0 or a maximum of 0.01 etc., which is the smallest population. Talking about how we're capable of shooting off all the wild boars in the face of the forest's not fence... In fenced forests it would be difficult, and we are talking about the beautiful Białowieża Forest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u76	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Czerwinski's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I understand this law as the first in this case, a partial act which is consequently intended to lead to the impossibility of imposing an embargo on Poland on the export of pigmeat and possibly other products. As I say, this excuse... That is why I believe that it is very important, especially for farmers. But the most important thing will be what the Minister said was that it had already been adopted by the government and will be presented to the Sejm, which is this comprehensive law. The first question is: are we really at risk of the embargo if we do not attach ourselves to this importance? Question two. You presented here what might be found in the comprehensive law, but this was, I would say, the issue of indirect transmission of this virus, which is actually human activity. And the root cause, the wild ones we're talking about here... You yourself said it was not possible to shoot all wild boars in sanitary lanes of width, I don't know, 50 kilometers from the eastern and northern border. We have to make it clear that there's a reservoir of these boars, and they come to us from there. The borders are not guarded, of course, in this respect, and therefore these wild boars will continue to infect our wild boar population and our pigs. The question is, have you considered I'm talking about the government. The fence of the most sensitive fragments of the Polish border? I know it may seem strange, but where there are no natural obstacles, it could simply prevent the continuous influx of these viruses in Poland. It is expensive, but let us remember that we protect against the virus not only the area of Poland, but also the area of Europe. Maybe the European Commission would add to this, because this fence would take place at the external borders of the European Union and on one internal one, namely Lithuania, because unfortunately this fence would have to be placed there too. The question is concrete: did you consult the language, or did you find out if the European Union would agree to this? That's one thing. Secondly, will he contribute to this? It would be radical and expensive, but it would protect the Union and us from the ASF. And one last thing. This bill, as far as certain entities are concerned, gives them certain privileges. She obliges the state and the public finance sector... I'm talking about art. 5. Well, these units of the public finance sector, if they're gonna order a pig live product... He's to be manufactured in accordance with this bill. This is some sort of order plumbing, let's get this straight. The question is whether the public finance sector, the public finance sector units, is a very broad concept. This is all the budget bets, the municipal units... Well, that's a very broad concept. This includes the entire system of local government, not to mention state entities. Would not such a broad definition in the law of obliged entities lead in a sense to absurdity and paralysis? In fact, we are here, as I understand it, about military procurement, related to defence objectives and strategic objectives. Is such a broad view of this in the article. 5 will not lead to ...maybe not so much to overturn this bill, because it will work, as to paralysis of these units, because it will not be possible to buy I don't know, maybe I'm overreacting. A piece of sausage for an integration event in a budget facility in some municipality in the western part of Poland, because it will threaten to violate the discipline of public finances?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u79	Currently, we are not in danger of an embargo on the export of pigmeat outside this area, which has been identified in the last implementing decision. It is about the majority of Podlaskie voivodship, several powiats from Mazowieckie voivodship and one district from Lublin voivodship. This embargo continues here, but only until October 15th. There will remain areas of several municipalities which are most at risk, where diseases and boars occur, and in pigs for which these restrictions will be longer, 2-year-old. If the disease begins to spread in Poland, there will be such a threat, but it must be remembered that Poland is an importer of pig meat and live animals, not their exporter, per balance of course, as is the case in free trade. We sell some, but we import twice as much, so per balance we are an importer. Therefore, as far as our commercial balance is concerned, this risk does not threaten Poland so much. The point is that in Poland it will still be able to continue and develop... We would like to return to self-sufficiency in terms of pig production in Poland. And to this self-sufficiency according to our program, despite ASF, we intend to pursue. ASF, the disease that's spreading is definitely threatening this. As far as wild boar is concerned, voluntary forms so far have failed. I mentioned, perhaps not very clearly, that the draft law, which is already adopted by the government, changed the law, allowing hunting wheels to be subject to a certain amount of firing. At the same time, we introduce a provision that allows us to give a reward, compensation for reporting dead boar. Dead wild boars can be a source of infection for a long time. Except this reward will only be for foresters and hunters. We did not agree with the ideas that appeared at the meeting of the Parliamentary or Senate Committee, so that such a supplement, such a reward, would apply to all Poles, because we fear that searching for wild boars by the tyralist of young people or older people, pensioners could lead to the spread of this disease, not to the gathering of fallen animals. Instead of looking for mushrooms, they'd be looking for dead boars. It would be too epidemiologically dangerous. These are actions that are already planned. Regarding the border fence, during the talks with Commissioner Andriukaitis and his services, we proposed funding, support from the European Commission for the fence of the Polish eastern border. Commissioner Andriukaitis and his services sceptically approached this idea, believing that support for Ukraine to combat the disease is more appropriate. Belarus signals that there is no ASF problem, but we do not know what it really is. Therefore, the European Commission's calculation of substantive and financial support for border fences seems not to be available at this stage. We are currently conducting an analysis of the effectiveness of such action, the purpose of such action and the costs of such action. The difficulty was that in the past year, specialists, scientists, including Polish, veterinary specialists, dealing with, among others. The ASF problem, they presented to the Sejm committee that wild boars were not needed because wild boars would fall at a very rapid rate and enter this place in a healthy way, and the problem would end automatically. And the second information we received at the committee at the time was that the border fence didn't make sense. We, as the opposition at that time, had a different opinion. Unfortunately, in the case of wild boars it was confirmed and the same scientists changed their minds in the meantime and admitted their mistake. As far as border fences are concerned, they're still skeptical about the idea. Nevertheless, the government, which is more sensitive, is considering this issue, but we want to conduct a full analysis. As far as meat and shopping are concerned, there is no such concern, because it is meat processed into canned meat, that is what we are talking about, and this will be defined by a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, or similar or similar... of the same kind. So I'm sure you can buy raw meat for pork chops in a normal procedure, any other... It's got to be just reasonable here. This provision is only meant to lead to the fact that, for example. The units mentioned by your Senator will not buy other cans or something that can be replaced. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u81	Minister, I would like to ask these questions that the Senator rapporteur could not answer. Namely: will the list of producers who will be processing this meat be public? And the second question is, will the veterinary services get more resources to be able to do much more? I'd also like to ask the Minister... Since these processed products will be even better, better quality and safe, which I would like to believe, but personally I would not buy such a can, like most of you Why don't we leave the decision to the consumers? How would you feel about labeling such products? Let consumers decide. Since the sustainability of these products is very long, it will be very long, it should be thought that sooner or later they will be sold, but let it be the choice of consumers. Mr. Senator Czerwiński has actually exhausted most of my question, but I will ask. Does this provision, which refers to the obligation to order meat products in cans in the first place, apply to hospitals, school canteens, social services houses? Should it be read in such a way that they will be obliged, as Senator Czerwiński said... that they cannot buy pork meat for dinner, but they must buy cans, and it is just these cans? Because that's how I understand the description of this recipe.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u82	The list of producers will, of course, be public. These producers will have to obtain the consent of the district veterinarian to carry out such activities, meet certain conditions, and it is also necessary to inform the European Commission of the designation of such establishments. Veterinarians are already receiving more national and EU funding; in the case of ASF control it is 50:50, so half is subsidised by the European Commission. I'll buy it myself. The chief veterinarian also said he'd buy it. I'd like to remember the taste of canned meat, which, as I say, I remember, even from the army, from the folk, or from the time I bought these canned meats, if I could afford it, in Peweks. [[Enjoy your meal.]] As for the label, it will be done by companies, they will probably use the right name to name such a product. Since it will be a homogeneous product, I would propose a name: meat in meat, but... It would be the first time in many, many years... I really did not meet a product on the market that is produced in such a way as to technology. And it's a matter of duty. I will read this entry: The units of the public finance sector, awarding orders for the supply of pig meat products which, as far as the type, composition or characteristics are concerned, meet the requirements corresponding to or similar to the requirements laid down in the legislation... So it's not gonna be like school, like I said, buying raw meat on pork pork, stew, it's gonna be obliged... So is the hospital. No. The thing is, if someone's buying canned goods or something... The point is not to circumvent the provisions of this law, not to impose an additional obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u83	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, not all half-carcases after slaughter are suitable for processing into canned goods, and therefore more post-mortem waste will need to be disposed of. Shouldn't the European Commission again be asked to restore the possibility of using meat-and-bone meal, which is an excellent protein feed and which was widely used before the emergence of so-called meat-and-bone meal. Mad cow disease? I remember the discussion on the revision of feed law in the previous term, where the subject was also raised. And today, perhaps even in science a little bit has changed the view of the impact of these feedingstuffs on the occurrence of this disease. On the one hand, it would be an opportunity, I think, to use this waste and on the other, to improve the balance of feed, protein in our country and perhaps even in the European Union, because we know that huge amounts of soya have been imported, which is genetically modified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u85	Poland has repeatedly requested to allow cross feeding with meat-and-bone meal. This year, Minister Jurgiel spoke with this... To date, we do not have the consent of the European Commission. The main argument raised is that it is very difficult to distinguish whether there is no direct feeding or whether this meal comes at least in some part from animals of the same species, and this is in the opinion The European Commission is unacceptable. Of course, we can repeat this, but so far the answers have been negative, although this is considered in the European Commission in terms of the possibility of secondary testing of these meats, these meal... in terms of genetic testing of their composition and origin. But I would like to reassure you that the disposal of these remains... Because, as the senator rightly pointed out, things can't be changed. The residue will be a little more than in the case of industrial processing, which is currently taking place because there will be no so-called. momu, or mechanically separated meat, will not be used certain parts of the pig. Thus, the disposal will take place as the bets usually do, on the spot, in these plants, without transport. Because the plants are equipped for this incinerator. It should also be remembered that when it comes to production, it will be a full division of production lines, full security. The plant switching from production for this purpose to production for another purpose will have to meet very high veterinary rigors.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u86	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask the Minister... Because I'm pretty sure these cans are also perfect for state supplies. After all, state supplies are rotating every few years. Therefore, I think the material we are talking about here can be used as much as possible for such supplies. And also, Minister, I have a question. You said Perhaps, it was probably a slip of the tongue. Our health and veterinary services are not working very well. I have been the chief health inspector for many years, I have worked with veterinary inspection, we have dealt with many events like avian flu or swine flu. And so far I've been invited to international conferences in the United States, Asia, even Egypt What do they pay me for? And so far the practice of our veterinary and sanitary services is a model practice. We deal with many infectious diseases better than other countries. And this opinion would be detrimental to the Polish veterinary services. That's why I'm talking about it. It was also discussed here that our veterinary services may not be the best when it comes to public health. I, as a doctor who knows about public health 'Cause I'm a specialist in this field. I worked with veterinarians. And I have to say that our veterinary universities are very well educated in public health. And that opinion would also be harmful for veterinarians. There was also a discussion here about the possibility of testing the virus with strip tests. Ladies and gentlemen, this is impossible, and we need a DNA test for that. We've just expanded, set up a network of labs. In addition to the veterinary institute in Puławy, which I would like to say is one of the best scientific institutes in Europe. They're involved in DNA testing, so-called PCR. And the strip test for the virus is a misunderstanding. And I would also like to address the issue of burying fallen animals here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's not go back to the time when there was a hobby in every assembly. Because it's not that time anymore.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. But let me remind you of the time limit: 1 minute to ask a question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u89	There was a question about state supplies. Of course, the issue of state stocks is a state secret, so I can't talk about everything here, but I'll say we're working with the appropriate department that's dealing with it, and I'm sure that's taken into account. As far as veterinary and sanitary services are concerned, I fully agree, this is the opinion on our services not only in Poland but also in the European Commission. That doesn't mean that there are no failures, just like in every job and every unit. I was just talking about the fact that the division into several services creates legal gaps between certain actions or the overlap of tasks. And that's what a joint inspection is supposed to be. At the same time, the main flaw of this activity is the constant, permanent underfunding, the lack of resources to hire good doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u91	Minister, it is right that we have applied for European money also for Ukraine to combat this disease. This disease is going rather from the Belarusian direction. It's understandable to me that Belarus won't admit It doesn't, it doesn't, it doesn't, it That such outbreaks are, of course, if they are, for financial, economic reasons. I believe, however, that we need to talk to the Belarusians about this, because we will not be isolated, even by creating a border. On the Belarusian side, there is still a so-called border. system. There are barbed wires, quite dense fences, etc. We can still fence it, but... well, that fence clearly can't handle it. I think that we should talk to the Belarusians, although perhaps without publicising it. Are you going to talk to the Belarusians? That's my question. And then there's the second line. I think if there's a problem... And this problem is, this is an emergency. The proposal to reorganize veterinary and medical services is not good at such a time. You're talking about a proposal to combine these two words. Any such reorganisation I don't want to judge that at the moment. It must cause a mess. I therefore call for this, at least at the moment, not to do so in order to combat outbreaks of this disease, because this could cause a serious organisational problem. Do you think this is the right thing to do now, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u92	As for Ukraine, there is a misunderstanding here, Senator, Mr. Marshal. We didn't ask for support from Ukraine. It was the European Commission that said that it wanted to support Ukraine instead of the stronghold. As for Belarus, Minister Jurgiel was there this year and spoke with the Minister of Agriculture of Ukraine. The services are also in contact... [[Belarus.]] Yes, I'm talking about Belarus. Our services are also in contact with Belarusian services. Well, full information is when there's full honesty on both sides and full flow of information. But these conversations are going on, they're happening. It's not like we don't talk. When it comes to combining inspections, the Government of Law and Justice does not believe that it has a monopoly on wisdom and projects that are in the action programme, it must be implemented forcefully when analyses indicate that this should be done more slowly or at another time. Therefore, this project is not prepared in such a way that it will come into force from next year. This merger has been planned since 2018, but this is not a binding date either. This is a preliminary stage. I hope that at the next Senate meeting there will already be this new law, which will address veterinary issues more. Then Minister Lech, who is a specialist, will be here and is able to discuss this in substance. I admit I don't know much about veterinary medicine. As a farmer, I know about agriculture and the treatment of animals with more domestic methods, but I try to learn quickly. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I think the questions are over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u93	I don't see any more requests for questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Maciej Grubski. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like a list, please. Please take the floor of Senator Marshal Borowski. You're welcome. [[Bravo! Finally, it's wise...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say that the Senate is characterized by this, that many times can be done Of course, if you want to. I'm gonna find out what's going on. There was much to learn from today's debate. I would like to thank Minister Bogucki for the lecture he has made with mathematical precision and in which he has actually responded to a number of doubts. I think it's the way it's been adopted here, and it's perfectly acceptable, and it might make sense, but there's a danger. Namely, as we know, rumor has big eyes. A variety of rumors about what is harmful and what is healthy can spread and harm very quickly. Hurt the country, harm the producers, etc. Here we are dealing with such a situation that... I am convinced... I understand the whole process, I understand why the government is not going to this option. He's got it in reserve, but he's not going to that option. supplies and disposals, but I fear the following scenario... After all, our debates In front of all of us, so to speak, spells and no fear. But they're public. There's the media, there's the press... We also know how the media can act, we know how they can act, for example. tabloids only need to ask a question, with a question mark at the end, and that will be enough. Well, the risk, in my opinion, is that the plants that are going to produce these cans, they're also going to produce cans and produce cans, so they're going to produce normal cans for the market, they have their brand, their companies, that's what it looks like. And if there's such a rumor that this is bet X, I don't mention any name here. It produces canned meat from this meat, although 120°C etc., etc. I'm against it, because it's worse, it's gonna panic and it's gonna hurt this bet, because people just won't buy his cans at all. Today, those bets you're talking about are all for that, but I don't know if they've thought this through. If something like this goes off later, it's obviously gonna be a problem, and it's gonna be a problem, and I'm not gonna do it, and I'm not gonna do it, and I'm not gonna do it, and I'm not gonna hide it, and I'm not gonna wait for it, so to speak, the government's gonna get it. So here's what I'm thinking: it's not such a huge amount, it's still spread over time. It seems to me that yes: firstly, the state reserves will then spread over a longer period of time and calmer; secondly, exports, because we have heard that there is a European Commission square in this case and there is no problem if it is produced in a certain way. And if there were any signs that someone was asking, someone was worried, etc., there should be government information that these canned goods weren't being put on the market, that's it, period. Otherwise... Well, we're risking it, it might turn out to be okay, but if it is, then it's a big problem. I would therefore suggest considering such a solution. Also, as far as the wild boar issue is concerned... As I read somewhere, there are about 40,000 boars in this area. Shooting them all makes absolutely no sense. As you say, there's half a boar over there at 1 km2. Well, I wish you'd say there's one boar per mile, 'cause that half boar doesn't look good. I understand that right now, after these agreements, hunting wheels don't add to it anymore, because if hunters were to pay for every wild boar... Well, it doesn't make sense, and they're not gonna do it. So I understand this case is settled. You're spinning your head, that's not exactly what you're saying. Well, I'd offer to take her to the end, 'cause they're just not gonna shoot if they have to pay. Therefore, this issue must also be resolved. I share Senator Czerwiński's view here, however, that it is necessary to step up analyses and actions concerning fences, fences, etc., because this case will be repeated on a number of occasions. I can see that now. The fight against this disease in Ukraine must be conducted, but it is a long case; we know what it looks like there. Belarus, on the other hand, is difficult to get along with, and this will continue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Bierecki. [[Senator Stanisław Rooster: He's not here. He resigned.)]] There isn't. Therefore, you are Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for the quite extensive information you have provided to us here, senators, so that we can get a deeper look at this matter. There were a lot of questions coming out of the senators' mouth. I think they were just an expression of concern and concern about health, about safety. However, I would like to point out that, as mentioned at the outset by the senator's colleague, the rapporteur, this law is particularly necessary for livestock farmers. They need her most, as has been said many times here. It's about the photo at least. I'll give you an indication of what you're going to do. 100 thousand animals of the flock, which cannot be removed from this restricted zone. Such actions, which the government is undertaking, are very right and rational, because this is done costlessly, as the government, the minister's representative, said. The idea is to do it properly and secure everything. I think the second element of the fight against the AFS is the fight against illegal disposal, the trafficking of animals outside of... It is probably very sensible that we take such measures to prevent the spread of AFS, or African swine fever. I think those threats that arise here... I think this is not only the concern of the government itself, but also the concern of the European Commission. I have participated in a number of discussions in Brussels on the AFS, I have participated in many meetings and with the Commissioner, and with representatives who have given examples of how to fight the AFS, they have said how Spain has fought. The Minister here made it clear how they fought, what they led to. And as they explained to us, we mustn't kill boars, because wild boars themselves will fall, they will get infected faster, and the fire will be destroyed faster. You can clearly see that this is not a very good way, that is, the one that the Spanish used. And I think today those right decisions... The Minister did not mention here, but Belarus immediately took action. And they weren't thinking about the law that exists in civilized Europe, they were shooting wild boars there. And they didn't think about what to do, but they fought in such a brutal way, without thinking... the public didn't take any action there. We want to do it in a civilized way, and thank you. The Minister was talking about preparing a second bill, so that we could... I hope that this legislation, which we are now about to adopt, will really help solve this situation. The farmers are alarming me, and they just called me. They call and ask, when are you finally gonna pass this bill when you guys are gonna give us a chance to really go over the top... And there are still doubts, Minister, whether the same price will be paid for all over-the-counter art. It's not the farmer's fault they're locked up and can't leave the pigsty. Hence the doubts. The farmers' request is that the Prime Minister announced it as soon as possible. We want to know that after Sunday, the buy-in will start any day now. That's what farmers expect. Thank you, Minister, for being so fast-paced... We expect a second action as soon as possible so that we can effectively fight the disease. I hope that the bioinsurance programme will be even more effective. And appeal to farmers: Farmers' colleagues, let's follow the rules. It's like a lab, you have to make sure security... in the West, friends don't let anyone in their pigsty. There's no outsiders allowed in there, there's just no entrance to the pigsty. Let's follow the rules, make sure the neighbors don't go in there, don't show... Let's stick to bio-insurance rules so we don't have any problems. This is my call to farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My friends told me to talk short. So it'll be short, ladies and gentlemen. Farmers in some parts of Wielkopolska and Kujawsko-Pomorskie are trembling at the moment, afraid... It's an expectation that ASF's disease didn't reach their area. Any action is needed to prevent this from happening. I'm gonna concentrate... Two sentences on the bill we're investigating today. I don't believe in such a perpetuum mobile, that so without money, without resources it will all go around as it is in the bill, Minister. Here's what's going to happen: either the prices of the living are going to go down, or the public finance units are actually going to make such orders that they're going to buy everything that goes on the market in the form of these cans. There's a question... Senator Borowski was just talking about it. We talk a lot about these cans, it's loud about this, but the more we talk about it, the harder it's gonna be to sell. I'm afraid the bets that are now declaring entry into this business are saying they want to produce these cans, they're about to start thinking about it. There are therefore 2 options: either the price of a living person, which is more real, will fall and farmers will be dissatisfied, or the public finance sector, as you plan in this law, will be burdened with all this and will have to buy it. The question of how much of this stuff is going to come out on the market and if he's able to buy it... Do you have any analysis that confirms that the market is able today You don't know what's gonna happen next week, take what's gonna... As I say, I don't believe in perpetuum mobile, that without subsidies, without resources, so costlessly, it's all gonna turn itself on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u99	Thank you very much. And Mr. Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u100	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I welcome the statements of some opposition representatives. It is true, Mr Senator, that we are talking about such matters, very important for the Polish state, in an open way, too. I am from the Podlaskie voivodship and I am convinced, Mr. Senator, that this boar that was infected with ASF was planted there. I'm convinced of that. It's hard for me to talk about evidence, but this problem needs to be considered. It seems to me that veterinary services should be trained so that in such cases... If something like this happens, it should be notified to the minister. And it's only the minister who decides what's going to happen next. I think that the statements of the opposition senators will make us all care more about certain information. It is no secret that in the interests of many countries, not only in the east, it is so that we cannot sell our meat so that we cannot sell our agricultural fruits. And now we have a problem with apples, because it's said that there are too many pesticides in them. So that I think this discussion is necessary and informative. Minister, it would be good to think about passing on this information in a way that is often carefree when it comes to terrain and veterinary matters. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Mr. Senator Rulewski. It's a formal matter, isn't it? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to reiterate my request to complete the agenda of today's sitting, and I understand that the third point in which an appeal would be made to the United Kingdom Parliament. I would like to point out that the applicants have fulfilled their wishes and responsibilities regarding printing, delivery to the Marshal's office and to the draft appeal committee. I ask the High House to accept my request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the Marshal has submitted a draft resolution to the committee. This draft resolution can be dealt with when the committee finishes its work. As long as there is no committee report, the proposal is irrelevant. We proceed with the second agenda: the law on trust services and electronic identification. The text of the Act is contained in print No 268 and the report of the Commission In print No 268 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a draft law aimed at adapting the Polish legal order to the Regulation of the European Parliament on electronic identification and trust services in relation to electronic transactions in the internal market. This Regulation, first of all, lays down the conditions for the recognition by Member States of means of electronic identification of natural and legal persons covered by the notified electronic identification system of another Member State; secondly, lays down rules on trust services, in particular electronic transactions; thirdly, it establishes a legal framework for electronic operators, electronic seals, electronic time stamps, electronic documents, registered service electronic services, certified website authentication services. This is simply adapting, as I said at the beginning, to EU law. At the committee meeting, Senator Florek asked the problem questions to the current representative of the Ministry who answered these questions. The 9-person Commission unanimously supported the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u105	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Tadeusz Kościński: There is no need.]] No. Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I declare a recess until 2.30 p.m., followed by a vote. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 39 to 14 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u106	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Attention, please be quiet, because I want to sit down!]] Thank you very much, Senator, for your help. Oh, it was effective. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act on special arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments of Senate printing No 270 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 74 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on specific arrangements for the occurrence of African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Poland. We return to the second agenda: the law on trust services and electronic identification. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 268 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 76 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on trust services and electronic identification. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 21st Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will be held on the day... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: Shh!]] If no change occurs, it will take place on 21 and 22 September 2016 and will start at 10 a.m. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] [[Finally.]] The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to make senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to take the floor and make a statement? I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reporting. You're welcome, Senator, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two statements. I am the first to address the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Representatives of the local government from the municipality of Czernice Borowe came to my senator's office with an increasing number of burglaries and thefts. The number of robberies with fatal outcome is also very disturbing to my listeners. The municipality of approximately 4 000 inhabitants has mostly scattered housing, which is conducive to criminal activity, as demonstrated by the cases of cannabis cultivation and illicit cigarette production. My interlocutors stressed that the reduction in security occurred when the police station had been shut down since the end of World War II. Currently, by decision of the previous government team, the municipality of Czernice Borowe is attached to the district of operation of the Krasne station, about 30 km away. Therefore, I ask for information as to whether, according to the Ministry and the Command, it is possible to launch a police station in the municipality of Czernice Borowe. I would like to stress that the representatives of the municipality declare the renovation of the building in Czernice Borowe intended for the police station. And a second statement, addressed to the treasure minister. My senator's office was approached by representatives of the city and the municipality of Glinojeck with the problem of sluggishness and growing the trough of the river Vkra flowing through this city. My interlocutors point to a high flood risk at a time of severe rainfall. The Corite of the river is more than covered with mud. Even a small drop of rain causes a rapid rise of the river at the height of the Glinojeck bridge. This may in the future, under adverse weather conditions, cause major traffic perturbations on an important road, which is the national road No 60. I therefore ask for information as to whether it is possible to allocate funds for deepening and cleaning the riverbed of the Vekra in this sensitive place. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u108	Thank you very much. No more statements? Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Dear Minister, I ask that the following figures be presented in tabular form, held by you or by your subordinate voivods, from 2010 to 2016, broken down by year, and in the case of data from 2015 and 2016 with detail for the six-month period. First, please provide data covering the total number of people who have lost Polish citizenship as a result of the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to renounce Polish citizenship, and the number of applications submitted in this regard. Secondly, please provide data covering the total number of persons who acquired Polish citizenship by: The President's granting of Polish citizenship, recognition as a Polish citizen by decision of the voivodship, the restoration of Polish citizenship by the competent minister, Reparation procedure, and The number of applications submitted in these cases. In addition to presenting these data by year, possibly half a year, please also aggregate according to the reasons mentioned here for acquiring Polish citizenship and according to the foreign citizenship already held by the applicants. Thirdly, please provide data covering the total number of people to whom the voivodship has confirmed the possession of Polish citizenship and the number of applications submitted in this regard. I ask that these data be presented not only by individual years, possibly six months, but also aggregated because of the voivodship, and if possible In view of the applicant's foreign nationality, e.g. on the basis of his place of residence. Do these figures and trends revealed in them cause concern to the Minister, especially in the context of the recent discussion by.Gazeta Wyborcza about the necessity and necessity of the problem of reprivatisation by the Polish State? How is reprivatisation related to the lack or possession of Polish citizenship by persons to be beneficiaries of it?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-09-09-senat-25-1.u110	Thank you very much. There's no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 25th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 25th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 14 minutes 39]]
