ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Adam Andruszkiewicz, Wojciech Król, Małgorzata Golinska and Krystian Jarubas. Members Adam Andruszkiewicz and Wojciech Król will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Wojciech Król and Krystian Jarubas. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats and I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10, - Economy and Development - h.m. 10, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 10, - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Health-- hour. 12, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 13, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 14, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 14.15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14.15, - Health together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 14.45, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 15, - to the European Union together with the Health Commission and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at 3 p.m. 3.30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 16, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - Infrastructure - hour 18, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18. The following parliamentary teams will also be held: - Parliamentary Volleyball Team - h.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: public health - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Construction of the express road S74 - hour 11, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 13, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Badminton Promotion - hour 5:30 p.m., - Parliamentary Aviation Team - hour 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The formal request was made by Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, May 12th is the 90th anniversary of the May bombing. It is one of the blackest cards in the history of Poland, cards that have written very badly in our history. Because of the legally acting and elected power, an assassination was organised which prevented the government from carrying out the reform of the state, which the Prime Minister of the Government of Vincenta Witos wanted to do. We, members of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, submitted a draft resolution to this effect, which was already on 11 April in the freezer, which was not to be. When I asked Deputy Marshal Terletki about what was happening with the draft resolution, I received an answer that it was a draft resolution politically incorrect and it would not be submitted to the High House. So on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I ask the Marshal, the Sejm Bureau: Is it so true that our project will not see the light of day? This is a very important project that shows how democracy was also destroyed at the time. In fact, the May bombing started a plexus of adverse events for the Second Republic of Poland, which ended in a September defeat. It was an event starting a sequence: the Brest process, being imprisoned in Kartuska Berez. The Polish People's Party considers that this period should be condemned. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I ask the High House to commemorate the minute of silence of 379 victims who died on two sides of the barricade and to commemorate this event. [[The Gathered Rise Up]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u5	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u6	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u7	Thank you, sir. However, this matter should be referred to the Sejm Bureau. You kind of surprised us with that minute of silence. This case better be handled by the entire Sejm. I will refer this matter to the Marshal at the Sejm Bureau meeting. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - the prevention of sexual crime threats, - amending the Polish Charter Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints Nos 484 and 496 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Public Roads Act and the Act on toll motorways and on the National Road Fund. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question is asked by Members Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Szymon Giżyński, Marek Kwitek and Krzysztof Szulowski from the Law and Justice Club. The question on the draft law on farmers' cooperatives is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The question is asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Cooperatives in Europe and the world have played a very important role in organising economic life in Europe since the founding of the Association of Fair Pioneers. She played a particular role in the countryside, also in Polish territory in all three partitions was a basic form of economic activity. Stefczyk in Austria, Fr. Lorenzo in Prussian or Fr. Blizinski in the Russian occupation, to name only the most important ones, were pioneers, taught farmers about their own welfare. Besides, the Polish name, the equivalent of the cooperative, is a cooperative. When a proper name was sought, it was determined that this was a joint action. This is also what Stanisław Staszic described as cooperativeism - as a joint action, joint management of poverty. After the war in communist times, the idea of cooperativeism was distorted. In fact, what was called cooperatives in Poland was derived from the Soviet Union and had little to do with cooperative rules. There is no doubt that cooperatives also play an important role in Europe today - for example the General Committee for Agricultural Cooperatives, which is one of the main centres of farmers' influence on the European Union. It seems to me that regardless of the pathology that has grown around cooperatives over the years, this form should be supported in Poland, it should be developed. This legal formula did not work out and I think it could continue to serve farmers well. For this, legislative action is needed to modernise the application of the cooperative principle in agriculture. I would like to know what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the draft law on farmers' cooperatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u9	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Jacek Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your question, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Agriculture has already developed a working version of the draft law on farmers' cooperatives, which will shortly be the subject of internal and then external consultations and further work. The expected effect of the measures proposed in the Farmers' Cooperatives Act will be to improve the efficiency of the management of agricultural producers. As the Member has said, in other countries of the European Union, such institutions have been working successfully for years, and in Poland, with such a large fragmentation of agricultural holdings, it is particularly important to introduce solutions that will deepen the consolidation process at the level of agricultural producers, so that our agriculture is more competitive so that farmers can compete successfully on national and European markets. The aim of the solutions will be to create incentives for farmers to appoint entities which would operate on the basis of the principles of cooperative law, and these incentives would in particular be to exclude those who would become farmers' cooperatives from certain fiscal obligations. In addition, incentives of such a nature were also envisaged for cooperatives so that farmers' cooperatives would be further consolidated. The main purpose of such cooperatives would be to conduct business for their members' holdings by planning agricultural production, adapting the scale and quality of this production to market expectations, concentrating the supply of their members' products, and concentrating the demand for the means of production needed for cooperative members' holdings. In addition to these activities, farmers' cooperatives for their members could process agricultural products, supply their members with products, store them, store them and standardise them, trade their members and products from their processing, provide services to their members related to their production of agricultural products. In addition, they could disseminate environmentally beneficial cultivation methods, production technologies, waste management methods among their members. One of the basic requirements that such a cooperative would have to meet is its participation as members of a minimum of five producer farmers in the sector in which it will specialise. It would be possible for a farmer to belong only to one cooperative in a given segment, the production sector. In addition, cooperatives would be obliged to create funds, including a mutual fund, which would be collected and used by associations of farmers' cooperatives for the development and promotion of these entities. The indivisible reserve fund to which each cooperative will be obliged to set up will be transferred to the general cooperative in the event of its liquidation. Such a solution in the form of a cooperative law should actually apply in Poland for years. Unfortunately, we lost many years because in Poland farmers were able to come together on a general basis in cooperatives, but such cooperatives were subject to general tax and business obligations such as other legal entities. This did not encourage the creation of farmers' cooperatives, it put Polish farmers in a more difficult competitive situation on the domestic market and on the European market. We hope that this law will be passed in a short time so that farmers can benefit from its benefits and create cooperatives for farmers. Farmers who are already more and more interested in association are increasingly seeing the need for such association in relation to the dominant position of processing and trade in the agri-food chain, will certainly benefit from this law and be interested in its entry into force. I hope that in the course of further work on this law, we will refine the project so that it meets the expectations of the whole environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, an additional question - Mr Ardanowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u12	The creation and functioning of cooperatives was very strongly supported in the interwar period, among others. by Marshal Józef Piłsudski, whose anniversary of death today, May 12th, is celebrated. The Minister rightly pointed out that cooperatives served primarily to strengthen the market position of independent agricultural producers through the organisation of supply, processing and sales. After the war, unfortunately, in Poland the common use of the land, i.e. cooperative farms, was created, the equivalent of the so-called. collective farms, collective hijackings, from the Soviet Union, which distorted the cooperative idea. In Europe, this form of strengthening the market position of farms is an absolutely dominant form. On the other hand, there is a problem that we have collided with even when it comes to the land law, which must be regulated. What to do with those agricultural cooperatives that have land areas in their crops? Shouldn't they be considered collective multi-family farms and thus solve the problem? Is this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is she going to touch this problem, too, difficult and complicated?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u13	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This problem is directly governed by the law that it has today, does not solve and does not touch. We did not seek to change cooperative law solutions in this law. This law is intended to complement existing cooperative law and the issue of agricultural cooperatives is regulated there. However, agricultural cooperatives operating in the area of agricultural production will be able to benefit from this law by amending their statutes, amending their existing formula and entering into this new formula and activities on the basis of this formula, which will be proposed in the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the second question. Members of Mrs Isabella Leszczyn and Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Platform Club, ask them. This is a question about a letter from the Minister of Finance addressed to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Last week the whole public opinion was electrified by the fact that you addressed the President of the Constitutional Tribunal with a letter in which you asked the President of Prof. Andrzej Rzepliński to refrain from public statements until 13 May, the day on which Moodys announces a report on Poland's credibility. The content of the letter and the subsequent statements of the Law and Justice politicians, but also yours, shows that you were afraid that the President's words might affect the rating. I therefore have the following questions for the Minister. Minister! What is the legal basis for your letter to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal? I'm sure you're familiar with art. 7 Constitution according to which public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of law. Second question. Why did you not meet President Rzepliński personally, even though the President of the Tribunal proposed such a formula? Then we would avoid the noise of information and everything that we probably don't need before the credit rating agency makes a decision. Finally, the third question. The Moodys Agency, like all others, always conducts a number of meetings before taking a final decision, asks questions to representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Did these contacts give you reason to believe that Poland's credit credibility would be reduced? I think it's safe for you to answer that question today. The agency announces a rating tomorrow. I'm sure that decision has already been made, but we don't know it yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Szalamach, Minister of Finance, answers the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u18	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, the EBRD announced that it is increasing its economic growth forecast for our country from 3.3% to 3.6%. A similar positive assessment of the Polish economy about 10 days ago was issued by the European Commission, which lowered its expectations about the deficit level for the current year, as well as for 2017, which shows that it positively receives the actions of the Polish government, positively receives the actions of the Ministry of Finance. However, as we all know, for some time at least some credit rating agencies have been expanding or changing their methodology and apart from hard facts, numbers, data, statistics take into account what is very difficult to calculate, i.e. some investment climate, state of politics in the country and such factors. These are factors, by nature, judged, sometimes subjective, as we know, to evaluations. You can see that here in this House. I therefore sent a letter to President Rzepliński asking him to consider the behaviour mentioned in this letter. I had no reason to assume that this letter would be sent immediately to the media, because, above all, there is no such custom in correspondence between public authorities. I often mention correspondence with the National Bank of Poland, the head of the Financial Supervision Commission, people of different types, let's call it political connotations, which were appointed during the previous term of the Sejm, at the request of President Komorowski, etc. It was also not a practice in my previous correspondence with the President of Rzepliński himself. I mentioned a number of letters with him earlier concerning a number of cases, and I have always tried to ensure that they were as substantive and courtesy as possible and did not violate the rules, let's call it decent relations between the authorities of the state or at all the rules of relations between people who have serious positions. Therefore, I had no possibility or reason to believe that this letter would be immediately disclosed to the public, all the more so because, looking at this decision-making path that I had before me, I wondered what the addressee might do. Of course, he could not react at all, he could react positively, he could react negatively. However, please understand. You ask a man not to do anything, maybe he can help his country. It seems that most of us in this House would know how to behave and know what to do. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. [[You could have met to help your country.]] My request didn't make sense to the recipient. Perhaps it is a derivative of this intense, we admit, political life in our country in recent months. As for the second part of your question, I don't know what the evaluation of this agency is. I have no reason to assume that this assessment will be negative, also because, as I said, hard data are positive. This work, which was done by the Ministry of Finance, was carried out by the entire government in difficult negotiations - as you probably know, they remember from the time they performed their duties in the Ministry of Finance - by drawing up the form of the budget, the shape of the documents, for example the update of the convergence plan submitted to the European Commission. This work is being judged positively. The factors we're talking about are, let's say, outside the Ministry of Finance. So I decided that based on the legal basis... [[What's she like?]] The Member asks about the legal basis. It is the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the order to take care of the interests of the country which is directly upon me, as well as the order resulting from the law on the departments of government administration. [[Within the law.]] This is an obvious standard when it comes to taking all actions, all efforts to secure... [[Within the law.]] ...that business, and that's what I was doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u19	Thank you very much. The second question is asked by Janusz Silchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Firstly, it is worth noting that there is a law on access to public information and you cannot assume that the writings you send will not be made public. But they will, you always have to count. I'm sure it'd be better to see the president, though. But somehow I don't see you... I mean. you clearly don't see the connection between your own statements and what happens when it comes to ratings. And let me remind you what you said about the amendment of the 2015 budget law. Today, I think, you could hit your chest and admit that this vision you had here was nothing, just for a good cause, unwarranted. I therefore have a question: Are you willing, however, to publicly state the state of public finances? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the final deficit for 2015? How much would it have been if it hadn't been for this amendment if it hadn't been for the transfer of income from LTE? And what would be the rating of Poland today if it weren't for those mistakes of your government...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u21	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u22	...related to the amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u23	Thank you very much. Minister, will you respond to this? You're welcome. Minister Paweł Shalamach.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u24	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! These factors, which you mentioned, were not the basis for the decision in mid-January. If we read the S&P agency's note carefully, we will note that they do not question in this matrix the assessment of economic data. Finally, they - this part is very, very positive - are actually focusing on political issues, which is why countries like ours are asking themselves basic questions: What is their credit assessment methodology? What do they consider? Is this really a situation of clear, indistinguishable budget data, or any emotion, or is it that someone has some sympathy, someone doesn't like someone? Is he assessing the analyst because of his political views, or is he just looking at whether the country is capable of handling debt on time? And that was the basis for the decision in January. Therefore, I believe that your question here is a side shot. [[What's the deficit? What's the financial situation?]] As far as this presumption of correspondence is concerned, I suppose we will remain with our opinions. Notabene, please see that I was in no case referring to the judicial line of the Constitutional Tribunal. I didn't expect the president to abandon his goals, his principles, his business, to give them up publicly, in no case. I have written precisely that we will probably remain with the difference in assessing the reasons for what has been going on in recent months, but I think that perhaps we will be able to cut a certain sphere out of this, let's call it a reduced discussion temperature. And this sphere, perhaps, could be a discussion about public finances. Of course, this has not been understood, which is why we are meeting in this House today. Thank you. [[And what's the financial condition?]] [[What's the deficit?]] The deficit is published by the Central Statistical Office. [[You don't know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u25	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the third question. The question is asked by Barbara Chrobak and Andrzej Kobylarz, the Kukiz Club15. The first question you ask is Andrzej Kobylarz. The question on the government's proposed solutions to the difficult situation in the milk market is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm addressing the Minister of Agriculture with an inquiry. I have spent the last few weeks talking to many farmers, not only from the Elbląg region, but also from other voivodships. The situation on Polish farms is alarmingly bad. It's about buying milk. The question I would like to ask the Minister is to indicate the exact figures for the 2014/2015 quota year for which Polish farmers paid penalties for overproduction of milk. My question is: How much milk have we produced in Poland and how much milk and milk concentrate have we imported from abroad? Next question: What was the population of dairy cows in Poland in 2013/2014 and 2014/2015? What is the average efficiency of one cow when it comes to milk? Here I would ask for an answer, data in kilograms. And what milk quota did Poland have in the quota year from 1 April 2014 to 30 March 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u27	Thank you very much. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Jacek Bogucki, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I will try to answer these very detailed questions, and I will also give you detailed written information so that there is no mistake about the numbers, because not all the numbers I keep remembering, although I can quote a significant part of them in a moment. As far as the situation in the milk sector is concerned, the Ministry of Agriculture has been taking action on the situation on the milk market since the start of the Beata Szydło government and Krzysztof Jurgiel became Minister. Already at the turn of November and December we asked for an analysis of this situation within the European Union. We have asked for this again and there has been such a re-debate in February. The next debate will be next week, May 17th. These are debates taking place at the initiative of Poland, because the milk market is covered by the common organisation of the markets of the European Union. Therefore, a significant part of the support mechanisms must be implemented either at Union level or with the consent of the European Commission. This difficult situation on the milk market is mainly due to the situation on world markets: China's lower demand, the Russian embargo. This combined resulted in a fall in prices on global and European markets, although unfortunately in Poland we are seeing prices lower than they are on average in the European Union - at the moment about 8%. The national cattle population last year amounted to 2134 thousand. Pieces. This head fell, but milk production increased, so the productivity of Polish cows increased. When it comes to buying milk in 2015, we concentrated 10,872,000. t milk. It's an upward trend, because it was a 2.6% higher buy-in. than in the previous year, 2014 This growth trend continues in the first quarter of this year. Unfortunately, milk prices are falling, as I said, because they are currently lower than the European average by 8,5%. , as well as a 13% lower year-to-year rate - so this year, compared to the previous year, they are 13% lower. Unfortunately, this trend is all over Europe. Among the actions proposed by Poland... We have proposed to allocate additional financial resources to support milk producers, to increase intervention prices for butter and milk powder, to step up efforts to acquire new markets outside the European Union and to apply subsidies, export subsidies to third markets, to take intensive action to abolish the Russian embargo at European Union level, and, as you mentioned, we have taken action on the possibility of redemption, the abolition of penalties, the fees for exceeding milk quotas in the last quota year, 2014/2015. At present, this possibility of amending legislation at European Union level has been rejected. We request the possibility of introducing a special programme for Poland, allowing individual redemption of these fees for individual farmers in difficulty. Depending on whether the European Commission agrees to such a mechanism, we would like to apply this mechanism and seek to agree to it. The situation in which prices for milk in Poland are lower than on average in the European Union is also due to the lack of regulation on the supply chain of food products, which in Poland has not been regulated by the previous government. This case was not raised or tried to be regulated by law. This has been tried in terms of voluntary, good commercial practices, but without success. That is why we are also taking action on regulation and statutory and voluntary relations between the farmer, the agri-food processor and trade, because in the assessment not only of the Polish government, but also of the European Commission, action in this respect is insufficient. Unfortunately, we consider the European Commission's proposals insufficient, because the European Commission does not want to take much of these measures - especially those which would require EU funds to help farmers, as Poland is asking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The actions proposed by the Commission shall be limited to actions financed by national budgets or to actions which do not require financial input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u29	Thank you, Minister. I ask Barbara Chrobak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What measures does the Minister of Agriculture intend to take to address the following problem? At present, farmers returning milk to dairy farms do not know what price they will receive for their products. The milk price to be paid to dairy farmers in May will not be paid until mid-June. Farmers have no impact on this price, are fully dependent on the decisions of the dairy industry and are incapacitated. Surely you will agree that this is not conducive to any activity and can lead to the bankruptcy of many Polish farms. Currently, milk prices, as you mentioned, are falling sharply from month to month, which threatens the functioning of thousands of Polish families living from cattle farming. I ask for a clear and clear answer from the Minister: Do you think that Polish farmers are entitled to milk subsidies? What are you going to do to make this happen? And eventually, when will milk subsidies be resolved? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I also ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u31	Thank you very much. I ask you, Minister Jack Bogucki, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already mentioned, with regard to milk prices, we want to regulate the relations between the farmer, the buyer and trade, because in the assessment of the Polish government, and also in the assessment carried out on behalf of the European Commission, Poland is the largest of the six countries of the European Union, which have not yet regulated relations in this area, is a country which has not tried to regulate them at all. Everyone in the European Union is having problems with this because, in general, agri-food trade and processing is costing farmers their deconstructive costs. Unfortunately, Poland has not taken any action in this regard. In May, the draft law in this area will be consulted. As far as milk prices are concerned, it must also be borne in mind that in Poland, farmers' cooperatives, dairy cooperatives are mainly involved in buying milk. Here too farmers should have an impact on how these prices are shaped. I'm gonna give you some extreme cases from the last period. The price of buying milk in Polish buyers ranges from sixty-six cents to one gold-forty-seven cents. So these differences are over two times. This depends on the policy adopted by the purchaser, which also depends on his economic potential, on his position on the market. [[And what is the cost of producing 1 l of milk?]] Well, unfortunately, the cost of producing 1 l of milk is estimated at PLN 1.1 - PLN 1.2. Therefore, in the case of good purchasers, payment is at or above the cost of production, but there are establishments which pay significantly less than that cost. As far as milk subsidies are concerned, this aid, which was to be paid to Poland last year, increased at the turn of last year and this year by an amount of PLN 128 million from the national budget, and these funds will be paid to farmers by the end of June. Unfortunately, this aid will be small, which is why we are proposing to mobilise another tranche of aid from the EU budget. Several European countries have already supported the Polish proposal on this issue. Unfortunately, we have not yet been able to convince most of the European Union, but we are working, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we are talking to all the countries of the European Union to launch another form of aid. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question four. They are asked by MEPs: Marta Golbik, Monika Rosa, Barbara Dolniak, Mirosław Suchoń, Paweł Kobyliński, Grzegorz Furgo. This question about the possibility of making changes in the Statute of the Oncology Centre aimed at providing all institutions: Warsaw, Gliwice and Krakow, financial autonomy is addressed to the Minister of Health. The question is asked by Mrs Marta Golbik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u34	Dear Minister, There is a very important debate in Silesia about the future of the Oncology Centre. The current processes of bilateral financial and ownership settlements between the Centre for Oncology in Warsaw and its subsidiaries raise concern. The Gliwice branch supports indebted hospitals in Cracow and Warsaw, and the scale of this support has already exceeded almost PLN 82 million in recent years. Such a situation in a completely natural way causes an uproar which led to the launch of measures to self-emancipate the Gliwice hospital. Many regional environments have been involved in this process, including Members of all policy options and most importantly citizens. 15,000 were collected. signatures under appeal for the self-emancipation of the Gliwice Institute and the establishment of the Silesian oncology centre. I regretted the decision to revoke the position of director of the Gliwice Institute due to the involvement of the professor in the efforts to normalize the financial situation. During his recent stay in Silesia, the Minister expressed his opposition to the proposal to set up an independent institute in Gliwice. At the same time, at the same meeting, you assured me that no zloty from Gliwice would go to the extension of the facilities in Warsaw and Krakow, and more precisely, you ruled out the possibility of transferring the savings created in one centre to cover the deficit created in another. There is therefore a question that I would like to ask the Minister. How the Ministry of Health intends to secure the construction of the budget of the Institute of Oncology in Gliwice, so that the surplus generated by this entity is managed by its management itself and serves the sick, e.g. through specific investments in equipment? It is already clear today that changes will be necessary in the statutes, in the organisation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What exactly will be the provisions in the Statute relating to this issue, and when exactly can appropriate proposals be expected to be presented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u35	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Mr Jarosław Pinkas to respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for asking this important question. Indeed, in Silesia there is some concern about the future of the Institute of Oncology in Gliwice, a branch of the Centre for Oncology, because, as you know, it consists of three branches: Krakow, Gliwice and Warsaw. A few months ago, major changes took place. The Institute of Oncology is managed by a new manager, one of the professors, recognized professors. At the moment, he is implementing a recovery plan for the entire institute. I would like to say to you that the health department has explicitly requested that the new director conduct such a financial economy and carry out such reforms at the Oncology Centre so that no funds generated by its branches are transferred to other branches in order to provide them. So that all the savings that will be made in the branches are to be used there. An appropriate financial economy is to be carried out there, as well as the possibility of purchasing equipment, or possibly the possibility of making savings available for wage increases for workers. We do not foresee a change to the Institute's statute at the moment. Individuals do not have legal personality, but - because we have the assurance of the directorate we strongly believe that the concerns that arose especially in Silesia will be resolved and the situation will be completely clear. At the same time, we obliged the Institute's Director to conduct a clear and very uniform policy with the departments on the coordination of scientific projects. The Institute has a chance to become a state research institute in the near future, which will significantly change its functions because it will carry out tasks of national scope. I would also like to ask you to familiarize yourself with the position of Director of the Institute of Oncology, which was published on the website of the Institute on 29 April 2016, which is relatively recent. All these things I have said are contained in the material that is published on the website approved by Minister Radziwiłł. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u37	Thank you very much. Please ask for an additional question. Mr Furgo, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u38	Minister, but you haven't answered our question about the reasons why you dismissed the head of Gliwice oncology.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u39	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen! The Director of the Institute shall have significant independence. He is to conduct HR policy, including in relation to his troops. The Minister of Health is unable to answer this question because he does not interfere with the personnel policy of the institutions that he exclusively supervises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u41	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Krzysztof Ostrowski and Grzegorz Schreiber, from the Law and Justice Club, on the decommercialisation of health services - to the Minister of Health. I ask Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law on medicinal activities, which entered into force on 1 July 2011, enabled the direct transformation of SPOZs into capital commercial companies, i.e. companies from the o.o. or share companies, i.e. de facto commercialisation of hospitals. The solutions contained in the Act did not impose a statutory obligation on local governments to commercialise hospitals, but in fact introduced them to do so so so that I could do so. He called it economic compulsion. Now data from the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, 2006 and 2010. The commercialisation of most hospitals did not have the desired effect, i.e. The queues of patients did not decrease, the total debt of hospitals remained at a similar level, did not decrease. All those hospitals that were in debt before commercialization were again in debt after commercialisation, and those that had positive financial results before commercialization still reach them after commercialisation. Data from the audit of the Council of Ministers, from Minister Radziwiłł's speech yesterday. Briefly. Minister: the debt of public hospitals in the health sector - PLN 14 billion, of which 3 billion is due. The commercialisation plan did not actually work, often leads directly to privatisation and causes a dangerous segregation of patients on those whose hospitals are worth treating, and on those who are not profitable. Now the question to the Minister of Health: When will the Act on the Recommercialisation of Health Services be ready and what legal solutions will be proposed? It is expected by both health professionals, Minister and patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u43	Thank you. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the Ministry of Health a draft law on amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws was prepared. It was referred to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers for consideration. One of the proposed changes is the introduction of restrictions on the disposal of private parties' shares or shares of medicinal entities in the form of capital companies created and operated by a local government unit or State Treasury. A public entity and, respectively, a local government unit or State Treasury could dispose of shares or shares of their companies, provided that the nominal value of their shares or shares is not less than 51% the share capital of the company. This solution will prevent the transfer of shares or shares of capital companies of the Treasury or units of local government carrying out medical activities. Having a majority stake or shares will give public entities a decisive influence on the functioning of medicinal products, which is necessary for the performance of the tasks of health security, quality and availability of health services under Article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. A company carrying out a medical activity shall not be created to benefit from the ownership of its shares or shares by selling them, but to provide the necessary health benefits. The measures taken prior to the entry into force of the proposed law aimed at the disposal of shares or shares of companies of the State Treasury and local government units will be subject to the existing provisions and therefore the proposed law is without prejudice to the so-called law. the interest in progress and therefore does not confer on the right of ownership under Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The other changes proposed by the Act are, in turn, a change in the procedure in the event of a net loss, i.e. a negative financial result of an independent public health institution, and a waiver of the option to convert SPOZ into a capital company in such a situation; the introduction of the principle of non-payment of dividends in capital companies in which the State Treasury, local government unit or medical university hold more than 50% shares or shares; strengthening the supervisory tools of the entity constituting its independent public health care facility; introducing the possibility of financing health benefits by local authorities units; resignation from the obligation to have medical accident insurance; allowing the possibility to transfer obligations and powers of the entity constituting the SPOZ; allowing the possibility to create new SPOZs; clarifying the rules on the supervision of medicinal entities; amending the provision on the management of SPOZ assets; extending the period to cover net loss by the entity which is currently established by the Act, up to 9 months from the expiry of the deadline for the approval of the financial statement; regulating the rules of cooperation of medicinal entities with the Police in the context of the search for missing persons; replacing the obligation to submit to the authority carrying out the records of health professionals issued by the State Sanitary Inspection Authority and insurance policies with the applicant's declaration of compliance with the requirements for premises and equipment and the conclusion of a contract of civil liability insurance; exempting the managers of medicinal entities from the obligation to provide the State Labour Inspection and the competent authorities of health professions with information on the basis of a medical profession or as a professional practice with which a medical agency has concluded the obligation to provide that the natural person with the natural agency to carry out of business. replacement of the term "medical establishment' and the term "negative financial result' with the term "net loss'. The project was preceded by a draft plan for the draft law amending the law on medicinal activities, which was the subject of public consultation and consultation, after which work on it was discontinued in connection with obtaining the approval of the Government's work programming team to prepare and process the draft law. The opinion and public consultation of the project ended on 4 May and on 11 May the project was adopted by the College of the Minister of Health and submitted to the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers for consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I give the floor to ask you a second question, I would like to say that our deliberations are being listened to today by young people from Piszczac Junior High School, the district of Biała Podlaska. We wish them a pleasant stay in the Seym. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Konstanty Radziwiłł, Minister of Health, announced that he would aim to build a network of responsibilities - as he called it: a network of responsibilities - in which public hospitals will first be located. I think that this is in line with the general idea of the Ministry to depart from the profit criterion as the most important criterion for assessing the hospital's activities. However, if the Minister could give us an insight into the concept of a network of responsibilities, I would like to hear it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u47	Thank you very much. The question is answered by Minister Marek Tombarkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes I have just presented in the provisions of the Act on Medicinal Activities, namely really decommercialising and replacing a purely business approach in the functioning of health care units with non-profit activities, i.e. not for profit, is the main assumption underlying the next changes planned by our resort, i.e. the creation of a wide network of safe entities mainly public, but I do not rule out of course the operation in this system of non-public units, which will ensure the security of the whole society. The rules for setting up this network, operating rules, requirements for individual medicinal facilities, the need for appropriate branches or the entire facilities will only be discussed extensively with us in the Ministry. For the time being, we are creating aggregates, and the basis for this is the change in the approach to the operation of individuals, so the change to the operation of non-profit, i.e. all individuals must work to ensure the best access to health benefits, not to profit-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the sixth question. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Konwiński and Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, the Civic Platform Club, on the granting of a grant from the state budget of PLN 16 million to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret that Minister Radziwiłł is not in the Chamber, because the question concerns strictly his and his activities in connection with the financing of the medical self-government. The Minister of Health has decided to abolish in vitro funding. The program ends in July. At the same time, he decided to increase the funding of family doctors by abolishing incentive factors and increasing payment rates for all doctors, regardless of how, how much and what tests they perform. At the same time, the Minister decided to increase the co-financing for the medical self-government several times. The question arises: Does the Minister treat other local authorities equally, such as nurses, physiotherapists, rescuers, diagnostics? Is he even in favour of these self-governments functioning? Additional questions also arise. Why is this happening? I quote from the weekly Newsweek, President of the General Medical Council, Mr. Hamankiewicz, according to this weekly the following words: The architect is coming with his husband, the Minister of Health, and they arrange chairs and watch him physically put it in this small room. Between 2:00 and 3:00 a.m., the minister and his wife set up these chairs for us in a small room. Ha, ha, ha. The questions arise: When, and with whom did the Minister determine that the repair at the General Medical Council will be carried out by the minister's brother-in-law's company, as the weekly says? How many orders has the Minister's family previously carried out for the medical council or the General Medical Council? The question also arises: Isn't there a conflict of interest in all of this and isn't there a violation of the Code of Medical Ethics when the President of the General Medical Council carries out this type of work with the family of the Minister of Health who grants the grant? And there's a key question: at the moment when the Minister of Health [[♪ The bell ♪]] asked the Prime Minister and the Government, and then the parliament to increase the grant to the medical government, informed its boss, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, about the same time that his brother-in-law's work was carried out at the Medical Council, at the General Medical Council, with the participation of his wife, as stated in the weekly.Newsweek?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u51	Thank you very much, sir. The question is answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mr Marek Tombarkiewicz. Once again, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 2 December 2009 on Medical Chambers of Chambers of Medicine, including the General Medical Chamber and the District Medical Chambers, shall receive from the budget of the State from the part of which the Minister responsible for Health is responsible financial resources to cover the costs of administrative activities relating to the performance of the following tasks. These are: the granting of a right to pursue a profession; the keeping of records of doctors, the register of medical practitioners in the field of medical practices under the rules laid down in the legislation on medical activities, the registers of post-graduate practitioners and the registers of doctors temporarily and occasionally engaged in the profession; the conduct of proceedings concerning the professional responsibility of doctors; the conduct of proceedings concerning incapacity to pursue the profession of doctor or insufficient preparation for the pursuit of the profession. Financial resources referred to in the above mentioned above. the laws on medical chambers shall be transmitted on the basis of contracts concluded between the Minister for Health and the District Medical Chambers and the General Medical Chamber. In the agreements of those chambers, they undertake to carry out specific tasks, while the Minister of Health undertakes to transfer funds of a certain amount to carry out those tasks. The two objectives were taken into account when setting the amount of the grants to the medical self-government provided for in the 2016 budget. The first is to implement the amount of the grant for the current year in such a way as to comply with the statutory obligation to refund to the local government the costs of carrying out tasks taken over from the state administration. The implementation of this objective is aimed at increasing the amount of grants for all, chief and 23 district doctors, to the amount of 6462 thousand. zł. The second objective is to close legal disputes with individual medical chambers for late payment of the costs of tasks carried out by local authorities in the years 2005 to 2015. It should be stressed that the grant for medical authorities, starting in 2004, remained virtually unchanged despite the increasing number of cases they dealt with. Since 2004, funds for grants to the medical self-government have increased from PLN 2 399 400 to PLN 2463 thousand. PLN in 2015, that is about 2,26% At the same time, the number of registered doctors and dentists increased significantly from 150 596 to 177 094 persons, i.e. it grew by 17.6% in these years Also the number of cases dealt with by medical authorities, e.g. by medical courts, increased more than twice - from 298 to 778 per year, i.e. 161% compared to 2004. As a result of the situation, the unit rates for the financing of the tasks imposed by the Law on a medical corporation, despite the increasing costs incurred by the medical institutions, were actually reduced annually. The difference between the amount of grants to the medical self-government provided for in the budget and the amounts resulting from the reports of the medical chambers exceeds about PLN 8 million per year. In the 2014 budget, the amount for grants amounted to 2463 thousand and the amount shown by the medical institutions in the annual reports amounted to more than 12 million PLN. As a result, the medical authority has been required, from 2007, to pay the funds equivalent to the actual costs incurred for carrying out the tasks, plus interest due and judicial costs. Between 2011 and 2015, the Ministry of Health received requests for a settlement test for a total amount of 23,522 thousand. PLN and has been brought before the courts of the medical chambers for various years and different chambers for a total amount of 5950 000. zł. Analysis of final judgments in cases in which chambers claimed damages under the provisions of the Civil Code, i.e. Article 2 417 § 1 of the Civil Code indicated that the courts, in principle, considered all expenditure actually incurred by the local government and having regard to the implementation of statutory tasks as justified. In the courts there was a uniform view that the amount of the grant to the medical self-government should be calculated in such a way as to cover the costs actually incurred by the local government and shown in the reports submitted to the health department. At the same time, it should be noted that the calculations of the Supreme Medical Chamber show that the total debt of the Minister of Health to the Supreme Medical Chamber for the years 2007 to 2015 amounted to PLN 8 014 229 and, in the face of 23 district medical chambers - to PLN 50 162 677. As a result of long and difficult negotiations carried out at the Ministry of Health, the Chief Medical Chamber and 23 District Medical Chambers agreed to waive court proceedings in exchange for a single transfer of PLN 10 million, of which PLN 1 229 748 would fall to the Chief Medical Chamber and the remaining amount, i.e. PLN 8 770 252 - to the District Chambers. Thus, the Chambers waived any claim they could bring against the State Treasury's health minister represented for the tasks performed in 2005 and 2015. As far as the functioning of other local authorities is concerned, and we are only talking about the nursing authorities at present, the amount of the grant is discussed and negotiated annually with the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics. Part of this amount [[♪ The bell ♪]] is increased annually by the so-called. over-executions in the trials or proceedings which are being conducted by the chief chambers of nurses and midwives in cases directed against members of the nursing authority. This year this amount is at the same level as last year. On the other hand, none of the nurses' and midwives' chambers applied for judicial proceedings against the Ministry of Health for an increase in that amount or payment for judicial judgments, as such judgments are simply not yet available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Zbigniew Konwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not about you filling us with statistics and historical information, what it was like to finance medical chambers over the years, it is about the simple question we have asked about the intention of bringing this point in the context of current questions: What are the actions that the President of the Council of Ministers is going to take or has already taken in relation to the information he has provided about how public funds are spent? Yesterday for several hours The state has been killing us with something you called an audit. It was a simple beletristics not supported by any documents, but here we have concrete: an increased grant for the Chief Medical Chamber and at the same time the minister's brother-in-law benefits from this grant. If you don't see any ambiguity here, then I can only feel sorry for you because yesterday you cleared for a dozen hours, but it is you who should be accounted for, all points to it. Therefore, we ask again: What actions did she take? Or is he going to take the President of the Council of Ministers in connection with information about the increased grant to the Chief Medical Chamber and at the same time about obtaining an order from the Chief Medical Chamber by a company owned by the brother-in-law of the Minister of Health? We believe that the situation is ambiguous and should be addressed by the President of the Council of Ministers. We have made a proper notification to the Central Anti-corruption Office on this matter, and we have also notified the Supreme Audit Chamber. The company that received the contract, whose owner - I will say again - is the health minister's brother-in-law, has been ordered to repair, and has entered in the KRS to pour straw, and she is to do repairs on behalf of the Chief Medical Chamber. We believe that the situation is ambiguous and that you should take decisive action on this matter if you are not familiar with really high standards in public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u55	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Mark Tombarkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u56	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you that the local government itself, as the name suggests, rules itself and can itself sign agreements with any entity with which it considers appropriate. It is a matter of the functioning of the local government. The government functions not only thanks to subsidies from the Ministry of Health, but also thanks to contributions from all members of the medical chambers. This contribution currently amounts to PLN 40 per month. May I remind you that the members of the E.R. are... [[60 PLN.]] Perhaps she was raised at that time. [[Yeah, at the time. Perhaps it wasn't enough for the expenses.]] This, of course, is the opinion of the Member, perhaps not enough. As I said, it is a local government, which is itself responsible for the way it works. Questions based on the reports of the weekly Newsweek should be addressed to the President of the Chief Medical Chamber, who issued a statement on the value of the grant. This is a very responsible procedure on the part of the local government, because it agreed on an amount of about 1/6, it can be said that the claims are waived against the State Treasury, i.e. it is a very responsible public spending. On the other hand, I do not have the authority to speak on behalf of the Prime Minister on both the media reports and the complaint against the constitutional minister. This is the power of the Prime Minister and the appropriate mechanisms that result from the way in which he is acting, giving the opportunity for the Prime Minister to speak on this issue. I firmly want to ensure that the functioning of the health department is based on responsible and transparent public spending. Similarly, it seems to us that the medical authority operates, as it has just proved by the willingness to settle for about 1/6 claims with the Minister of Health, i.e. for 10 million we could avoid legal claims for about 60 million, including the costs of these legal proceedings and interest. [[Minister, you speak for the Prime Minister. What actions did the Prime Minister take?]] Mr President, I speak on behalf of the health department. The question was addressed to the Prime Minister. I have no authority to answer such specific questions. I answered in detail and detail not to be accused of beletrytics. We have given very precise calculations of where these amounts came from, and it seems to me that this is a very specific answer to the questions asked. On the other hand, only the Prime Minister of the Government can answer questions about the functioning or the charge against the Constitutional Minister and you are well aware of the possibility of obtaining such an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u57	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The next question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska and Mr Jarosław Szlachetka, the Law and Justice Club, on whether the audit of opening in the Ministry also covers changes introduced over the last years by the PO-PSL coalition in Poczta Polska SA, addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Please, the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kopcińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u58	Thank you, Marshal. According to information provided by representatives of the Polish Post, by trade unionists on parliamentary duty many, according to their opinion, struck ordinary employees with regulations. Is it true that a large number of mail workers were released in 2013 and 2015? If so, on what scale? How many employees does Poczta Polska employ? Are there any further redundancies planned? Does the current number of employees, in the opinion of the Ministry, allow proper customer service, the execution of postal tasks and ensures the company's competitiveness on the Polish market? Trade unionists have also pointed out serious problems with the IT system. Many system failures are reported. There is no liquidity in solving problems. Therefore, I ask for information about the costs of the order and the implementation of the system I mentioned, the number of errors reported quarterly, the costs of operating the system and what are the costs of solving the problems I mentioned if they actually occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u59	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u60	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! The audit was also carried out or the audit was also related to the Polish Post. The Polish Post Office has undergone quite large restructuring changes in recent years. They were largely based on the fact that they had been liquidated, more frequently changed the way postal offices function through the liquidation of these offices and the creation of their subsidiaries, or were transferred to them in the form of agencies, which led to the fact that the services offered at the lowest level were significantly reduced. It was often also related to employee departures. Restructuring was carried out, among others. under the so-called The voluntary programme will go away. Between 2012 and 2015 there were six editions of this program. In total, 12,562 employees left under this scheme, 12,014 jobs. Employment in the company decreased by 14 483 employees in 2013 and 2015. This represents a 15.4% reduction in general status across the company. In each group this was as follows: in the management it was more than 20%, in sales and coordination - 11% , in the so-called. Back of the operational office was 17%. In the functional group, these are post offices - 16%. Together, it was 14 483 employees. On the other hand, under the PDO, i.e. the voluntary scheme, at that time the employment was reduced by 12,014 jobs. The employment rate for 30 April 2016 in Poczta Polska amounted to 74 429.08 staff, i.e. 77 319 people. According to the information we received, the Polish Post is planning exemptions, but only in the scope of so-called. Broadly understood administration, since it has been precisely in recent years that this administration has actually been reduced, but in the past few years there has been no reduction in employment in the administration. However, in the areas of operation and functionality there were reductions in employment and they caused that in the so-called. Broadly understood operation of mail has partially lost its ability to compete freely in the market in which it operates, particularly as regards the market advantage that mail has, by reducing employment among those workers who should de facto work. The voluntary programme will change so that people who are needed at the post office do not go away, but those who actually cause hyperplasia. This largely concerns the headquarters, where there are huge surpluses, especially in the executive administration, where hundreds of executive posts were created, which had not existed before. I'm not talking about the amount of wages that were definitely raised. The remuneration of management staff, the management board increased several times and amounted to a total of over PLN 7 million per year. These are in the case of a State Treasury company, which provides a kind of public service, extraordinary remuneration. I can't talk about individual salaries here because they're covered by a secret. The contracts have been made. On the other hand, many Polish Post employees in the last period, when the government changed, were earning less than PLN 1900. There have already been two increases. These salaries have been significantly increased, i.e. maybe not definitely, because there hasn't been any raises in six years, so now there's a lot of pressure on raising wages. The first increase - made in February - made the lowest remuneration of the employees amounted to PLN 1900 gross. The second increase - made in March - caused the lowest salary in the post office to be PLN 2050. We are aware that the Post Office and Ministry are well aware that these are still too low wages. If there are definitely several hundred higher wages in the stores, the post office loses its competitiveness in terms of employment. Further wage increases are planned, but they must result from an increase in revenue and from further savings that will be introduced, especially in the administration, and from improved postal operations. We know that there is a lot of pressure, it is impossible to make up for six-year negligence in terms of salary increases in a few months, because for six years or a zloty, the salary of operating workers did not increase, while in the case of executives they increased several dozens, if not a few hundred percent, and this is the huge problem facing Poland Post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Jarosław Nobletka to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! With regard to the issues raised by the Member, I would like to say that the changes made over the last few years have also imposed additional obligations on the reduced number of workers. Please indicate on the basis of which contracts service providers and employees are obliged to comply with sales limits e.g. banking, insurance, food and press services. I would also like information on the motives for changing the identification of Polish Post and the costs incurred by the State Treasury to the new logo and visual identification system and please indicate the cost of implementing this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u63	Thank you very much. The question is answered by Minister Kazimierz Smolinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! The staff carrying out these additional activities shall have additional orders for these activities. At the moment, work is underway so that, as I say, it will lead to a situation where a uniform system of employment for employees is to be created so that those activities which they carry out at work concern only employers. If the employer is a post office, it will be the wages paid by the post office, while if the activities are carried out for the bank or insurer, they should be separate contracts concluded with these entities, here: companies from the Post Polska Group, so that it can be clearly, easier to determine both the costs and the working time allocated to the various activities performed in the course of the work. At the moment, work is underway on the board to make a change. The costs for changing the logotype of Polish Post have not yet been estimated, because they have been quite cleverly veiled. I think that we will already have this information in the coming days, and then I will give you written information in this regard. The first information shows that these costs were very high, reaching millions of zlotys. We have to collect it so to say, from various sources, because it's been enough, so to speak, cleverly disguised, so that it can't be easy and easy to determine these costs. Undoubtedly, Poland's Post should return to some old solutions related to uniforming. Nor do I exclude, because the post office is a national operator, the return to the eagle as a certain symbol of state authority, maybe we should go back to it, as it used to be at the post office and on the railroad. You've pulled out of this, and I think it's worth going back to, uh, uniforms, too. Some of these uniforms, both in the post office and on the railroad, have been withdrawn. I think, therefore, that especially the post office, which is a national operator, designated, should represent the Polish state also externally in the form of uniforming and marking this uniform with an eagle. I will provide you with detailed information in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you.]] Let's move on to the next question. The question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki and Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club, on the refusal by the Polish Post to carry out the order to distribute information about the march.We are and will be organized in Europe on 7 May. in Warsaw. Question to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Andrzej Halicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Besides, it's a good thing that these two topics are after each other, because, as you say, six years, I hope you're judging well these last year and a half, because this is the direction of thinking that you just said. Except I'm gonna have to straighten out what the Minister said, if I may. In the last year, management costs have dropped, you know that very well. Moreover, the management has decreased and this rationalisation has also taken place. Moreover, the voluntary programme was suspended practically with our arrival or my arrival. We worked in this resort with Minister Grabce, but it was my responsibility. I'm talking about it because even unionists think it's that way. In short, thanks to the new status, also to the operator appointed just post has a chance to develop and very quickly make up for some lost time, lost by the competition, which was quite aggressive and - I have to say this and we will probably have a common opinion, but already for another debate - sometimes strange. And I'm saying this because your government today is one of the very active players in this competition and action, I would say, anti-postal. He's the vice minister. So it seems to me that with this consequence of defending the Polish Post as a very important subject, the largest Polish employer, it is also worth to be consistent here. That's by the way. The question of censorship. Why is censorship coming back? Well, in my day, it would be impossible for me to make a recommendation. Or someone would have guessed a recommendation like that. Law and Justice could not distribute their flyers during the election campaign. That would be absurd. On April 27th, many days before the march, Poland Post not only signed the contract, but accepted the money on order, which was to be executed in 3 working days, i.e., in short, at the beginning of May, for the distribution of leaflets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, I do not need to inform the Minister that I know that after that time commercial orders were also accepted for a shorter period of time. Who gave such a decision or recommendation, or was there such a recommendation to refuse the order already paid, after issuing an invoice, for political reasons?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u67	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Minister Kazimierz Smolinski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Minister! The first thing is a corrigendum. The Polish Post did not conclude an agreement with the Civic Platform of the Republic of Poland. There was no contract, an advance was paid and an invoice pro forma was issued, while the contract was not concluded. [[The entire amount has been transferred.]] The information we received as a ministry was only from the question of you or your fellow Members. We, as the Ministry, did not know that any conversations were being held and that some shipments were to be delivered. I can't imagine any interference or command from the Ministry in the field of commercial mail. So here we have absolutely no conversations or information at all. On the other hand, the information that I received after the question which Members, the Minister, asked, showed that it was only on 28 April that it was supposed to be a consignment in the so-called. D+4 system, not D+7, as originally... Minister, I am providing information that I received from the Polish Post Office, that it was initially treated as a standard delivery, D+7, 7 days from the date of conclusion of the contract, and at the last moment, on 28 April, the Management Board established that the materials were to be delivered on 29 April and with option D+4, within 4 days. Due to the fact that it existed - I present once again the information of the Management Board of Polish Post - the threat that this shipment may not be carried out because we have free days and at the same time there was a social problem in the form of a cessation of work by a large part of the postmen in connection with the use of so-called. on-demand leave, and this was related to the remuneration of employees, the Management Board considered that it was better at that time to refuse the implementation of this agreement than to accept the agreement and not to implement it. Minister, imagine if the Polish Post had accepted this order and failed to carry it out, it would have been so-called here. The scandal, the huge grudges, and I think it's the right thing to do. So in this situation, you've been informed that the post office can't do it. You could have ordered it commercially, and you ordered it. [[We made it.]] For all we know, you wrote that you ordered it and the shipments were delivered, but if the mail were irresponsiblely accepted on these days off, when many workers were also taking a leave of absence, which, especially in the case of on-demand leave, the employer has no influence... The answer is that the post office did not accept this order in a responsible manner. But did she take other orders at that time? Probably so, but did they also cover over 800,000. I can't answer that. I can't imagine that - and the Minister said so - there might be any political intervention here. I learned about this case - and the Ministry - only from the question that the Minister has made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u69	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is worth clarifying certain facts. The contract was actually concluded, in a way characteristic of the conclusion of contracts with the Polish Post. An order has been issued, the order has been accepted, the invoice has been issued and this invoice has been paid. [[All of it.]] In this way contracts are concluded with the Polish Post for the delivery of unaddressed prints. We paid the entire salary for the performance of this benefit. Moreover, the postal staff reported that it was possible to deliver these unaddressed prints in 3 days rather than 4 days, according to the D+4 order planner. This is not a special mode. He is special only in the sense that the ordering party pays more for delivery of shipments in 4 days than in 7 working days. The Polish Post was ready to carry out this task, but after the intervention of the board, as we hear from your statements, Minister, the execution of this order has been stopped. What is the nature of the decision of the board? Who on the board made that decision? On what grounds? And do you not ridicule the Polish Post, claiming that such a large company is not able to deliver orders [[♪ The bell ♪]] $100,000. within the time limit for private companies to do so? In this way you ridicule and undermine the Polish Post brand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u71	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. Minister Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I repeat, the deal has not been concluded. The fact that an advance has been paid... [[The whole amount.]] ... doesn't mean there's been a conclusion. The agreement was to be concluded, but it was not concluded, so the agreement was not concluded. According to the information we have, the charge concerned the standard deadline of just 7 days, so here is also a discrepancy. On the other hand I did not say that there was any resolution of the board in this regard. I got the information from the board. On the other hand, as far as I know, there is no resolution of the Management Board in this regard, there were no orders from the Management Board. How was it technically? It's hard to tell right now. There is no document where there would be any correspondence that please do not accept such a consignment or such an order for execution. There's no document like that. There have been discussions with you from the Office of the National Civic Platform, with Mrs.Joanna Kurek, as far as we know, and it was at such an operational level, it was absolutely not about the board of directors, nor did any of the party authorities talk about it, nor did anyone from the post office talk about it. This is a fairly standard order and was treated as standard. But at what point was the answer, so to speak, not accepting the order? On 28 April, it came to light that the Civic Platform as our principal, according to the information we have, wanted it to be within D+4, the post office said that it was not able to do so in this respect. And that's the kind of knowledge I have as a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u73	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question 9. The question is asked by Ms Anita Czerwińska and Ms Katarzyna Czochar of the Law and Justice Club, about taking action to remove from the Police premises plaques and monuments commemorating UB and MO officers fighting against soldiers and anti-communist underground activists. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask the Minister, "Are there any measures taken to remove from the police premises plaques and monuments commemorating UB and MO officers fighting soldiers and anti-communist underground activists? An example of such commemoration is in Otwock. The 1974 plaque containing a list of 26 names, bearing a headline: In tribute to UB and MO officers who died in the struggle to consolidate the people's power with the armed reactionary underground, was copied and placed in a solemnly unveiled obelisk in front of the new police district command in 2005. The name of the officer who died on duty in 1993 was added. The headline has also been changed, which is now in tribute to the fallen in the service. However, according to the query, only two of 26 UB and MO officers were deprived of their lives by the Russians. The vast majority of the officers listed on the board are so-called militiamen. the operational company of MO Voivodeship Command of the Warsaw District, led by Mieczysław Moczar. I would also ask the question: Has the Ministry carried out or plans to analyze the presence of plaques and monuments commemorating the so-called "prosecution" in objects belonging to the Police. Folk power fixers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u75	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Anita Czerwinska and Catherine Czochara for this question. Thank you because putting this issue in the Sejm today will speed up further action on this matter, because it really is something completely incomprehensible - this is the softest term that can be used - that after more than 25 years of Poland, sovereign and independent, there will still be a glorification of communism, totalitarian system, anti-Polish system, which took away our independence for half a century and, as you can see, left its echo for a long time. I would like to say that, to a much wider extent than the question arises, action is being taken at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration at the moment, as well as at the Police, to break up the era. As you must know, we have already taken appropriate human resources policy decisions. We accepted such a criterion that by promoting officers in the Police to management functions, we do not include those who started their service in the PRL apparatus: in the SB, in the MO or in other formations. Finally, we give the junior officers a chance, although not so young anymore, because actually they all started in the 1990s, at the beginning, under the rules of the Police Act and today they already have pension rights. It's time to give them a chance to prove themselves. We are giving this opportunity in the new nominations we are making. That rule is valid. As far as symbolism is concerned, it is an expression of something much deeper. It is a question of attitudes, it is a question of values, and in this context we read it. Madam President, these actions which we are about to take, which I am about to say, whether we are already taking, will not only concern the removal of plaques and monuments from police premises - as it is written, this is stated in the question - commemorating UB and MO officers who are fighting against soldiers and anti-communist underground workers. It will be about removing all symbols of communism, in a broader sense, even if they do not concern the fight against underground soldiers. It is not allowed to glorify those formations which served Poland dependent on the Eastern Neighbor and, in fact, the Eastern Empire. So that all of these symbols will be removed. Of course, there may be some specific complications, as in the case that you have said, but all of this will be recognised and dealt with appropriately. I would like to say that in the sucursion on intent, we come to the direction of the bill which the Sejm adopted on 1 April 2016, on the prohibition of promoting communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices already addressed to the signature of the President. Unfortunately, it narrows the whole issue down a bit, because it concerns local authorities. I would like to remind you that there were two draft laws of law and justice, from 2007 and 2011, in which projects - unfortunately they were never adopted, because there were no political conditions for this - there was also a commitment for other institutions, not just for local governments. Unfortunately, that's not part of the bill. That's too bad, but we can do it. We can do it because there's no reason or legal order for such symbols to be on police premises at all. And, of course, they'll disappear. A few years ago, the police carried out this inventory, we have this list with us, but this is an inventory that requires, I would say, re-analysis and verification. We're gonna go through this very carefully. Police Chief has already sent a letter to the police officers under his command asking such places to be inventoryd and presented. Today I will issue a disposition on this issue, I would say a bit stronger, but going in the same direction. Well, by May 31st, this is also the case in this letter by your chief, as far as the deadline is concerned, we would like to have a verified list of all those places where these symbols are located in the ministry. This stronger disposition will be that we will not think so much about what names are placed there, because here it is as if such a distinction is proposed, only if it concerns the glorifyation of those communist formations or their officers, then of course such symbols will be removed. All these more difficult cases, such as the one that you said was a table of other content, then it was changed, something new was added, right, they would require a separate, individual approach. Of course, such cases must be analysed separately and analysed. What rules may disturb us here, and what provisions must we take into account? Probably the construction law, because some of these symbols, monuments in particular, can somehow be permanently related to these objects, then these regulations will have to be taken into account, as well as conservation regulations. But I think it's only in this case that there's a permanent connection, such as, I'd say, architecturally-building with these objects, that there might be some trouble, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it won't be impossible to get through. Of course, he will be overcome. Now, Marshal, I'm done. On the other hand, in principle, I firmly declare my will and this will, which will result in rapid action, so that this next step, which should have been taken long ago, 25 or 26 years ago, is now taken. And that's gonna work. Police chiefs will do it with conviction, because today's police chiefs didn't start service in those formations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to question 10. The question is asked by Beata Mazurek and Teresa Nołas, the Law and Justice Club, on the financial situation of CORA-TEX S.A., with its registered office in Krasnystaw and... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Can I still use the time available for an additional question because I have finished and I wanted to say something important and there is no additional question? Can I answer without asking?]] You're welcome, Minister. If it was important, you should have said so right away, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Excuse me, Marshal. Thank you for your understanding. I thought there'd be an extra question, that's usually the formula. If not, I will use this time briefly only for one piece of information, so that in this process I was talking about, one of the offices of the Police Headquarters, the Bureau of History and the Police Tradition will be very helpful. We created them in the rank of office, which is very important, which is written in the new organizational regulations. This office will take care of the issues of ethics, ethos and patriotism, references to tradition, the glorious tradition of the Polish Police. It will take care of the matter we are talking about in a comprehensive way. So that if we had predicted that, so to speak, this case too, by agreeing on a new police organizational regulation, because there is a tool that will serve it well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. We're back to question 10. I ask Mrs Beata Mazurek to ask a question. This is a question to the Minister of Treasury on the financial situation of CORA-TEX Clothing Industry Plants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u78	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! CORA-TEX plant in Krasnystaw is a plant with many years of tradition. The object of his activity is the production and sale of outer clothing. The company operates in conditions of high competition due to cheap products from China and the Far East, where production costs are much lower. Despite unfavorable conditions for more than 10 years, the company has managed to maintain on the market, mainly thanks to its experience, high quality products, recognised brands, large production potential, participation in domestic and foreign public tenders, and perhaps mainly due to the determination of the company's employees to maintain their jobs in a region with low industrialisation and high unemployment. Today CORA-TEX, I'll remind you, employs about 200 people. Unfortunately, the previous team was primarily trying to privatize the bet. The last time in January 2015 announced negotiations to acquire shares of the company in order to finally decide on 30 October 2015 to withdraw from the negotiations. At the same time, the following tasks were to be an alternative to improving the financial situation of the company: restructuring part of the liabilities vis-à-vis the largest creditors, i.e. ZUS, the tax office, the city office, using de minimis aid to improve financial liquidity, separate part of the building from the production and warehouse hall, then sell or lease it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: What is the financial condition of CORA-TEX today? Which of these remedial measures was possibly carried out? If they weren't made, why? What is the Ministry's strategy to improve the financial condition of CORA-TEX and, above all, what are its further development plans? Can employees who are currently employed in CORA-TEX be safe and calm about their establishment being operational, continue and they will not lose their jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u79	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Treasury, Minister Marek Zagórski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers, In fact, CORA-TEX is a company that has a long tradition, over 40 years old, and is a company that has been doing great on world markets for many years. It must be said that this is a company that has high competences, sewing clothes for the world's most famous brands such as Burberry and Sonia Rykiel, as well as for Polish brands such as Vistula, Wałbrzych and Bytom. He specializes in the production of outerwear, including mainly uniforms. One of the clients of CORA-TEX in recent years, the largest, was the Italian uniform service. So we have a company that has excellent traditions, a very good machinery park, a very good, qualified crew, as you said, with 200 people. At the same time, this company has been facing financial difficulties for years. Already in 2002, the company's restructuring programme for 2004-2006 had to be developed. It was then extended to 2007 and 2010. In the framework of this restructuring, aid of PLN 6.5 million was granted to the company, but this scheme was not effective and the company did not regain its permanent ability to compete on the market. The situation is still very difficult because the uncovered loss from previous years amounts to PLN 13 million, the equity capital is negative, and currently the company has liabilities vis-à-vis the state budget, which amounts to around PLN 3.5 million. In order to cover these liabilities, even though the liabilities to the city of Krasnystaw, the company had to transfer its property so as to pay only outstanding taxes on the property. We are dealing with an individual situation, but this is also an example of a wider phenomenon, when such companies were left to themselves in fact, without looking at what is happening to them, because the fact that they have public-law arrears causes the company not to participate in direct tenders. Therefore, all these global companies that use the services of CORA-TEX commission this company as subcontractors. Thus, the added value of such contracts, resulting from the acquisition of experience, from the promotion of the company brand, falls into completely different hands. Our objective with regard to CORA-TEX is generally to improve this situation. We believe that CORA-TEX can be a good, significant Polish clothing company, which will specialize, among others. I'm wearing uniforms. To this end, we decided that CORA-TEX, which last year in terms of sales, would have lost - that is what you asked - at the amount of 670 thousand, the loss for 2014 would be 1400 thousand, and this year for the first quarter would be 370 thousand... We decided to merge CORA-TEX with the Military Trade Company, which has experience in the trade in uniforms, also specializes in the packaging of military clothing, uniform and has contacts. We hope that as a result of the merger of these companies, as a result of the co-financing of WPH's activities, we will obtain an entity that will be able to compete on the Polish market, which will be able to pursue contracts, orders from Polish uniformed services. We have today, as I said, a good company that can sew - they use its services, for example. Italians - and some Polish uniforms buy or sew uniforms in China. We cannot tolerate such a situation. Therefore, we hope that by combining these companies we will increase sales revenue by 1/4 over a period of 5 years. In 2017, we will achieve a net profit for the merged companies. Profitability, which today is 2.6% for WPH , and in the case of CORA-TEX is negative, it should be close to 5% over the period of two to three years. First of all, what is important for us is that we will be able to exploit the production capacity, which is 82,000. outer clothing, or uniforms, a year. And it's already happening. The companies are already working together. The consolidation process is spread over time, but it has been undertaken Joint actions, joint contracts are implemented. I can therefore say that these 200 jobs will certainly be saved and the crew can be calm. And we hope that it will indeed be one of the most important players in this industry in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u82	Minister! Thank you so much for your answer. Yes, it is. Years of neglect speak for themselves, and this is the state we have today. The Minister's response is very satisfying, I think, not only for us, the Members of this region, but also for the workers' community. The target is very good. I think there's a purpose here, a decision is very good. I just have an extra question. Minister, we also welcome the fact that these jobs will be maintained. However, do you anticipate the development of this company so that additional jobs can be obtained? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u83	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Minister Marek Zagórski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u84	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mrs. Marshal! This stage, the consolidation process of these two companies is part of the broader consolidation process of textile, clothing companies owned by the State Treasury. In parallel, we are working on the consolidation of two more players. As the Ministry's management has not taken a final decision on this matter, I will not speak about it exactly. We assume that the next step will be to merge a total of four entities plus inclusion in order to increase the capital of shares in textile companies, where the Treasury has so-called. The remaining shares. At this last stage, we assume that there will be an extension of all activities and the need to operate a light-wear packaging plant. But before this merger occurs, this process that we are talking about, the consolidation of the Military Trade Company and CORA-TEX, we also assume that CORA-TEX's scope of activity will be extended to the design department. New machinery will therefore also be needed and therefore more employment will be needed. While this employment will be increased, I do not want to make such declarations today, because it depends on the boards of companies and on how the analyses will be carried out, but if our plans are implemented, which they assume - as I said - that the combined companies will be able to compete and apply for contracts of Polish uniform services and Polish companies, then there is a chance that employment will increase, but in the first stage, we will of course use those powers that are unused today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the last question. The question will be asked by Mr Jacek Kurzepa and Mrs Marzena Machalek of the Law and Justice Club on the Ministry's intentions to introduce programmes to combat violence among minors and additional training for teachers in this area. The question is addressed to the Minister of National Education. I ask Mr Jack Kurzepa to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you whether, in the Ministry's intention to introduce anti-aggression programmes among minors, you take into account two aspects that seem quite important, such as the change in attitudes of young people, which is a more well-established and fundamental change than only a reactive response to a certain preventive stimulus. The whole thing is therefore closed to a very important issue, namely the permanent change that we expect young people to show through preventive measures in their behaviour and attitudes. The second point is that, in the perspective of sociological analysis on sources of aggression and violence, evil does not form in an institution and educational institution, it is very often present in the environment. The question is therefore: Do these programmes also take into account a certain synergy of activities both in the facility and outside the facility? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Teresa Wargocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u88	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Members, The problem of violence and aggression at school is certainly a topic that needs to be looked at in a special way, analysed and, above all, preventive action must be taken in this area, but also measures that will allow the situation arising from the relationship between students and often between teachers and students to a level that can be called a safe school, a good school climate. You all know that the sources of aggression are very diverse. We can talk about school aggression and we can talk about school aggression. I'm sure the problem is diagnosed, examined. At the moment, two government programmes are in force and are being implemented, which concern school safety. One of them is the government program.Safe and friendly school for the years 2014 and 2016. The assumption of this programme is that it is implemented in 5 thousand. schools and educational establishments. Of course, there are also classes for teachers, parents, free training in improving educational competences and a very wide range of actions to combat aggression and violence. The second programme, which has only been implemented for a year, in principle since mid-2015, is the Safe +-programme, which also focuses on shaping attitudes, habits of safe behaviour and anti-aggressive behaviour. The question was whether there were intentions or whether there were plans to change prevention programmes to look at the issue of aggression at school differently. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is very complex, but I think that if we are talking about the problem of students' attitudes and behaviour, we should generally discuss not violence, not prevention of drug addiction, not prevention of other social improprieties, but we should really debate and talk about education at school, because it is what the Member has pointed out, i.e. not only providing information or indicating what behaviour is desirable and what is negative, but also the process of education in such a way as to allow children and young people to change their behaviour in this area. In order to achieve this goal, we need to realise that it is about creating such educational situations in order to strengthen the relationship between students and children. These are all kinds of activities, projects, trips. Mostly it is about getting to know each other first class students, in order to open up this environment of mutual relations to acceptance and mutual knowledge. It is very important that these young people, who have behavioral problems, involve in various social activities, encourage voluntary work. This is extremely important. What is very important in the prevention of those children and young people who have problems with socially expected behaviour is, first of all, one assumption, such a educational message for all teachers. In general, the source of very often aggression and violence are all these situations that make a young man underestimated, undervalued. This is very often due to the lack of family warmth, the interest of parents. So every child in school - I say: child, because this is a process that really needs to be started from an early age - must be able to survive success and feel important at school, not only because of very good grades, but also in various areas of action. Really, the possibility of each child in school feeling important has a very wide range of educational behaviors. Raising in school - of course this is a term that has many definitions. But, ladies and gentlemen, in such an interpersonal relationship, I would like to give my shortest definition of upbringing, which I will always say, recognize and implement: good upbringing is showing respect to another man, colleague, colleague, because of his dignity. This is the deep essence of upbringing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and a plane on which we can build positive relationships that will cause the phenomenon of aggression and violence at school to decrease.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mrs Marzena Machalek for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I welcome the fact that school programmes will be put in place to combat aggression among young people. Aggression is an element of violence, and I also believe - as a teacher and as a person who conducted preventive programs - that the best prevention is good family and good school. And a good family, a good school is one that can see and see those students who learn best and those who can't. I'm glad to see that kind of thing, because a student often wants to be the best at being the worst if he's not doing well. But, of course, the teacher and master are an important part of the educational work. And here's the question to the Minister: To what extent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in what aspects do you intend to strengthen the skills and competences of teachers and the competence to conduct good, effective, broad and narrowly understood prevention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u91	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Teresa Wargock to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u92	Ladies and gentlemen! To organise good support for teachers in developing their educational competences, this is the objective pursued by the programmes and funding already being implemented, and a range of competences and skills can be acquired under these programmes for free training. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that even the government programme quite well financed it is only 5 thousand. schools for several tens of thousands of schools, so really the needs in this area are enormous. As part of this debate, teachers report problems with just a small number of conferences, trainings, workshops on the development of educational skills. And this will be one of our proposals to take greater account of the topic that teachers point to in the offer of teacher improvement centres. With regard to educational competence, of course, the possibility of conducting these activities in the form of specific workshops, the acquisition of specific practical skills is extremely important, so that this course will certainly be taken into account in our activities. We also think, in fact, we have already commissioned the development of a two-semester post-graduate program for universities, but with the assumption that a large percentage of the post-graduate classes are classes that take place directly in schools, with young people, under the guidance of experienced teachers. So this is a post-graduate study trial where there will be extended knowledge of child development psychology, but also the possibility of conducting specific classes in schools, exercises, under the guidance of experienced educators. I think that all these actions will allow us to improve the competences of teachers in such a way that their actions will become increasingly effective. And in prevention, it's really very important to have an impact area in different environments. There are preventive programmes aimed at strengthening factors that eliminate risk factors in young people's behaviour. We would also like you to [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local authorities have tried to develop prevention programmes, you can say local ones that take into account the actions of parents, teachers, various NGOs and create a friendly climate around the child and, above all, create the conditions for the various forms of child activity that they naturally display and show in good action. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that the current session of the Sejm will consider the information on the implementation of the 500+ family programme, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Waldemar Andzel's applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Families are the most important social group on which the whole society is founded. The comprehensive support of Polish families and their security and stability has become one of the main tasks placed before the Government of Law and Justice. It was understood that Polish families expect concrete and rapid action on this issue. Therefore, already during the programme congress in February 2014, Law and Justice announced a family supplement in the form of 500 PLN for the second and the next child. The draft law implementing these benefits was presented during the election campaign in September 2015. The 500+ family law was adopted by the Sejm less than 3 months after the government was sworn in. This allowed the programme to enter into force on 1 April 2016. The most important task of the programme is to increase the sense of economic security of Polish families by supporting them in raising children. The money paid out will help parents to partially cover the costs of meeting their needs and raising a child. The aim of the programme is also to contribute to increasing fertility. Currently, the fertility rate in Poland is about 1.3 births per woman and, for comparison, in 1983 it was 2.42. This puts Poland currently in 216th place in 224 countries and dependent territories. Only big families are a chance to stop the demographic crisis. Undoubtedly, the 500+ family programme is also an opportunity to develop the country, because returning money can certainly boost the economy. The scheme provides for the payment of a benefit of PLN 500 for each second and subsequent own child, the spouse, appointed and under legal care until they are 18 years old. The witness can be received by parents, one parent, legal guardians and actual carers. The amount of the benefit was set at PLN 500 per child per month, with payment for: each second and subsequent child regardless of the income of the family; the first child, if the income per person does not exceed PLN 800; and for the first child, if the income per person does not exceed PLN 1200 and any child in the family is disabled. In total, approximately 3700 000 could be supported. Polish children. The possibility to submit applications in the municipality, via mail and via the Internet was created on the first day of operation of the programme, 1 April 2016. Applications have already been submitted by more than 2100 thousand. out of 2,700 thousand. entitled to provide parents and carers. Over 487,000. applications are submitted online. Most families have submitted applications as early as the first month of the programme's operation. More than 1650 thousand were deposited in the municipalities. applications, mostly in Mazowsze, Wielkopolska and Silesia. During the first month of operation of the government programme, the family of 500+. the decision and more than PLN 430 million were paid. Within a few weeks of the introduction of the benefit, I ask the Minister to provide detailed information on the programme. Surely we can say more about the implementation of payments by local governments, as well as about the efficiency and undoubtedly positive consequences of introducing this instrument of support for Polish families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u95	Thank you very much. Please respond to Mrs Elizabeth Rafalska, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The implementation of the 500+ family programme had three main objectives. The first target is a pronatistic target. The programme is expected to result in an increase of 278 000 births. These are the Ministry's own estimates based on the GUS forecast. It is planned that the fertility rate will increase from 1.29 to 1.6 in a 10-year period. Secondly, it's an investment in human capital. This second objective is linked to the idea of building a competitive society with knowledge and skills. And the third objective is to reduce poverty among the youngest. Our estimates show that as a result of the introduction of educational provision, poverty may fall by 3 percentage points, while the risk of poverty among children and young people will decrease from 23.3% to 11% by 17 years of age. None of the existing family policy tools were as effective as the government's proposed programme. Additional values of our program - Family 500+. We compete for people with the countries of the European Union. We know that in 32 countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area 21 pays universal benefits, and in Poland so far there has been no general benefit, which would be addressed to families. Our witnessing from the second child is a universal benefit. We are also talking about the positive economic impact of the programme. Experts point to the positive effect of the The public consultation on the 500+ family programme has been preceded by a wide, long month-long public consultation, which can be seen as regional public hearings at regional level. The management of the Ministry conducted a series of meetings in all voivodships in January. More than 2.2 thousand took part in the consultation. persons. How was the implementation of the programme implemented? After the President signed the Act, we immediately started implementing it in accordance with the agreed schedule of work, so, first, the transfer of funds for the implementation of the Act took place within a week of the publication of the Act in the Official Journal, and the Act was published on 17 February. The local authorities were given financial resources to implement it. Let me remind you that the commission for local governments is 2% in the first year of the law. in the following years it will be 1.5%. Secondly, implementing acts. On the second day after the publication of the Act, so on February 18th, implementing acts were signed. It couldn't have been done any faster. We also published textbooks for local governments. Specially for them, a manual was developed by the resort containing detailed explanations of the law, including information on assumptions, principles of income determination. We also conducted trainings for local governments. Two days after the President signed the bill, we started training for the community staff involved in the implementation of our programme. The employees of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy visited all the voivodships in which in cooperation with the services of the voivodship offices they trained local staff implementing our programme in the municipalities. In total, almost 3.8 thousand were trained. local staff. We estimate that the savings for local governments could amount to PLN 1.5 million. We know that training is currently taking place and the average cost for one participant is PLN 350. It's the phones. From March 1st in the Ministry, but not only in the Ministry, special contact numbers have been activated in all voivodship offices. They were used by parents, carers interested in benefits. Only in April, over 8,000 called the Ministry's hotline. persons. There are also websites. Detailed information is provided on these websites. The monitoring of the preparation of local authorities for implementation by the management took place on an ongoing basis. I and the vice-ministers took part before the start of the programme of visits to all voivodships, in the same voivodships in which the vice-ministers were at public hearings. The next point to help municipalities implement this programme is the extension of the application period and its examination. Applicants have 3 months to submit an application. They will then receive a level playing field, but also local authorities, due to the large number of applications they need to serve, have a three-month period for the decision. The next point is the launch of electronic application channels. We have provided for this possibility to introduce additional channels that have allowed these applications to be submitted online. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digitalization and with the participation of banks, in particular the PKO BP Bank and the Polish Bank Association, we have introduced a completely new solution that has allowed us to use this very convenient online route. Today we know that this channel, in particular using electronic banking, has benefited more than 500 thousand from this channel as of 10 May. 500,000 people have been paid. conclusions. Information was also carried out by voivodships. The special promotional action was carried out by the voivodship offices, the so-called. share of.Bus 500+. Specially marked cars visited individual municipalities, carried out an information campaign. And now, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, statistics. What is the status of the current data on May 10th? The proposals have already been submitted by 2.3 million people, including almost 1800 thousand. applications were submitted by traditional, paper, in offices, and 515 thousand. applications are applications submitted by electronic means, in particular using the electronic banking channel. As regards the number of applications already examined by the municipality, which has already been examined and the decision has already been issued, this is almost 1 million decisions as of 10 May. Of course, these data are liquid, please, because the number of decisions issued is increasing avalanchely. In addition, almost 1,200 000 have already been paid out on the basis of the decisions issued. educational benefits. We also know that the introduction, implementation of this action was smooth, the local authorities prepared to implement this action, although the organisational arrangements they applied were very different - from a limited number of application points to a very large number of these points. Regardless of the solution used, there were no serious problems with introducing or accepting applications. As far as payments are concerned, today we know that over PLN 590 million has been paid. All demand by municipalities for financial collateral, [[♪ The bell ♪]] are implemented on an ongoing basis. The measures for the implementation of this programme were also transferred to municipalities without undue delay. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u97	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak up again? I can't see. I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. The time to ask a question is one and a half minutes because a lot of people signed up. I hope we can do this properly. He begins by asking the first question, Mrs... It's already been announced for 1.5 minutes. I heard that from your Marshal at the Civic Platform Club. [[Two minutes were announced.]] No, one and a half minutes. [[Ask him.]] Mrs Beata Mazurek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All research shows that the family is one of the most important values for Poles. When you ask them how many children they want, they declare that two or more. However, the facts are different from declarations, and the fertility rate in Poland is 1.3. The difference between declarations and facts is one of the largest in the world. Asking Poles why they do not have children, we get the answer that there are concerns about the financial safety of the family. The expected effect of the 500+ programme, apart from increasing fertility, is the financial support of families, because unfortunately in Poland we still have a problem with the poverty of families and children. According to the CUS, 840,000. children live below the minimum of existence and 1 million are forced to benefit from social assistance. Therefore, I would like to ask, and above all to say, that when the 500+ funds are systematically transferred to families, these indicators and this situation will change, but this will also have a positive impact on the economic situation, as even economists say. I would therefore like to ask, firstly, what the government expects after the introduction of the Family 500+ programme. In fact, have all the funds already been transferred to the local authorities to prepare the programme? And in general, do local governments signal any problems to simply carry out this program effectively for families? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask you one more thing about my voivodship. How many applications have been submitted in the Lublin Voivodeship so far, how many decisions have been made and how much benefit has been paid and does Lubelskie, especially my family's Chełm, signal any problems in receiving applications and paying benefits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u99	Please take the floor of Magdalena Kochan, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u100	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! It's so weird that after yesterday's show, you guys wanna show off a little bit. I would just like to remind you that in the campaign you promised 500 PLN for each child, as well as the proper service and security of funds for all those participating in this programme. And this program gives powers, but also imposes obligations on all units of the local government. If in the case of municipalities and powiats, the measures are 2% this year, 1.5 in the next year - they are secured, in the case of self-government voivodships, which are obliged in the so-called. the European coordination system to verify the applications of families in which mom lives in the country, and dad abroad or vice versa, you did not foresee any measures. You know that the number of Polish families living outside the country is considerable, we all regret it. But it is also known that due to the number of families, the number of applications that will affect the marshals and will be verified by the marshals will be really large and so it is. By 6 May this year, only 850 applications were received in my voivodship, and since that day they are affected between 60 and 80 per day. It means that each of these conclusions [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to consider individually... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...often using a foreign language in correspondence with the country of residence. Question: "Are you predicting an increase in funds for marshals?" Because the convention of regional social policy centres and marshals is very concerned about this fact. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u101	Thank you, Member. As you can see, you had the full opportunity to speak. And now Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My predecessor, Member of the Commission, asked if you would increase your resources to local governments. And I will ask whether you are even predicting that local governments will receive these funds, because from the letter of the Marshal of Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodship it is clear that so far you have not received any zloty for the co-ordination of this program. Moreover, Mr. Voivode replied to the Marshal's letter that he did not foresee such measures. Madam Minister, not only are local governments implementing this programme, but also the local governments of the provinces, and, as the honourable Member said here, the problems of coordinating these payments will increase. As far as Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship is concerned, there are 4100 applications for 2016 and a doubling of this number is envisaged for next year. It's one question. And the second question, Minister, is to provide financial security for the implementation of this programme in the state budget, because we already know that LTE revenues will be lower than planned in the budget - from 9.2 to 7 billion. With the bank tax, there are already lower revenues - from planned 5.5 to 3.5 billion. And you haven't passed the Trade Tax Act yet, so there's another 2 billion missing. In total, this is over PLN 6 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just that our country can't afford these expenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u103	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ programme is the largest family policy programme known in Poland. The provision is intended to provide economic help in raising children and encourage families to have more. The benefits are not formally included in the income of the family. The payout date is 3 months, the first payments were planned for the beginning of April. We know that the tranches of the funds due have been transferred to the local authorities, so there is no reason to delay payments. But there are delays. As the media recently reported, there was an incident that the bailiff took six children's money from the 500+ program from their mother. In this connection, I have a question: Minister, how many municipalities have not yet started the payment of educational benefits? And two: Why were not the educational benefits secured from the execution of the bailiffs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u105	Thank you very much. Next question... Before it is asked, Mrs Magdalena Kochan - yes, I remember correctly? [[Yeah, I'm sorry.]] Mrs Magdalena Kochan will also apply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u106	Minister, I have a request. I do not know if I will see the end of current information today, because other activities require my presence in the Sejm, and therefore there is a request for a written reply. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u107	Please, Mrs Krystyna Shumilas, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You are proud of how many applications have already been submitted. And I have a question about these proposals which cannot be made because you excluded from the family program, children, by saying that 500 PLN can only be for the second and the next children, and that is only in the range of up to 18 years. I spoke to one of the teachers, the mother of the child yesterday, and she said that this is the main topic of young people's conversations. They feel hurt, they feel kicked out of this program, and their children feel worse. And this teacher said that even more excluded from this program are young people who are only now deciding to have a child, because they know that even if they decide to have a first child, they will not get support from the state, and yet these young people need such support most. How are you going to solve this problem? And the second thing about bailiffs. After all, from the very beginning it was known that the law [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not prevent bailiffs from taking part in the service. That's what the bailiffs were talking about. Why did you allow such mistakes? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The platform, I think.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u109	Thank you very much, Member. Another is Mrs Monica Rosa from Modern, but... Member, we are just waiting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the 500+ programme, specifically the financing of the promotion of this programme, because the amounts spent e.g. on air time it is over PLN 2.5 million, amounts for information materials, leaflets - more than 90,000. zł. As we know, e.g. These flyers combined with plastic cards signed by Prime Minister Beata Szydło weren't really for anything. The people who got those promotional materials just threw them away. Therefore, my question about the purpose of spending so much money from the state budget for the promotion of the programme, which everyone knew existed, and so this information was very wide in connection with your access to the media. My question is: What is the purpose of spending so much money on promoting not even the programme as much as the party itself? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u111	Thank you very much. Is Mrs Urszula Ruseck here? You're welcome, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's hard not to speak to my predecessors, because I think we have something to show for it, so we're bragging about it. On the other hand, black PR or PR specialists were the governments of the previous team at all. [[Applause]] [[Yesterday you gave me proof of that.]] At that time, they were mostly bragging about things that were done and that were not done. Minister, I would like today's information on matters of substance. We know that it takes six weeks to implement a unique, groundbreaking program that is wonderful for Polish families. There were concerns that, at the time of implementation of this programme, the heavy burden that fell on the local authorities would translate into a situation where the possibility of submitting proposals would be paralyzed. The Ministry has also introduced an electronic system, new electronic systems for submitting applications. I have a question. What are the experiences gained from the implementation of these new, previously unused forms of electronic submission and how the Ministry refers to the initiative of the Polish Bank Association [[♪ The bell ♪]] setting up subaccounts in banks? Another question asked by the predecessor: What funds are earmarked for promotion in relation to such a large programme? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u113	Thank you very much. I ask for the floor of Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In implementing the 500+ programme, the impact assessment for women's projected labour market outflow has not been taken into account. There is a particular concern about the risk of people falling out of the labour market close to income thresholds. There are known cases where the mother of three children is fired from work. Hence my question: What is the expected impact of the 500+ programme on women's professional activation? Is it possible to observe the non-return or extension of the period of non-return to professional life of persons after maternity or parental leave? Do you not think that the 500+ programme will be somewhat demotivated and therefore there is an increase in the registration of unemployed people? This is the first part of the question. I will add so briefly that from my region of Lower Silesia there are signals about the suspension of the IT system. E-banking does not fully fulfil the task either, as there are major errors in the applications made by the persons concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would you like to introduce a validation of the data? Are you thinking of improving a system that will make it easier to check applications that come by electronic means? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u115	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The 500+ programme is a programme, in terms of finance, of a very large scale, which will have a very large impact on local government budgets. For this reason I ask for information: How to program 500+ will affect the ratio of property expenditure to current expenditure in local governments? This is important because this ratio is important in terms of the liquidity of local governments, and secondly it is important because of the indicators that allow the debt of local governments, i.e. taking loans for investment and service, and the cost of borrowing, and the cost of credit. Therefore, I ask for information, once, how this will affect this ratio, two, which will have an impact on the indicators on the possibility of government debt and debt management. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u117	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Kopcinska, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Pro-family policy is one of the most important challenges facing the Polish government in general, the Polish politicians. The 500+ programme is an excellent programme, which - whether you like it or not - needs and needs to be praised, because this programme, the Minister for whom we thank the Prime Minister and the State, responds to the needs of Polish families: gives, guarantees constant support for Polish families, gives the chance that in Poland, where children are low, more children will be born, but also gives support to the Polish economy. This program is a program expected by parents who raise children, parents and young couples, young families who want to have children. [[Which they won't get...]] They will, my fellow Member. Don't scare Polish families. Look at this show. You didn't believe that. He's alive and alive. Thanks to it Polish children will be born and the Polish economy will be powered. [[Applause]] I wanted to ask, Minister: Did you need to advertise this program? Were advertising agencies involved in any advertising? I would also ask you to answer: What did it look like in front of other programs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u119	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The program has many flaws and in certain situations simply supports pathology. For example, we have divorced people with three children... [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] ...of which the father raises one child and the mother raises two children. Mother has a maintenance obligation she doesn't fulfill. The father is not entitled to receive State aid in raising his child because he has a high income and the mother receives a benefit from the 500+ programme for the second child. This causes a deep sense of injustice. Since the program was intended for children only, maybe we need to find another way to distribute these funds? I would like to ask in the context of this situation: Is there a planned amendment to the Law on State aid to raise children, which will exclude maintenance debtors from the 500+ programme at least until they start paying the child support due? And one more quick question. Special buses were sent to promote the 500+ program. I have a question: What was the cost of purchasing these vehicles and how much is paid for their trips to the field, how many of these buses were sent to promote the 500+ programme and what is the overall cost of promoting this programme? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member. As you can see, you also fit in a minute and a half, there was no problem. And now I will ask Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club, to speak. [[Your Marshal...]] [[Let him make a statement and that's it.]] [[Voice from the room: What's going on here?]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A while ago, I asked the Minister, the question has already been asked about bailouts. The Minister replied to me that there was no way that such bailouts would take place, and yet it did. I'm after talking to the bailiff corporation and I've been told that these are accounts occupied in 2015 and they have no bearing on the fact that these funds are occupied. My question is, how do you want to solve this? Is the bank supposed to control this, or isn't the money supposed to be transferred to bank accounts? How can we solve this problem so that these bailouts do not exist? The second thing, from life taken, is the gray zone. In our own experience and in our conversation with people, we know that workers come who do not want to be employed because their income will increase and they will not receive benefits under the 500+ programme. Are you going to somehow control employment, the gray area or the employment offices for those who do not want to take up work and are entitled to a benefit under the 500+ programme, while after taking up a job this benefit would not benefit them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u123	Thank you very much, sir. The next speaker is Dariusz Starzycki, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The 500+ family programme is a flagship programme of Law and Justice, for which Polish families, especially Polish families, have been waiting, who appreciate the advantages of this programme. Well, I was asked by one of the associations to ask the Minister about this programme. Namely Catholic Association of Multi-Children's Families. St. Jadwiga Śląska asks for the following information. The Act provides that the first child benefit may be obtained if the income per family member does not exceed PLN 800 or is not more than PLN 1200 per family member if any of the children in the family are disabled. The legislator did not foresee a higher income criterion for families where one parent is a disabled person or both parents are disabled persons and the child is healthy, although this, according to this association, has an impact on the income and social situation of the family, as in the case of a family with a disabled child. The child of a disabled parent is unequally treated and harmed not only by fate but also by laws that do not take into account the disability of his parents. In families where there is a disabled person, regardless of whether it is a child or an adult, income and expenses can spread out similarly, and often when a parent is ill, the situation is even more difficult, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, even the minimum overrun of the criterion does not result in financial support being granted. I therefore ask the question, Minister: Is there any future changes in the 500+ programme law to take into account the needs of families where parents and not children are disabled? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u125	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u126	Something like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u127	Platform Club, I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. [[Voice from the room: It's only a matter of time.]] It's not law and justice, it's the Civic Platform. I'm so sorry. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u128	I haven't gotten the offer yet, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u129	I don't think the Member would like me to move him to another club, and therefore, Mr Pierce, it's just a mistake. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u130	You did me, didn't you? Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the objectives of the 500+ programme is to reduce poverty among the youngest, as the Minister also said today. You can't really agree with that, given that there are people who are poor, too, where there's one child, right? This 800 zloty isn't some amount again. It also has some good aspects, because those who do not need these 500 zlotys simply because of their wealth, as I read on the Internet, allocate these 500 zlotys for a noble purpose, e.g. The Democratic Defence Committee. The question is whether the Minister's proposal is actually like this. If a mother with a child or two children has a very low salary, in the order of 1200 zł, gets alimony and the sum exceeds slightly this 800 zł per family member, then it is out, does not qualify for this program. It seems, however, that this is very unfair and unfair. If you confirm that one of the objectives of this programme is to reduce poverty among the youngest, it is either to consider whether it really is, or to correct it, because it is a little cheating. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those who are really poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u131	Thank you very much, sir. And now Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u132	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not art to boast of giving away tens of billions of zlotys. I think anybody could do that. I wonder one thing, because the fact that these tens of billions of zlotys will come out of the budget is a clear matter, but I wanted to ask you whether you are monitoring these negative situations in any way, because I have the impression that you have been so chased in this glory that it was only the President who had to respond to the obvious injustice arising in connection with this program, that is, chamber activities. About these threats, among others. The modern one has already spoken during the process of this bill. The state acted as if you had flip-flops in front of your eyes, absolutely not listening to what the opposition said. I also wanted to ask about further aspects of the operation of this programme. Are you investigating the extent to which the grey zone will increase as a result of this programme? They keep getting information that people are quitting their jobs, getting along with their employers to lower their salary to get 500 zlotys. As long as natural unemployment is increased due to the fact that some people are constantly losing their motivation to work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many women have left work because of this program? And here's the question: How much is spent... [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...for things that are not related to raising children, e.g. Scarves brought in from the West, alcohol, cigarettes, etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u133	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u134	I'm sorry, Marshal, I still wanted to ask you to answer in writing, because other seymoral duties probably won't allow me to... [[Mr. President, it's time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u135	Let the Marshal or the Vice-Marshal hold a session of the Sejm. I take it everyone's a little out of time. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u136	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that it is the duty of the state to support the poorest and to support families is obvious to all. Maybe for everyone except the opposition that hasn't done it so far. [[39 billion. It's worth it...]] There's a saying that the poor don't understand. Calling the program 500+ pathology is really indecent. But to the point. I wanted to say one thing: just before the implementation of the 500+ programme, there was such information in the media area that some local governments have great concerns about whether they can cope with this challenge. There have also been arguments that measures may run out, e.g. the efficient operation of this program and there may be problems with getting there, with help, with the support of all who are eligible for this program. Today we know that the fears have not been confirmed. This is demonstrated by the fact that more than 2 million applications have already been submitted, completed at service points, but also electronically. For this reason, I have a question to ask the Minister: What action has the Ministry taken to prepare the local authorities for the efficient operation and implementation of such a large operational project, which is the 500+ programme? And the second question is: Why has the payment of the education in some municipalities already taken place, and in others still the families have not received the money and are waiting for it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u137	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to speak with Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The 500+ family programme is undoubtedly an injection of cash for Poles. The government presents the implementation of the programme to the public as trouble-free, but this is not entirely true. I'm going back to the problem that's already been dealt with today. The voivodship government is struggling with the problem. My question is: When will the government mobilise funds to cover the costs of implementing the 500+ programme by the local governments of the voivodship? On the basis of the article. 29 of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid in raising children, the marshals' offices are to carry out tasks in the field of education. The duties of the Marshal of the voivodship are to perform the functions of the competent institution in connection with the participation of the Republic of Poland in the coordination of social security systems in the case of movements of persons within the European Union and the European Economic Area and to issue administrative decisions in matters of educational provision carried out in connection with the coordination of social security systems. In Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship, because I represent it, in 2015 there were more than 4100 families covered by such coordination. The governor wrote back this year that the funds were gone. The Marshal sent two letters to the Minister: one dated 17 March, the other dated 5 April. ♪ To this day ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] He didn't get any answers. Please answer me. Then maybe I'll get it in writing. And one more question: Does the Ministry have any information on how many applications were rejected because it did not meet the criteria? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u139	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! Of course, the 500+ programme is a programme that responds to certain needs of the country's demographic problems, but it is one of the most expensive and least effective programmes that could be created. I would therefore like to ask you one basic question: What about the sources of funding? As we know, this programme will cost PLN 17 billion this year. We know that even this year there may not be certain revenues that were foreseen to cover the costs of this programme. We know that perhaps the LTE will be less than 9 billion. It is already known that the bank tax will generate less revenue than expected. Also with regard to the commercial tax, because it is as usual in the world, there is neither a law, therefore it can be predicted that the revenues that were to come from it will be lower than they were expected. But I wanted to ask you what happened next year. How do you plan to finance this project next year? Let me remind you that next year is PLN 24 billion. There will be no income from LTE, we do not know whether there will be a trade tax or not, because there is still no draft or bill passed. As far as banking tax is concerned, we already know that banks are doing everything they can to avoid paying it, and therefore they are rather moving, for example. assets in the form of loans outside than they leave in the country. That is why I wanted to ask you how you foresee the possibility of financing this project next year and next year. Will this not be at the expense of an increasing budget deficit? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u141	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How much we needed this program, we have heard many times in this Chamber. At this point, special thanks should be given to the Minister and to the Prime Minister for having the courage to introduce this programme in the first months of governance. Ladies and gentlemen! All Poles understood that this program is needed, does not understand only the opposition or does not want to understand, or believes that funds transferred to support Polish families will be processed by Polish families... [[Listen to me.]] ...be also Polish women instead of working, will raise Polish children. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how Polish families should be treated. It is a shame that this is how you judge Polish families. The programme was very needed because the poverty rate in Polish families, in Poland after years of government, was over 7.4%. [[By the will of the nation, eight years.]] According to the talks with Poles, they are very grateful that these funds will go to their families. Minister! We took part in the promotion of this program because we needed this promotion very much, but nevertheless there were doubts and questions. So I have a question for you. What possibilities have the Poles been given for submitting applications? I also have a question as to whether the system referred to here was the Emp@tia system, which you introduced and spent many million zlotys on it, and it was disabled, [[♪ The bell ♪]] has been improved, operates and can currently be applied through this system. [[Applause]] [[It's your show.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u143	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A reliable report should be based on concrete calculations and measurable units and the conclusions that result from these data, not forecasts and if so. I understand that today it is only current information, but my question is: Do you intend to draw up a report on the implementation of the programme? By what date and how will it be developed? A few questions about the implementation of the 500+ programme. You said at the beginning of today's debate that it was a prodemographic programme, and you also pointed out that since the launch these indicators have increased. That's why I'm surprised how you've counted it, since it's not been nine months since the program was implemented. What you're saying is an estimate, not real data. I would also like to ask what the liquidity of payments looks like and what is the average payout time, which is from when the application is formally submitted until the payout. What does it look like all over Poland? How does it look in Wrocław? How does it look in Lower Silesia? I would also like to ask how many employees had to be employed in addition to the 500+ programme, and how many workers were given additional responsibilities to carry out this programme. From the information from Lower Silesia I know that there is a lot of work. People work overtime. What are the remuneration costs and have these costs been pre-included in the programme? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much is it today? Does 500+ cost 750 PLN today or more? That's what I wanted to ask you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u145	Thank you very much. Another speech, Mrs Ewa Malik, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, actually yesterday, I was astonished to hear the attack on our government, as well as the Minister of Social Policy herself. [[Someone dared.]] In view of what he was doing at that time, during those years, Minister Kosiniak-Kamish, attacking the government yesterday, I recall... [[What are you talking about?]] ...what a family savings policy he's been using himself. These were practically draconian savings on families. [[39 billion PLN in previous years and this.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] Ma'am, there hasn't been a higher income criterion in years that could raise the level of well-being in families. And for years, for eight years, I don't think he raised that criterion. Therefore, as regards these savings from our government, I would like to ask the Minister what advertising agency has prepared a campaign strategy of 500+, because in this context savings seem to me to be an important topic. I would like to refer to what the Minister said this morning on TV. It's just that some families [[♪ The bell ♪]] She hasn't gotten an extra 500+ so far. I would therefore like to ask whether measures have been taken to facilitate the application for education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u147	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the next Member, I will say that we have students of the primary school in the Grand Trumpets on the balcony. [[Applause]] - I don't know where it is. Hi, I hope you like it in the Seym and it will be a pleasant impression of your stay in Warsaw. And now you... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Where is it? The trumpets? [[With one like that, your marshal...]] Thank you very much. That's nice. All the more so because in your case, I was wrong about the club. So that's all the more nice. And now Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After yesterday's festival of lies, I want to tell you that lies don't become true just because at a given moment he believes no more people, they really don't. Minister, you lied about this program, too. First you said it was for every kid. You've fooled 3 million people. Later, you did not accept any opposition proposal, you were unshakable about the fate of single mothers raising children. Now you're bragging about everything being great. And it's not. Those 2 million applications submitted by the end of April, as reported by the media, in the Wielkopolska Voivodeship as many as 64 local governments experienced problems with the payment of funds under the 500+ programme. In addition, there were major problems with submitting an application electronically. No conclusions were received. designed flexibly, intuitively, in such a way that they can be properly filled. In one of the Bielsk municipalities, all applications submitted by this route were flawed. Therefore, Minister, sometimes listen to the opposition and do not believe that when you won the elections, you became the owner of Poland because it is our money and we are all responsible for it. You've only got time for this now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Serving this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u149	Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Under the Law on State Aid in Raising Children, parental benefits are not subject to chamber and administrative execution. At the time of transfer of the benefit to the bank account of the parent or the person holding the debtor's care, there is a risk that this benefit may be taken by the bailiff. So, Minister, I have a question: How have the educational benefits been secured from the bailiff's execution? Ladies and gentlemen, the critics of the 500+ family law say that women will be fired from work, will not seek it or simply return to it when they receive parental benefits. It is very sad that those critics do not believe in entrepreneurship, in wisdom, in the resourcefulness of Polish women. Let's not worry, ladies and gentlemen. Let them decide their lives, their careers. In fact, the opposition doesn't know if they want to know that it's a chance for women to be around their children in their upbringing. It's the most beautiful job for women, because whether they want it or not, motherhood is a gift, not a punishment. [[Applause]] My question is: Will the program affect the deactivation/activation [[♪ The bell ♪]] Professional women? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u151	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, the club... [[The Member is still holding a committee meeting.]] There's no envoy. So we cross him out, maybe he'll be late. Members have switched, and now Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The family programme 500+. is received very positively by Polish families. Only the opposition with the stubbornness of a better case claims that it is different to raise problems. It's not hard to resist an impression like she's trying to invent another one that doesn't exist. On the other hand, the figures, ladies and gentlemen, speak for themselves. Only in the first days of the programme, more than 100,000 were submitted in the first days of April. conclusions. Currently, the number of applications submitted is over 2 million. The payment of funds is currently underway. In view of the above, Minister, I have a question: Should the payment of funds under the 500+ family scheme be carried out according to the order in which applications are submitted? And the next question is, where will the government get the money for the 500+ family programme next year and next year? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u153	Thank you very much. The next speech was a speech by Dariusz Kubiak, a club called Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Government's 500+ family programme is the first such programme proposed to Poles. It will be used by 2.7 million families. Economic forecasts, such as Morgan Stanley, say that this 17 billion PLN in the economic system will stimulate the economy, giving entrepreneurs the impetus to increase production levels. This is also due to an increase in investment and employment. It is also assumed that loans will be cheapened and that the Monetary Policy Council will lower the main interest rate this year at the National Bank of Poland. I have a question for the Minister: Do you consider these forecasts to be realistic and can it actually happen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u155	Thank you very much. And with another question, or in fact an introduction, Mr Sylvester Tulaev, club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Are you an MP? There isn't. Then it is Mrs Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u156	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Family 500+. is the best family-friendly program you could dream of. As a teacher and longtime school director, I regretted the poverty and poverty of many Polish families. Thanks to this program Polish children will no longer go to school hungry. I conducted a series of individual talks and a lot of press conferences in my constituency of Płock-Ciechanowski. The vast majority of my listeners are very pleased with such support for Polish families. To fill in my information, I have a question for the Minister. What impact will the 500+ family programme have on the material situation of Polish families with children? Will the 500+ press articles be paid for? I have one more piece of information. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I have a huge request, do not call poor Polish families or families that are divorced, pathology, because none of you know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't know what's gonna happen to him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u157	Please, Member. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Frzygłocka only wants to know about written...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a big favor to ask. Since I have to leave the O.R., I would very much ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u159	Katarzyna Czochara, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u160	Minister! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, from 1 April 2016, you can apply for 500+. It's a wonderful and template design of our government. The latest figures show that more than 2 million applications have been submitted across the country, about 1.5 million in offices and about 0.5 million via the Internet. To this day more than 400,000 have been accepted. Applications and paid out to our families a huge amount of PLN 127 million. I would like to stress that the support of families raising children is one of the most important governmental tasks that we are doing right now. However, experience shows that in such systemic projects it is important to be vigilant and prevent possible problems and threats. We as Law and Justice respect the autonomy of Polish families and believe that they themselves know best what their children need. Minister, I have a question. Does the Ministry assume control over the spending of allocated funds, i.e. what parents spend on? Money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u161	You're welcome. Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Sorry I'm late, I was holding a meeting of the Committee on Petitions, and that is why I could not participate in this debate from the beginning. I am therefore not sure that this issue has no longer sounded, but I would like to return to the exclusion of a group of children with disabilities from the 500+ programme. The Act provides that children with a slight degree of disability cannot receive this benefit if, of course, it is the first child, i.e. in the situation where such additional, extraordinary support was to be provided, those children with a slight disability were excluded. What do I think is such a bright, damaging outcome of this decision, this solution? Children up to 16 years of age are not distinguished in terms of disability, this distinction applies to children after 16 years of age, i.e. between 16 and 18 years of age, a child with a slight disability is not entitled to this benefit. And what is the unique severity? Often, the fact that this child is only slightly disabled is the result of the enormous, hard work done since the birth of this child. For example, in children with cerebral palsy due to intensive constant rehabilitation, the effect of this disability can actually be reduced very effectively. Unheard children, we have a unique European screening programme [[♪ The bell ♪]] hearing tests in children born. Thus, if you work hard with this child, it will be quite effective after 16 years of age. Please correct this program. We ask those children from this program not to be excluded. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u163	Thank you very much. Another speech, I would like to ask Mrs Małgorzata Golinska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u164	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! First of all, thank you very much, Minister, for the consistency and speed of this programme that we are talking about. The first signals that come to me from my district are moving. Moms say they're finally gonna take the kids to the movies or take a trip. At the same time, there are often questions about restrictions on access to the programme. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question of why the upper age limit for granting a benefit is 18 years old, which means that the programme does not include the education of older children. And another question. Although for more than two decades the 500+ family programme has been the first such comprehensive support for families raising children, no government has ever done so much for families, and it has to be recalled that over the last eight years there have been money even for gold Mercedes, they have supported innovative shoe boxes, horoscopes for dogs, posts in an honest field - interesting, by the way, how the children felt then - I would like to ask whether the 500+ family programme ends with a family policy of law and justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u165	Thank you very much. Ms Anna April, Club Law and Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In a situation of demographic collapse, the 500+ programme is a programme to support parenting and certainly meets with warm reception by families, especially large families. Things are getting a little complicated with divorced parents. I often get the following questions, please answer them. Who will receive a benefit in the case of divorced parents or families with different relationships? And another question: Can parents pick up a child from a child's home or foster care to receive a parenting benefit? I have one more remark. I'm listening to you, especially from the Civic Platform and the PSL. I remember when the Big Family Card came into force in the last term. Ladies and gentlemen, the Large Family Card applies to families where there must be at least three children. Why did you really deprive the state of the possibility of using this program and of the benefit it is, for example. access to cultural goods, to cheaper travels, first and second children in a situation where families have two children? You're melting over the situation of your first child in the family, and somehow in the case of the Big Family Charter regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have forgotten that there are poor families, where there is, for example. Two kids. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u167	Thank you very much. I would like to speak with Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The demographic problem that has been presented here is a really important issue, a matter that requires very rapid action. There are two such models of action. One is a German model: we invite immigrants. The second is the Polish model in which this program is 500+. I would like to ask you: How will this programme affect demographics and, above all, what will the dynamics of this impact be expected? And the second thing that is very important is: How many applications have been submitted electronically and what is the difference between handling a paper-based application and an electronic application? And one more question: Is it because of comparison with other programs, e.g. 1000 PLN per child, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether, therefore, this programme for these needs should not be called the 108 000 programme. For every kid? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u169	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must address my previous speakers, especially Mrs Shumilas, whom I no longer see here, because I, like Mrs Shumilas, speak to my mothers, not only with one, but also with many, and they say that they felt hurt for eight years, under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL, because in nothing exactly the previous government has helped them, so nothing has been given for any child, let alone another, third child, etc. I have a question for the Minister. I took part in meetings organized in voivodships before the start of the program and I remember how the local governments had many different doubts. Now, after more than a month of implementation of the programme, I wanted to ask myself: What are the local governments currently reporting to you about your doubts, problems, how the government supports these local authorities in solving their problems, and how many decisions have already been made on the benefits granted in my Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u171	Thank you very much. And to speak, I will ask Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u172	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, In the context of the State of public affairs and state institutions report presented by the Council of Ministers at the date of the end of the PO-PSL coalition, do you believe that the previous government could have implemented a programme similar to that of the 500+ family? [[Voice from the room: He didn't think of it.]] On behalf of many Polish families, I cordially thank you for this program. And it should probably end there, be glad that he is, that this program is functioning, that it is necessary for our beloved Poland, however, surprisingly, with the wave of criticism of the opposition one needs to justify, e.g. The elephant has a trumpet, not a giraffe. The arguments used by the opposition are surprising, sometimes outrageous. The money gained thanks to this program will allow many Polish families to live normal, more decent lives. Too many disparities occurred in the level of life of Polish families. Those who had little had less and less. Those who had a lot had more and more. That's how it's worked in the last eight years. And I'm surprised you want to criticize such a wonderful program. Quite a waste of public money, they are very much needed e.g. for the 500+ program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u173	Thank you very much. Is Mr Krzysztof July here? I can't see. In that case, Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Intuitively from the beginning I thought that this program was necessary and important, but I carefully tried to listen to the criticisms that were formulated by the opposition. In particular, there was an argument that this money would be wrongly spent by families, that they would go to pathological families, for example. For alcohol. In recent weeks, I visited eight municipalities in the district of Poznań. These are very different municipalities, some are small towns, others are Poznań's bedrooms, others are rural communities. I asked the heads of social services about whether this concern was real, and in all cases I heard the answer that this is an absolute margin, that on the fingers of one hand you can count families in which the money is wrong or will be spent in such a way. I wanted to ask the Minister if you were able to confirm this observation and this experience across the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u175	Thank you very much. Is Mr Piotr Kalet here? There isn't. Mr Jerzy Paul? No. Mrs Anna Milczanowska. There isn't any either. Mr Stanisław Pieta. There isn't any either. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Club Law and Justice. [[There it is, there it is. He's running.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm from a community like Bartoszyce. Such municipalities have really achieved very good results in the 500+ programme. I have to say, my community has 11,000. residents, and already 1,160 children received 500 PLN each. And this is important for such municipalities, which in Warmia and Mazury are really many. It is areas such as Warmia and Mazury that will benefit most from this. Let me remind you, some people here do not remember that last year the data of the CUS was given: almost 15% people in Warmia and Mazury live below biological level. And that's why I have a question about how this program will help these people in poverty. I'm sure it will help, but do you have any insight into this? And I would also like to say that this really is a program that needs to be praised. He gives an example of how we can help these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u177	Thank you very much. Are you Marek Polak? [[I'm here, Marshal.]] The Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that this is a wonderful program that many families have been waiting for, especially those who see the best investment of their lives in their children. I have a very brief question for the Minister, which just occurred to me. I would like to ask if parents working abroad and having the address of permanent residence in Poland and only Polish citizenship should such an allowance be made? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club, closes the list of Members. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I listen to what each of you says, both from Law and Justice and from other clubs, and I would like to say that I myself as Zbyszek Ajchler, Member of the Republic, as each of you, at the exposé Prime Minister Szydło, clearly said that I am in favour of the 500+ programme on one condition that it will be precisely developed. We're talking about revenue precisely defined where it's coming from, and securing that revenue. I raised three children, today adults, I know what it means to bear the financial burden of raising children, and I want to make it clear that I personally believe that children in my case - and, I think, mostly - were raised in love, born in love. Of course, then, after love, you must bear the burdens of their upbringing. No matter what we spend our money on, this 500 PLN, the Polish society does not have the standards that Western society has, and it would be pleased. Nevertheless, it must be said that it is a huge amount of money: 17 billion now... [[Question, sir.]] [[This is a debate, sir.]] ...23 billion later. What I'm saying is that the security features of this money have to be clear. The authorities and mayors of the municipalities in which I checked it clearly say that the money is spent on cells, on RTV. I have an inquiry to the Minister to see if he provides for the payment of this money only in form. [[♪ The bell ♪]] cash. Does it provide for checks on the quality of the spending of these coins? And does it provide security for proper, deliberate spending of this money for families so that they do not come across unnecessary alcohols and other things, other tools and mechanisms? This is important, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u181	Thank you very much. This time as the last Mr Jerzy Gosievski. I gave my consent to a Member from the Civic Platform, and so did a Member from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u182	Dear Marshal! I would like to thank you very much for having the rights of the Member of Law and Justice too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u183	Absolutely, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u184	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Payment of educational benefits under the 500+ programme for residents of Warmia and Mazury is of particular importance. Since the income of our residents is much lower than in other regions of the country, this benefit is a very significant aid for families raising children. The people of my region, the region of Warmia and Mazury have asked me very much to express my thanks to the Government of Law and Justice and to all the parliamentarians who supported the implementation of this programme, which I am also very pleased to do at the moment. Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, As this benefit is of great importance to us, it is very important, as far as possible, that the beneficiaries be dealt with efficiently and that the benefits are paid in a timely manner, as the municipalities are obliged to do. In the field, I am repeatedly restoring the truth and explaining that the educational benefits are paid from the state budget, that they are not money from wojettes, mayors or municipal or municipal directors. [[♪ The bell ♪]] assistance centres. The municipalities receive funds for the payment of benefits and, in addition, considerable money for the operation of this scheme, but some municipalities have failed completely from this exam. The authorities of these weaker municipalities on the one hand suggest that...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u185	Mr President, please come to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u186	...they're so generous, and on the other hand they can't handle the efficient operation of the 500+ family program. Minister, the question is: Why didn't all municipalities start paying their benefits? Thank you very much. Thank you very much again, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u187	You're welcome. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Waldemar Andzel's applicants. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government's 500+ family programme was welcomed very positively by the majority of Poles. According to research by the Centre for Social Opinion Research about pro-family policy, almost all Poles heard about it before the introduction of the witness. 80% of them support this instrument of support for Polish families, including almost half definitely. The government program is supported by all socio-demographic groups, which means that Polish families, regardless of political views, place of residence or property status, have long been waiting for the rulers of a comprehensive support plan that would help them in their daily work. The programme supports 95% of Law and Justice sympathizers. It is worth adding, however, that its supporters are also mostly sympathizers of the Civic Platform (65%) ) - although the Platform here has been so critical of our programme, its supporters see how it is and support it - and the Modern one (62% ). This is proof that Poles, accustomed by previous rulers to the lack of concrete support, certainly appreciate the good change taking place in our country, especially in the field of pro-family policy. Support for the new family support instrument expressed by Poles with different political views shows that similar benefits should be implemented earlier. It is therefore surprising that the opponents of Law and Justice indicate that the amount of the benefit is too low, that Polish families should receive even higher support. Given both the needs of the family and the financial capacity of the State, and the fact that a similar instrument has not yet functioned, 500 PLN per child is an appropriate amount of aid. Most Poles believe that the state should encourage people to have more children by pursuing appropriate policies. Hence the widespread belief that the introduction of the programme will benefit society. Poles hope that the entry into force of the programme will increase the number of births in Poland, and that the need to improve the fertility rate was one of the main reasons why Law and Justice introduced educational services. One of the positive effects of the programme is already felt by the family of 500+, which is a significant improvement in the material condition of Polish families, especially those of poor and many children. Additional money from day one facilitates the daily functioning of families, allowing them to meet their expectations and aspirations. Undoubtedly, the separation between the rich and the poor will be reduced to some extent. Other beneficial effects we will be able to observe over time. Here we are talking about improving the state of the Polish economy and, above all, increasing the fertility rate. We must bear in mind that the real effects of the "500+' programme will occur when the newborn children enter the productive age. The program is a great cause for joy for Polish families. As many Members of the Law and Justice have stressed here, they have finally received solid support, which is proof that the Law and Justice keep promises made to Poles during the election campaign. The 500+ family programme is a huge success of the current law and justice camp. It is also an expression that if there is a desire for positive solutions and good will on the part of the rulers, anything is possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. And we will ask the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elizabeth Rafalska to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There's a lot of questions. We will give written answers to some of the questions, as you have said. Let me start by answering the question that Mrs Mazurek put, which is a fundamental and fundamental question: What was the purpose of this government programme, the 500+ family? Well, the first basic goal was a pronatistic goal, and I was talking about this, an increase in the fertility rate. In this long-term, 10-year forecast, there is talk of an increase in the rate from 1.26 to 1.6 and an increase in births by 287 thousand. There was also a specific question about how many applications are in the Lublin Voivodeship. As if in advance of the other questions, because MEPs are probably interested in how many of these applications have been submitted in your regions, I would like to present the various voivodships: Dolnośląskie voivodship - 150 thousand. conclusions, about, I will not give a very precise number, because it is definitely different today, Kujawsko-Pomorskie - 130 thousand, Lubelskie - 125, Lubuskie - 57, Łódź - 135, Małopolskie - 210, Mazowieckie - 330, Opolskie - 45, Podkarpackie - 140, I am still talking about thousands, Podlaskie - 70, Pomorskie - 145, Silesian - approx. 240 thousand, Świętokrzyskie - 73, Mazury - 90 thousand. applications, Wielkopolska - 230 thousand. applications and West Pomerania - approx. 90,000. conclusions. There has been a question, ladies and gentlemen, which later came in the statements of other Members, about the exclusion of a certain group of children, about the fact that this is unfair. Mrs Shumilas spoke of this. Well, ladies and gentlemen, our bill is a state aid law in raising children. This is a help, a benefit that is addressed to a family, not to a specific child. On the other hand, the mechanism for calculating this benefit is based on those principles which we are talking about, the income criterion 800, 1200 PLN, so we cannot talk about the fact that the benefit is for the son, for the daughter - it is a witness for the parents and it is to support the family in raising children. There was also a question about the fact that we do not support the poorest families with one child. Well, ladies and gentlemen, of course we do. The social benefit criterion is PLN 514, which is the poorest families, in order to receive social assistance, social assistance provision, must meet this criterion. With this program, the family must meet the income criterion of 800 PLN. Consequently, there is a really large gap between the social welfare income criterion and the criterion used in our witnessing. There was a question, and it also often went through, about promotional action, about the cost of promotional action, how much it cost us. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the costs of the family ministry regarding the promotion of the programme, which consists of the costs of this action, i.e. the media campaign, information and promotional material. And now this: promotional materials - 14,000, infographics - 6800. I'm not gonna give the whole thing anymore, and I'm gonna name all these titles, and maybe it's a bigger one -- maybe it's the production of advertising spots -- 100,000. zł and antenna time, emissions - 2,5 million PLN. The cost of leaflets promoting the programme was 93 000. The leaflets were prepared by the publishing and printing plant and all the materials that were prepared by us, whether the promotional and information materials were also those materials that were used during the training run by the local government. No company was hired to prepare the promotional and information campaign, and no one prepared the campaign for us. All the press releases that were in the papers were interviews that weren't any paid ads. No external, additional persons were employed in the course of the training action. The strategy of the information campaign was developed by us, not by any outside company. It was financed by the funds at the Ministry's disposal, i.e. the resources at our disposal. I think for the size and cost of the program... The cost of promotional and information campaigns was 0,016 of the total costs. I would not like to mention the costs of other information campaigns compared to the funds spent. The question was whether this action was necessary at all, since the program was perhaps part of Polish families known. Of course she was needed. It was our duty to carry out such an information action so that every Polish family knew that they could submit an application, because only then could they submit an application because there was no and there is no possibility of granting it out of office. During our information campaign, I met many times with the fact that the families were saying that they had learned that they could benefit from the 500+ benefit, but they did not know that they had been able to benefit from the family benefit for many years, which had been in force since 2004, because they were simply not informed about it, they simply did not know it. Many questions were asked about securing financial resources for local governments and about delays in payments. The funds for the implementation of the programme, the first tranche, which allowed local governments to run the service of the benefit, hire employees, train them, prepare them organisationally for this, were transferred within 7 days of the entry into force of the law. The local governments immediately received, and significant, support, much more than one monthly tranche. At the moment, local authorities also receive the funds they apply for on an ongoing basis, in line with the demand and the municipalities, to start payments. Have all the municipalities started paying these benefits? On 2479 municipalities in April, i.e. this is not the state for today, he may be completely different, 402 local governments did not start payouts, and 180 local governments did not make a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about April. It's just that someone's making an application on April 15th, and that doesn't mean that a decision or payment is made within a week. Remember, there are thousands of applications for service. When the program was launched, we said that the first payments could be at the beginning of May, and the first payments were already made at the beginning of April. A lot more municipalities are paying money, much more decisions have been made, because if we say more than 2,200 thousand have been adopted at the moment. conclusions, this is a huge amount, ladies and gentlemen, of these applications, more than we could have expected, bearing in mind that 2,700 thousand. families may submit applications. As regards applications which have been submitted on-line, we know that some of these applications contain errors that some [[♪ The bell ♪]] conclusions... That's it? Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u191	Time's up, but I'm gonna extend... Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I'm so sorry that... Minister, let me... Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: ...I'm not gonna be able to answer that. Minister, why don't I finish my statement, okay? I'm extending your time by three minutes. You're welcome. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: I apologize for not answering some of these specific questions. Of course, the program is constantly monitored. Today we cannot respond to the impact on the labour market because it is only at the end of June that we will be able to make the first attempts to evaluate, because today the ministry has insufficient data. It is impossible to judge after about PLN 600 million has been transferred, which has an impact on the economy. With regard to these forecasts, which you have asked here, whether they have a chance to come true and whether economic growth can be higher by 0.5 percentage points, of course it is. These are forecasts that are independent of the Ministry and we hope they will. What's the security against the bailiff's execution? Soon, the funds that will enter the family accounts will be marked. The bailiff can identify them. In our legal solution, there is a provision that the educational provision is free from bail-out, from bail-out and from administrative execution. Which of the questions can I answer here? I am sure that the interest of the programme, and this enormous organisational challenge, will be committed by the government to systematically present such information. Of course, I welcome your comments, in which you are critical of us. Please believe that we are not saying that the implementation of such a large programme can take place without the slightest problems, because we are dealing with, we are working with almost 2,5 thousand. municipalities. Indeed, it happens that some municipalities pay a large amount of benefits once, others from municipalities accumulate these decisions, because in one municipality it was collected one day, in another municipality another. The Uncles say they wanted these decisions to be made and that the payouts should go at the same time. So as if there are also decisions that are independent decisions of local governments that carry out this task. Therefore, interference on the part of the government is not possible, nor is it necessary, because nothing like this is happening, which would require our interference, albeit to those municipalities that did not start the payments and have already issued decisions much earlier... Minister, you're welcome to leave. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: ...we're asking questions. In conclusion, because there were also questions about this financial aspect, especially about the marshals, I will say that certainly within the framework of coordination of social security systems and what is related to the provision of educational services, the local authorities of the voivodship will have these issues regulated. We are in the process of agreeing with the voivodship on the amount of quotas. It was not possible for the local government to apply this mechanism, which was applied to the municipalities, i.e. the commission mechanism, because their task in terms of coordination of systems is completely different. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. In the mode of correcting Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u192	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! That's exactly what I'm talking about. Families are excluded from this program. That's 1,800 grand. Families with one child won't get the money and can't apply. [[Like peas against a wall. You can explain...]] And these people really talk about it and feel excluded from this program. [[It's not a correction. It's polemics.]] And the other thing. The purpose of this programme is to increase the number of births. Young people have no motivation to seek their first child, because first of all, they are in a situation where they need more, they earn less in the labour market, they have less access to work, they have to seek an apartment. They know they won't get that support for their first child. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why, Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u193	Thank you very much, Member. I've allocated a minute, though most of them...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u194	...please also think about these families. [[But that's not a correction.]] When we introduced the kindergarten for the gold, we lowered the fees for everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u195	Please, Madame, I have allocated a minute. You've been out of time, even though most of this wasn't a correction. [[Exactly.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The cost of the programme, the cost of financing in 2016 is 17 billion, in the following year it will be 22,23 billion PLN. This is how much it costs for a program where the benefit is financed for each child - from the second child - to the age of 18. First of all, I'm talking about the opposition, you criticized the whole program as being wrong, and then you offered to fund the first child. Well, I would like to stress that the first child is entitled to an income benefit. Responding to this part concerning the growth of children, absolutely all studies indicate that Polish families, when deciding to give birth to their first child, do not follow their material situation, simply have a child. On the other hand, the decision to increase the number of children in families is linked to a clear concern about the deterioration of the material situation. [[Applause]] We, given that we want to improve childhood by changing the model from 2+1 to 2+2, also taking into account the possibilities of the state budget, have applied this benefit from the second child so that the family does not have to worry about their material situation. For the entire period of the coalition governments, the Family Benefits Act was in force, where the benefit was also applied, which applied much lower than the income criteria I was talking about for this benefit. I told you that 2 million children lost their rights during these 8 years, and the savings of the state budget amounted to PLN 2 billion. We really have made a programme of such important support, which not only, I hope, will improve the material situation of families, but it will improve fertility rates better than we predict in the impact assessment of regulation. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law (prints No 219 and 324). I ask Mr Jan Duda to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the draft amendment to the Hunting Law Act. On 15 January 2016, the Parliamentary draft law amending the Hunting Law Act, print No 219, entered into force. The 12th meeting of the Sejm on 25 February 2016 addressed the joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The Act amending the Law on Hunting Law aims primarily at rationalising the hunting economy and introducing clear rules of responsibility for agricultural damage caused by game hunting in agricultural crops by wild boars, elks, dwarfs, deer and deer. For many years, agricultural environments have been calling for a lack of objective estimation of losses and due compensation for damage caused to agricultural crops. A farmer on the line - a hunting wheel was very often in conflict. Last year, we saw them getting worse: agricultural protests, I will remind you, a green town under KPRM and numerous demonstrations in the field. In response to these problems, following numerous consultations with agricultural organisations and hunting circles, a group of Members presented a bill to resolve damages, including the State Treasury, which owns a free-living game and is responsible for the proper hunting economy. The Act aims to eliminate negative phenomena at the interface between farmers - hunting circles by increasing the involvement of the State Treasury in the process of estimating and eliminating damage caused by game, as well as partially paying compensation. A novelty here is the creation of a State Compensation Fund, which consists of contributions from hunting circles, subsidies from the state budget and other revenue generated for this fund, donations. The damage is estimated and paid according to the area of damage caused by the voivod. This solution is intended to ensure respect for the interests of farmers through arbitrary integration of voivodships into the estimate of damage, as well as financially support hunting circles in terms of their payments, through the State Compensation Fund. Hunting circles from their contributions are not able to cover properly the losses caused by the game due to the very large diversity of the resources of hunting circuits and types of live game. In view of the great merits of the Polish Hunting Union in the field of active conservation of nature, this law is intended to help in the proper arrangement of relations between hunters and farmers, with direct involvement of the State Treasury. The competent territorially responsible agricultural chambers have been included in the compensation process due to the place of injury. It is the agricultural chambers that will keep lists of experts and participate in the assessment of damage at the request of the farmer. On 9 March, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, where a draft law was submitted by the High House, amendments were tabled in the presence of numerous representatives of agricultural organisations. The most important and positive opinions of the joint committees concerned the Article. 1 of the amended law and are related to Article. 46, Art. 49 and Article 49 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 50 Law Hunting, where after art. 46 The following Article is inserted: 46a-46d, and from Article. 2 amended act. The amendments concerning the clarification of the way in which the damage is estimated, the creation of the compensation fund and the final provisions have been positively assessed by the committees together with the project as a whole. On the other hand, amendments concerning: damage caused by hares, changes in time limits for inspection and assessment of damage, differentiation of contribution due to the nature of the circuit - field, forest - increase of contribution in case of over-normative increase in the number of game in the circuit and deletion in Article. Point 6 and Article 1 50b. 7 were not recognised by the committee and were presented as minority requests at the request of the applicants. The report is available in print No 324. Applicants have been and are open to any proposals for changes aimed at the best possible regulation of this important issue - taking into account the interests of farmers and hunters, but also the interests of our national treasure, i.e. wild game. With a view to properly aligning relations in the areas of the oldest economic activity of man, i.e. hunting and agriculture, as well as taking into account the welfare of wild game, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, please adopt a law by the High House amending the Law on Hunting Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law has been worked over by the Joint Committees: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry, Agriculture and Rural Development. The joint committee's report is contained in print No 324. My club, the Law and Justice Club, is currently submitting a package of 9 amendments to the bill, which aims to clarify and clarify the provisions of the amended law. Amendment 1 refers to Amendment 1, i.e. Article. 46 Hunting Law Act. It states that the State Treasury is responsible for the damage caused by wild boars, elks, deer, dwarfs and deer, including in the case of protection for the whole year, while the owner or the manager of the hunting circuit is responsible for the damage caused in the execution of the hunt. The principle is obvious, for such a record will undoubtedly prompt hunters to behave responsibly on the hunt, because they will be the ones who will bear the consequences and be responsible for the damage involved. We propose that requests for inspection and damage assessment should be submitted to the competent voivode, but in view of the convenience that the applicants have claimed, the application may also be submitted to the voivode who is required to pass it to the voivode immediately, but not later than 3 days. In Amendment 2, the following Article is added: 46a-46d. And we also make an amendment to this change, which clarifies the provisions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 46a there are provisions on inspection and assessment of damage: time limits, parties to proceedings, possibility of participation by the representative of the agricultural chamber. We in our amendment propose to shorten the time limit for the inspection from 14 to 7 days from the date of receipt of the application, as well as to introduce a time limit of 5 days for the notification of the participants of the inspection. In turn, in the article. 46b the content of the protocol drawn up after the examination, etc., has also been determined by the right of the party not satisfied with the findings of the protocol as regards the amount of the damage to be presented to the assessor. I think the amendments will be discussed in detail at the committee meeting. Art. 46c, on the other hand, concerns the preparation of a protocol for the examination and assessment of the damage. We propose there a change in the sound of the mouth. 2 and 3 to set a deadline of 7 days for the voivodship to consider objections to the protocol, including the opinion of the assessor. Art. 46d sets out the procedure for determining the amount of compensation, the conditions for reimbursement of the costs of drawing up the expert's opinion, the time limit for payment of the compensation - 30 days - and the conditions for bringing the parties to court. I will not discuss these issues in detail because of the very short speaking time. Amendment 4, to which Amendment 3 is tabled, gives a new wording to the article. 49. It shall include an authorisation for the Minister to issue a regulation setting out the manner and time limits for the declaration of injury, a detailed way of examining and assessing the damage, a detailed way of determining and paying compensation and a model protocol. Newly added article. 49a in turn refers to the scope not regulated by the Code of Administrative Procedure. Amendment 4 proposes amendments to the article. 50 and standardise the system for estimating damages and paying compensation and entrusting them to the voivodeship. Entries of Article. 46 provide for the liability of the State Treasury for any damage to crops and agricultural products caused by wild boars, elks, dwarfs and deer. So it is appropriate that all matters in this area be handled by a single authority - a voivode. Besides, this postulate has evolved in many opinions submitted to the bill. On the other hand, since the funds of the Compensation Fund come mainly from the contributions of the tenants or managers of the hunting circuit, this fund should be covered by the damage done in the areas of the hunting circuit, excluding damage caused by wild boar, elk, deer, dandelions and deer which are covered by the year-round protection. After all, it is not possible to cover damage from the tenants' contributions to hunting circuits, on which they have no impact. Amendments 4 and 5 refer to this problem. Amendment 6 introduces new articles, new regulations in Article. 50a and 50b. Art. 50a contains provisions on the creation of a Compensation Fund, which is a state-owned special-purpose fund. It provides that the detailed rules of the financial economy shall be defined by the Minister responsible for the environment in agreement with the Minister responsible for public finances. In turn, the article. 50b determines the method of calculation and transfer of contributions due to the fund. In Amendment 6, we propose setting the amount of the contribution based on the number of wild game included in the hunting plan, not in proportion to the area of hunting circuits, because this way of calculating them will allow better consideration of the different conditions of the hunting economy in different, less and more resourceful circuits. We're offering you a bet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 600 zł per elk, 350 per deer, 135 per daniel, 105 per deer and 85 per wild boar. Marshal, I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u201	I would very much ask you to stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u202	In our amendments 7, 8 and 9, which should be put to the vote together, we propose that the Act enter into force on 1 January 2017, with the exception of the provisions on lists of experts. By 15 June next year, i.e. by the date of the transfer of the first contributions to the Compensation Fund, the funds of the Fund will come from grants from the state budget. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask you, on behalf of my club, the Law and Justice Club, to accept amendments tabled by my club to the bill of amendment which significantly clarify and arrange its provisions on compensation for hunting damages. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u203	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. And I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the draft law on the modification of Hunting Law. I would like to point out, please, that the parliamentary bill amending the Law on Hunting Law, print No 219, concerns almost exclusively Chapter 9 of the Law on Hunting - Hunting Codes. The Civic Platform Club considers that the proposed changes are heading in the right direction, but are burdened with many errors and therefore amends this draft law on amending the Hunting Law Act. We ask that only the assessor, after properly graduated qualifications, carry out the inspection, respect and evaluation of the damage in the final result. In view of the gravity of the office, the competent authorities of the service, in this case the experts, should be appointed by them in accordance with certain standards, specific provisions which guarantee the performance of tasks on behalf of the voivode in a reliable, professional and official manner. The proposed participation of the representatives of the Agricultural Chambers and the responsibility of the Chairman of the Agricultural Chamber can only be brought here and only to the participation of the members of this Chamber in the team carrying out the inspection and to the assessment of the amount of the damage limited to the assessment of procedures from the formal side but in no case to participate in any assessment or assessment of the damage. The elections to the agricultural chambers took place on 31 May 2015. For less than 3 million eligible farmers, 140 000 took part in the vote. people and overall attendance was 4.34%. At the level of individual regions, voivodships, attendance was: in Małopolska - 1.86% , in Opolskie voivodship - 2,41% , Podlaskie - 2,74% , Silesian - 2,79% , Podkarpackie - 2,87% ,Wielkopolski - 3.3%. These are the data of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers. With all due respect, it is difficult to hold it legally responsible for overseeing the agricultural chambers as regards lists of relevant experts and selection procedures for such representation. The use of a single amount of contributions for the lease of forest and field hunting circuits or the disposal of such circuits is considered a cardinal error, as there are no hunting damage in forest circuits such as in field circuits. Plus, we don't agree... [[But our amendments will solve this problem, Mr President.]] ...with the proposal made in this project for additional fees for non-compliance with the annual hunting plan, without taking into account the mandatory inventory of animals, which, in our opinion, must be carried out and, on the basis of specific figures, determine the size of the animals per square kilometre in accordance with other specific provisions in this respect. Only on the basis of this data can an appropriate annual game plan be developed. The essence and cause of the greatest damage to the cultivation of animals, as referred to in Article. 46 points 1 and 2 shall exceed their respective cast per square kilometre of area. Hence, our amendments in particular propose an increase of 50% in the annual contribution in the event of an overrun of the above mentioned. The casts by the game. Maintaining this should be included in the tenant's obligations as the manager of the hunting circuit. In view of the complexity and difficulty of the amendment of the Hunting Law, we are of the opinion that this law should be amended in stages, in time and in different ranges: firstly, to determine the role and place of the land owner on which the hunting circuits are established; secondly, to consider the introduction of the so-called. common insurance for farmers and managers of hunting circuits in order to reduce the risk of financial liability of the parties; thirdly, on techniques and adaptation to current requirements of coexistence between animals and humans, carrying out hunts of different nature and scope; and fourthly, taking into account elements of the interrelationship of regional management with hunting circles in the field of finance and other matters. I would like to say to you that, as I said at the outset, this project is a bold project, but it is burdened with many mistakes. This project causes the wheels not to go bankrupt, because there is so-called. The Compensation Fund, which is part of the state budget. In the form of a decision, the Voivode gives the right rank of compensation to the minutes. On the other hand, this project is burdened with a mistake. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it is unpredictable until the end of the state budget. This is a difficult element, there are some estimates, but these estimates are too limited. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club will place an amendment on your hands and vote in favour of submitting this report to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Areas. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[It is not possible for him to go to the joint committees other than when the legislative process began.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u205	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law on Hunting Law - print No 219, report of the committee - print No 234. I must admit that, without knowing the amendments tabled by Anna Paluch earlier, I had a number of doubts, which I have already raised from this speaker about the project itself, as its basic version raised huge reservations. In my opinion, it would lead, firstly, to the bankruptcy of weaker hunting circles, those who manage in weaker circuits, and secondly, it would be very harmful to farmers themselves. Or, on the one hand, we would move towards privatisation of circuits, which is very dangerous, because it would actually be very dangerous from an environmental point of view of the management of hunting animals, because very often in the case of private leases, the environment is used to the fullest extent and after the lease is completed. This is happening in the case of water reservoirs. In fact, the lack of this protection that hunters provide for farmers today would cause even greater losses and even greater problems in terms of crop protection. This problem in the relationship between farmers and hunting circles exists for quite a long time and is actually very difficult to solve. On the other hand, I was very pleased to hear today - briefly for now, but hopefully I will have a chance to get to know it thoroughly - the amendments tabled by the Law and Justice Club, because they sort of sort of sort of solve my doubts in some way. First thing and the most important thing. I'm not going to refer to the voivode's estimate of damage, the location of the experts. This is a matter that has been described quite extensively here. I don't have any more doubts. We may wonder if in the case of agricultural chambers it will not be such a shift a little bit in the other direction of this supervision of valuers, but this is a secondary element. On the other hand, the first worrying element was the method of calculating the contribution to this Compensation Fund, which was to be created from the contributions of hunting circles. The calculation of this in relation to the area, i.e. per hectare, provided that no more than 0,1 q rye price, caused the wheels that have low damage, which today have low compensation, to virtually cease to exist because in many cases they would not be able to bear the financial burden of such contributions. The proposal to convert this into a game head, i.e. animals that are included in the game plan, is a much better solution because, first of all, it takes into account in some way the abundance of the environment or the abundance of the hunting circuit, also with the division of species, because it is right here in the amendment to show the distinction between the different species of game, this damage conversion factor, and secondly, it is also appropriate to what these wheels can obtain in the economy. Let's remember that the annual hunting plans aren't a hunting circle or a farmer who can figure that out. This process is also attended by the State Treasury, which owns all wild game. Let us remember that the hunting wheel becomes a buyer, the owner of the game only after firing. In a wild state, this is the property of the State Treasury. In this situation, these hunting wheels will somehow be able to really plan firings and maybe it will be a much more favourable and leverageable condition for financing this Compensation Fund. Of course, there is also this issue of additional addition to this Treasury. I believe that the State Treasury as the owner, which even has hunting plans and all matters related to the hunting economy, is somehow responsible and should also take responsibility for the hunting damage that is being done here. Hunting wheels can't exploit this environment more than enough, and they don't want it to be for good luck. So this inclusion is very important. Will there be funds for this within the Treasury, it is already a secondary issue, but I think you have it somehow calculated here. So that I have to say that the changes, the amendments that have been tabled today, are certainly going in the direction that pleases us, I am personally determined. Of course, we will vote in favour of continuing to process these amendments. Depending on how we get to know them, how they will be adopted and presented, we will establish our position, but for now it seems that these changes are going in a very good direction. We also have a few more ideas for solutions maybe a little bit more, which include other environments or other institutions in these compensations, such as the Polish Association of Hunters or foresight, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we'll probably discuss that later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u208	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present the position of the Modern Posel Club. The creation of the Compensation Fund is, in principle, right, because it is intended to serve farmers. Projectors propose that the annual contribution paid by hunting wheels should depend on the size of the circuit. [[Not anymore.]] It's an amendment, I'm sorry, actually. These amendments gave us great hope, and that's right. I'm improving because the amendments are going in the right direction. In our view, this contribution should also depend on commercial hunting and related income and damage. When the fund operates, the contribution of hunting wheels would be independent of the damage in the hunting area concerned. But I already know that there are adjustments. Thus, hunting wheels with lower incomes would bear the same costs as hunting wheels with significant incomes. The actual share of the State Treasury - this is another case - may be much bigger than the projector estimates. Hunting damage is not evenly distributed throughout the year. During periods of increased hunting damage, in order for estimates to be taken within a certain time limit, it would be necessary to employ a much larger number of voivodeship staff than the designer assumes, due to the number of applications, the time of arrival - sometimes these are very long distances - and the time when the damage is estimated. The costs that the Treasury would bear include not only the salaries of new employees, but also the costs of commuting, the costs of court cases, which do not end in one hearing, the costs of experts' opinions. The proposed amendments do not regulate measures to protect agricultural crops against hunting damage which could reduce them. It would be necessary to clarify and improve the legal standards related to both hunters and farmers' responsibilities. The amendment also lacks provisions to ensure a rational hunting economy. A reliable inventory of wild game is needed because it can be questioned not only by hunters, but also by hunters themselves. Changes are also needed in relation to this element of the hunting economy, such as methods of feeding wild game. The involvement of the State Treasury would be more justified if the law did not provide that the hunting animal after hunting would be owned by the hunter of the hunting circuit in which the animal was hunted, especially since the wild game on the list of the 2005 Minister's Regulation is 31 and compensation is paid for damage caused only by wild boar, elk, deer, dandelions and deer. If the state budget were to be involved in the responsibility of hunters so far, their work should be more transparent for citizens. Data should be available on hunted animals, as well as migratory feathered game, by individual wheels and income from their sale, as well as commercial hunting. The pursuit of the hunting economy is hard to name today as a form of environmental protection, how this should work according to the Act of 13 October 1995, among others. Because of the commercial hunts I mentioned, or the hunting with a tail. Social opposition to hunting, especially commercial hunting, is not based solely on the stories of a few incompetent people who are not aware of the situation. This information often reaches the public through hunters themselves. In the interests of environmental protection, it is difficult to be indifferent to the information that leads to public awareness about hunting. Therefore, rules are important to tighten up the bans on irregularities in hunting. And another case, judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal: Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. 26 of the Act of 13 October 1995 by authorising property to be covered by the regime of the hunting circuit, without providing adequate legal means to protect the rights of the owner of that property, is incompatible with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 in conjunction with Article. Article 64 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Although this sentence has not been put into practice, the construction of Hunting Law should be taken into account. The protection of property rights in a democratic country should also be taken into account in the field of hunting law. Hunters would in this case lease hunting circuits directly from farmers, thus gaining a source of income to help cover hunting damage. At the same time, the standards of a modern, European and democratic state would be maintained. Therefore, we cannot support this project for the time being, even though there are reasonable solutions for hunting compensation. And farmers, and hunters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Yes, sir.]] However, hope brings improvements to the amendment of the law, so we will be wondering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u209	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u210	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As I do not know the amendments, I have no amendments in writing and we have not had the opportunity to read the amendments prepared by my colleagues in PiS, I will refer to the project I know. Several discussions have been held over the last few weeks about hunting damage. The Polish People's Party Club also prepared and submitted a draft law on hunting damage, which was the subject of first reading. What connects these two laws is the co-financing by the State Treasury of compensation for hunting damages. It is strange, however, that the law, which - now I am talking about your law - according to its characteristics is in the competence of the Ministry of the Environment, as we heard in the Committee on the Environment, was consulted and prepared together with the Minister of Agriculture. All the more surprising is the positive opinion of the Minister of the Environment, really hunters in Poland are very surprised by this positive opinion. The paradox of the situation was also the proceding of this law without the participation of all interested parties, and especially the party representing the environment of Polish hunters. The problem of hunting damage has increased recently due to the so-called. the ASF problem with wild game. This increased the damage to agricultural crops. Only thanks to the cooperation of Minister Sawicki, veterinary services and the Polish Łowiecki Union have this dangerous disease been kept in check, within several counties. It is worth considering at this point, and perhaps preparing regulations on how you should react in emergency states, how to compensate for the damage caused by cormorants in fishing farms, how to reduce the losses caused by cranes, beavers, bison and hares in orchards. Who will pay for the damage in urban areas, squares, parks and gardens? The proposed solutions are the establishment of a State Compensation Fund. In this version I know, this is the worst possible solution. Why? Because another bureaucratic creation is being created, which will not only not accelerate the estimation and payment of compensation, but will effectively absorb the collected contributions for salaries, for offices, for cars, for your own needs. This seems to be the most expensive solution possible. The accumulation of damage is summer months, August and September, also October, sometimes April on grasslands. I ask: What will these officials do during the rest of the year? What will be the role of the State Hunting Guard in this situation? The time limits have already been stressed today, but I understand that when it comes to the 14-day deadline for the voivodeship or the absence of a deadline for handing over the proposal to the voivodeship, this issue will already be regulated by the amendments tabled by the PiS... [[Law and Justice.]] ...by Law and Justice, because it would absolutely result in administrative paralysis of compensation payments. With in mind the peripeties related to the estimation by officials of the damage done by wolves and beavers, and for months and months, and often to common court cases, I fear that the situation, when the voivode, the official will deal with the assessment of the damage, may be repeated and may be analogous to the previous one. One official per county will not guarantee the right level and the correct rate of damage estimation. Today, the estimate of damage is more than 5,000. Hunters. From the information I got from the committee, you plan to have 380 officials. Last year we finished 60,000. protocols. Most likely, it was 120,000. proceedings. How will the official apparatus be able to perform tasks in the field of estimation of hunting damages in a cheaper and more objective manner? The Polish People's Party does not support the draft law in this version. However, we believe that the very idea of co-financing damage by the State Treasury is [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the right thing to do. We are making amendments that concern the administrative issues that I have already mentioned, the incentive system for hunting circles that implement hunting plans, as well as pointing out that the law should enter into force on 1 January 2017. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u211	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. We have a few Members to ask. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, the list is closed. Question time - 2 minutes. Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec, the Law and Justice Club, is the first to speak. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr. George Gosievski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Losses in agricultural and forestry crops are gradually increasing. Currently, compensation is paid only for losses in agricultural crops. Minister, shouldn't we consider assessing the damage also in forest crops, where the losses caused by game and game covered by different forms of protection are far more severe for trees and the environment? These are huge material losses. I am convinced that when we start again paying actual compensation for damage to agricultural and forestry crops, then maybe proper respect for hunting circles will return to hunters themselves and the eternal hunting traditions will return. Because it is the hunter who can keep the game on an economically bearable level. One more comment on the bill itself. Shouldn't information about the damage be transmitted immediately to the voivodeship, not through the commune's governor, because this information may die along the way and who will then be responsible for the delays in assessing the damage? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the gym: You're gonna put this in your club's amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u213	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The opposition has repeatedly threatened farmers and hunters with this bill, while both have been eagerly awaiting this bill. I would like to thank the parliamentarians who have engaged in the preparation of this project very warmly. At the same time, I have two questions that concern farmers. The first question: Wouldn't it be advisable to reduce the period of calling from 14 days to shorter periods? This is very important from the point of view of farmers. Should we also consider, in the long term, the possibility of taking into account the damage done by beavers and hares? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u215	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Kostusia, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u216	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During the committee's work on amending the Law on Hunting Law, it was stated that in the previous term of the Sejm there was no way to solve the problem of hunting damage. Indeed, this matter is extremely difficult, and its solution raises problems not only in our legal system, but also throughout Europe. The first problem of this regulation is the provision on the application of the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which will significantly extend the time necessary for the correct assessment of the damage and will prevent the reporting of damage during the assessment already carried out e.g. I'm at a neighbor's. It is difficult to imagine the procedure for notifying the parties, which according to K.p.a. It has to be effective. The question remains, therefore, how the rapporteur will explain to the farmer and to us in the Chamber, that the estimated representative of the voivode will not be able to assess the damage to another farmer in the neighbouring field if he finds damage during the estimation, only in accordance with the Code of Administrative Procedure, he will have to send the notification and wait a dozen days for the revisitor to return. As the rapporteur imagines the implementation of this provision in the light of the opinion of the European Parliament.? Is the assessment undertaken in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure the best solution? Finally, there is one more question - of course, about the costs of the reform. As we all know, the damage is caused and reported not all year round evenly, but usually in the largest number in two periods: spring and summer. It should be taken into account that the estimation of one injury is a time of approx. 3 hours, i.e. one person can estimate a maximum of three damages per day. In the circle where one of the smallest number of reported damage is recorded, there are about 400 damage in the spring or summer period... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Can I finish this, Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u217	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u218	In the circle where one of the smallest number of reported damage is recorded, there are about 400 damage in the spring or summer period within only 2 weeks. So the question arises: How can a voivode estimate 400 damage in 2 weeks? And how much will this reform cost the Treasury? Currently, the damage in Poland estimates more than 5 thousand. people: hunters and foresters. How will the same action be done by 380 people? So the question remains: What are the real costs of assessing the damage in Poland? 100, 200 or 300 million? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u219	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the case of this law, it's true to say that all of a sudden, it's after the devil. Indeed, this project was successfully postponed for two months, and suddenly it turns out that the opposition's views and views of the ruling party are beginning to coincide, as can be seen from the amendments. Very good. Therefore, the amendment that the project should enter into force only from 1 January 2017. That would mean we have some time to process this bill, and I hope we don't have to pass it tomorrow. And very well, because the circumstances that were raised here show that we are able to develop a project that has a chance of success. I'm really glad that my rational idea that this voivode is directly addressed to claims for damage assessment, because it will shorten the time. I hope, my fellow Members, that you are also allowing an electronic version of the proposal at this time. I remember President Telus praising the bike issue, as the farmer always gets to the commune on his bike. It is important to be genuinely open to these solutions and I am very happy about it. I would also ask for openness, I ask for this, I hope that you are open to these solutions which are talking about not attacking the main problem that exists in this area, namely that we have too much game, this cast is too big. We have amendments that seem to be attacking this problem. I hope that you will indeed also be open to see if there is a chance in this project to attack this fundamental problem that we have with hunting damage, i.e. such that game hunting is simply too much, and hunting circles must make every effort to limit the population. Thank you very much. I am really looking forward to a good and substantive discussion, and I hope that we do not adopt tomorrow. [[At the next meeting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Suski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker touched on the subject I want to talk about, because the fact that we have to pay compensation is obvious. Damages are caused by overpopulation of animals. Indeed, with this amendment, we have probably spent little time thinking about why the number of wild game is so dramatically different from that recommended. Doesn't the Polish Hunter Union do its job properly? Are hunting plans too limited? Do hunters themselves, as a result, refuse to carry out these tasks or gain prey, as hunters say? Because they don't kill animals, they get them. High Izbo! Unfortunately, there's no one in the government who can be asked what questions they're going to take... [[What do you mean? You're the minister.]] Is it? I'm sorry, I didn't mature the Minister. So I would also like to address the question to the Minister: Is he able to make another amendment, because this House will undoubtedly deal with the Hunting Law at least once more, to exhaust, for example, the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling on the protection of property rights... On this occasion, there may be an opportunity for us to talk about the causes of overpopulation of wild game, because I would like to stress here an important point, namely whether it is worth considering a ban or a restriction on animal feeding. We've developed certain habits in this way. We've given you some kind of ready-made karma, wild boars are used to potatoes, corn. That way this population won't be able to... The Polish Hunting Union has a serious problem in order to actually reduce the population of wild game, keep it at the right level, so that we do not, as a result, pay too much compensation. Therefore, I am asking the Minister this question: will we, as a result, consider, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the Minister consider limiting the possibility of feeding wild game so freely? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u223	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u224	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a few questions. First of all, how do you want to ensure that the law is enforceable in a personal context? Like I said, today's 5,000. Hunters, foresters estimate damage, and according to your estimates there are 380 officials. Is this even a real way, in your opinion, or is it even a real possibility to estimate damage? Remember, there may be several hundred damage at the time of the culmination of damage in one county. It seems to me that it will be very difficult to carry out these tasks properly. What costs do you provide for the state budget in connection with this law? What is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, that's understandable. Will the hunter in any way participate in the estimation process itself? Will he have knowledge of where the damage occurred? And what if the deadline is exceeded by the voivodeship official, by the person who estimates? The deadline will be incomplete, the farmer will have to leave the field and it will indeed be difficult to estimate the value of the damage. Do you foresee that these damages will then be estimated on the basis of farmers' statements? How are you gonna solve this case? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u225	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u226	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I would like to ask the Minister a question. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of references to the Minister of the Environment in these procedures for dealing with certain specific issues by means of regulations. There are several cases, among others. on the basis of the provisions of Article. 49 is a reference to the regulation by the Minister responsible for the environment, in agreement with the Minister responsible for agriculture, of specific procedures for the estimation of hunting damage. Hence my - maybe of a general nature, but still - question to the Minister. How far should it go to regulate the detailed question, namely this procedure, the procedure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u227	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr!]] [[Voice from the room: Zbyszek!]] Mr President, we would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Animals walking slowly is a beautiful wealth of our country. But one good thing should not do evil to another, in this case, to a farmer. It can't be that those who charge pay at the same time. This is wrong. In this bill it will be changed. In the legislation, I think - and here I am asking the applicant - it should be, and it is not clearly visible, marked by symbiotic cooperation, its necessity, between farmers and hunters, so that the goal is achieved. And the goal is that we still have a beautiful, beautiful game and a fairly satisfied farmer. That's the goal, and that's what we're going to achieve. As I said, our parliament has not yet been able to achieve this because they wanted to do everything together. Earlier, I had the pleasure of discussing the position of my club. This bill must be divided into some parts that we will find right in the joint committees, and among others. these kinds of things must be contained there. We should also consider the issue of animals that are protected - I am talking about beavers, other animals. That must be settled, too. as a committee, because an agricultural producer, where costs, per hectare are very high today, is not really interested in what kind of game - whether protected or slow running - has caused these damage. These are the elements we need to consider. I'll tell you from the heart, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am pleased that the ruling coalition takes into account the conclusions, the demands of the opposition. I think it's a good omen for further laws. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: This is a good moment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u229	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question concerns the damage caused by hunting animals, such as wild boars, elks, deer, dwarfs, deer, urban areas and even large cities. It is specifically about my city, Rzeszów, the voivodeship city, mainly about damage done in the area of gardens, often grown by people who are not wealthy, pensioners. According to Art. 50 Law Hunting Law The Treasury is responsible for damage caused by hunting animals in areas not forming part of hunting circuits. Can it therefore be considered that the State Treasury is responsible for the damage done by the game in the home gardens, organised gardens, lawns or cloms? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u231	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Leszek Galemba, the Law and Justice Club. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Will the people who will be appointed by the voivode to estimate the damage be able to keep the deadline resulting from the regulation, or 7 days? As we know, today we have $2.5,000. Hunting wheels. They were the fastest in the field - the farmer could have had compensation paid within 7 days. It even happened in three days, because it is really necessary to decide whether to plow this crop again and plant something new or leave it in the condition in which it was destroyed. Is it not possible for a farmer to extend the period during which he may receive compensation, in particular when one of the parties cancels? And shouldn't we also set the rates for the destruction of a given crop in a given calendar year so that we can have some predictions and forks? The question is how to estimate it and how much compensation we can pay to farmers in a given year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. I would like the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Minister Andrzej Nebile. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already had the opportunity to talk about this during the first reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on Hunting Law, this project undoubtedly meets the demands of the agricultural environment related to the growing problem of hunting damages in recent years. Therefore, the proposed solutions to improve the compensation system for hunting damages deserve support. At the same time, as I have already had the opportunity to mention, the proposal requires a number of amendments necessary to ensure the smooth and effective implementation of the proposed system solutions. Part of the necessary amendments were introduced during the examination of the project on 9 March 2016 by the Joint Committees for the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and Agriculture and Rural Development. However, during the committee's work, all the changes needed to ensure that the proposed solution is implemented quickly and effectively were not made. I therefore fully support the amendments tabled in the context of the second reading by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. First of all, this regulation should enter into force at the earliest at the beginning of next year, so that it is possible both to raise funds for the planned compensation payments and to create appropriate structures within the voivodship offices to carry out the new tasks imposed on these entities. It is also necessary to exclude, which is very important, the responsibility of the State Treasury for the damage done in the pursuit of hunting, for which sole responsibility must be borne by the tenants and managers of hunting circuits. I also fully support the proposals for an amendment on how to set contributions to the Compensation Fund. This is a proposal that better protects the liquidity of the tenants and managers of the hunting circuit and thus provides greater certainty and stability of the proceeds to the fund, thus better safeguarding the interests of farmers and the Treasury. I also agree with the proposals for legislative and editorial amendments not only to ensure the correctness and transparency of the regulation, but above all to ensure consistency of the system and the new procedure. I would like to stress that, in my view, the amendments tabled to the parliamentary draft by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice are necessary to ensure the smooth implementation of new solutions for the benefit of the farmers affected. In answer to Mr Suski's question - it is inevitable at the moment, and very quickly, the task of fulfilling, as has been said here, in this Chamber, the provisions on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, and this is a matter that we will probably be dealing with in the near future here. There was a question of overpopulation of wild game in the Member's question. This is true, in the last 15 and 20 years, for example, the wild boar population has reached an incredible level, precisely according to the yearbook of the CSO it is 284 thousand, but you can use the number of 300 thousand. individuals, because you know, this is nature and inventory is also carried out on the basis of certain principles of population estimation. With regard to the issue of feeding - in the current Hunting Law of 1995 we have a record that the manager or tenant is feeding, and therefore there is a kind of imperative of feeding the game. It is expected that this should be an optional form: it can be fed. I think in this direction... This is important and raised by many different organisations, including NGOs, and we are listening to this and, of course, we will be working together here in this House. The question, I understand, also addressed to the Ministry, is to regulate detailed procedures for estimation of hunting damage - how far. To the extent necessary, after agreement, as is apparent from the amendment tabled, with the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, because he has an important voice here. All crops, agricultural land and management of these areas are the domain of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, so, according to the scope of the delegation, once agreed with the Minister of Agriculture, after an in-depth examination of the amendments tabled, we will carry out this task with great pleasure and due attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u235	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite the representative of the applicants of Mr Robert Telus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! I answer the questions that were addressed to me and, above all, it was one group of questions, technical. In accordance with the rules in force, if this law starts to apply, will the voivodeships or committees manage to assess the damage? I do not hide that this is also our concern as applicants, whether we can estimate these damages. But I want to point out one thing: there are 380 new jobs. That doesn't mean that it's 380 people, it's about the money for 380 jobs. It is during these periods, when they are estimated, because in winter estimates are almost gone, only they are later in spring and by autumn, the voivodships will be able to hire more people so that they will simply have enough of the funds that are intended for these estimates. So I'm hoping we can sort this out, estimate the damage. That was the biggest problem, ladies and gentlemen. After all, we all know that this was the biggest problem, that hunters themselves estimated the damage for which compensation was later paid, were judges in their own case. And that was the situation that had to be solved. I hope this bill will do the trick. And I hope that this will benefit everyone, for all groups, especially farmers, but also hunters. I would like to thank you very warmly, Your Marshal, my fellow Members, for their good and substantive cooperation on this project, which is so typically substantive, without any policy. It was obvious that everyone wanted to do this thing, to do it well, and that's why our amendments are here. I thank the Members who have prepared the amendments, Mrs, the Ministry, because these amendments are amendments in the right direction. I also have to admit that I'm guilty myself. If we went towards area contributions in hunting circles, it would certainly be to the detriment of poor hunting circles. This is the issue that they have pointed out to us, i.e. They noticed and gave us, mostly hunting wheels, but I agree that it would be a mistake. So that I think that these amendments, which are prepared, which are complex, are going in the right direction, but above all, what has already been emphasized here, satisfy all sides of this conflict, the problem, and that is perhaps the most important one. Therefore, at this point in time, at second reading, I cordially thank everyone for their substantive work. I hope that in the committee, and in the third reading, and in the next sitting, because he has pointed out several times that tomorrow we will not vote, we will pass this law, we will go through the third reading, and it will be a good law which will serve primarily farmers, but will also be accepted by hunting wheels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Duda also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Most of the questions, including those addressed to me, were answered here, so I won't dwell on it or repeat it. On the other hand, attention should be paid - here Mrs Pasławska from the Polish People's Party spoke about it - on this objectivity. It's a very simple matter. We assume that in cases such as assessment of damage, we cannot be a judge in our own case, which means we solve this unpleasant matter when a hunter has to get along with a farmer directly in some way and sometimes there are unnecessary situations. There's a voivode, there's an arbiter who decides that. But there were questions about beaver, hare, bison. As far as hares are concerned, no compensation has ever been paid for hares. [[In the orchards.]] The hares cause damage primarily in fruit crops. As the orchards started to be established in Poland, the orchards were always bogged down. There's no way we're gonna be paying compensation for hares, because the damage caused, for example. The hares are so big that we're not, we wouldn't be able to pay those compensations. Speaking of court that's planted, it's not just about destroying a tree. There is also a second point. Here's what I'm gonna say: last time I saw a hare was two or three years ago. [[Exactly.]] The hare just doesn't exist. [[The foxes have multiplied.]] The hare just doesn't exist. [[There are inductions in Greater Poland.]] Perhaps in other regions of the country yes. However, as far as beavers are concerned, yes, beavers are indeed a serious plague, but this is regulated by another law, the Nature Conservation Act. Beavers are protected animals. I'll say that in the 1980s, the 90s of the last century, the beaver's rebirth actually had such an effect that we have plenty of beavers. But that's a different bill. This is something that we need to consider when working on a completely different law, namely the Nature Conservation Act, and on animals that are protected. Are there enough officials? This is what you have responded to before me. City damage. There's damage in cities, there's probably damage on the lawns, there's damage in the gardens. If we were standing here talking about where the damage might still be, it'd probably be a whole lot of litany. We have to decide something. We are talking, above all, about damage to agricultural crops. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! From the point of view of the public interest, it is appropriate to amend the Hunting Law in such a way that it protects the interests of both the owners or holders of agricultural land and the tenants or managers of hunting circuits. This bill provides such protection, but I would like to ask you to clarify a number of important points in writing by the Minister from the speaker. Is the possibility laid down in the law to bring an action before the competent court by the parties concerned a form of appeal against the administrative decision of the voivode? If so, what powers, in particular with regard to the amendment or repeal of the abovementioned decision, will such a court have? Is the decision of the voivode referred to in the draft Article. 46d paragraph. 1, is subject to appeal before the administrative court? Why is it that the provisions of the bill do not contain far-reaching procedural guarantees in proceedings before the voivodship required in a situation where only the voivode, by means of an administrative decision, determines the amount of compensation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u241	Since, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swine Porba Water Tank (prints Nos 427 and 458). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u242	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry carried out work on the draft law on the completion of the Świnna Poręba Water Tank addressed to it at the 17th meeting of the Parliament. The Commission's report dated 28 April this year is contained in print No 458. In the course of the committee's work, the draft amendments are primarily editorial and legislative in nature. I'm moving on to a detailed presentation. Art. 1 contains the entry: The Act sets out the rules for completing the construction of the Swine Porba Water Tank, hereinafter referred to as 'Tank'. The provisions of the Act concern not only the financing rules, as it was originally defined, but all... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u243	I ask Members to remain calm because we are disturbing the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u244	...the rules for completing the construction of the tank. Art. 2 is replaced by the following:.The completion of the construction of the vessel is financed in 2016-2017. As proposed by the legislators, the committee adopted after the article. Article 2 2a. Once the numbering of editorial units has been harmonised, it is now an article. 3, including an indication of the tasks to be carried out after the adoption of the bill discussed here. Added article. 3 is therefore replaced by the following: s As part of the completion of the construction, the Tank shall be carried out with the following tasks: 1) Tank; 2. reconstruction of roads; 3) countering landslides and eliminating their effects on the environment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3, currently Art. 4, the committee has made a minor editorial amendment to paragraph 4. 1 in points 1 and 2, the joint part is excluded and paragraph 1 is excluded. 2 is replaced by the following:.The completion of the construction of the Tank is financed by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, except that the implementation of the task referred to in Article. Point 3 shall be financed by the appropriations for this purpose in accordance with Article. 401c. 2 point 2 of the Act of 27 April 2001 on environmental protection, and on the publication address. Art. 4, currently after the amendment of the numbering of Article. 5, is replaced by the following:.The completion of the construction of the Tank is ensured by the Regional Water Management Board in Krakow. Art. 5, currently Art. It was also adopted with editorial and legislative comments in paragraph 6. 2. The text of the current provision of paragraph 1. The measures referred to in paragraph 2 shall be read as follows: 1 shall be transferred on the basis of an agreement concluded by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management with the entity referred to in Article. 5. - i.e. with the Regional Management Board of Water Management in Krakow - for the separate account of this entity, hereinafter referred to as the 'account'. Art. 6 and 7 didn't change the sound, only numbering, now it's an article. 7 and 8. The title and name of the task III have been amended in the Annex to the Act. This title is currently:.Planned financial expenditure (in thousands. zł) to complete the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank, broken down by tasks and years of their completion. And accordingly, as in the article. 3, renamed task III. The changes made, let us stress, are legislative and editorial in nature. The entire report in print No 458 of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry adopted 18 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. High Izbo! The location of public-purpose investments concerning water reservoirs with flood prevention and retention functions is the necessity for many people living in the municipalities of Mucharz, Stryszów and Zembrzyce to change their place of residence, to leave the old and build new houses. Some local companies had to move to new homes as well. These municipalities, such as Mucharz, Stryszów and Zembrzyce, had in turn to carry out the reconstruction of roads, water and sewage infrastructure, educational infrastructure, in connection with this large investment in the construction of the reservoir, had to make changes in public space and very, very many other investments. The Law and Justice Government wants to finish the construction of the Swine Porba Water Tank as soon as possible, so that the local community no longer suffers the negative effects of the ongoing construction - I remind you that it is the 30th anniversary of the start of this public task - so that the local community does not suffer any negative effects, but can finally see that the reservoir, i.e. the investment carried out this measure, is also a tourist attraction and a resting place that has a positive impact on local development, that it is a magnet that attracts visitors, that it not only provides safety in the upper Vistula basin, but in a fundamental way makes the tourist and leisure offer of the Zadowice district and the entire Małopolska region attractive. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I would like to ask you to adopt the draft law in print No.458, in the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swinna Poręba Water Tank. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u245	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Law and Justice, I am acting with regard to the parliamentary draft law on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba Water Tank. We have a screeching reality and a question about the 30-year construction of the dam. How much longer? I'll answer that. The preliminary prepared in the bill gives us the assurance that eventually the investment, very important and with a very long history, will finally see the end. This is a good solution for everyone. Optimists claim that construction has been underway since 1986. Pessimists mention and indicate that the first project was created in the 1950s. 20th century Today, in 2016, more money has to be spent to complete the investment. On 10 October 2015, in the pre-election period, the Civic Platform and the PSL put the tank into service. I heard he needed some adjustments, that's all. Meanwhile, these corrections will cost about 50 million, including removals which can certainly not be included in corrections and minor items. It is an urgent matter, because I will remind you: the reservoir is located between Wadowice and Sucha Beskidzka, guarantees the inhabitants of Małopolska safety in the event of flooding, while continuous danger of flood safety and comfort of life significantly reduces. As important as this is, it showed a flood in 2010. Therefore, do not underestimate and wait until the next one. The completion of the investment is in the interests of all of us. The question arises: When can we expect a decision on financing and final completion of the investment? I'll answer that. This time, the Government of Law and Justice will see to it that the end date is so embarrassing and embarrassing for the predecessors of the investment. I would like to point out that in Poland there are still several such cases which are causing delay and lack of responsibility for the state of the previous authority. Finally, the inhabitants of Małopolska and the whole of Poland will be able to gain a recreational area, which also generates new jobs. Poles are looking forward to a good change, which is guaranteed only now by the new power - the Government of Law and Justice and Prime Minister Beata Szydło. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u247	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Owowa, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Anna Paluch, the committee's rapporteur, the applicant, talked about a decent job on the committee. I would like to confirm that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law. It is true that it is the 30th anniversary of the start of the construction of this investment, but it was built in the Polish People's Republic. [[Not in the Polish People's Republic.]] There were noisy announcements, there were noisy plans, big projects being announced... [[Mr President, I will repeat everything I said in my first reading.]] ...and were left completely unfulfilled. Since 2006, more than PLN 1600 million have been allocated to this investment and the truth is simply that this investment has been carried out in a technical sense, as Minister Gajda at the last meeting, when the project was carried out, confirmed clearly. A few elements have been completed that haven't been completed last year, and that's just what you have to do. During the election campaign, you said that the necessary needs were PLN 70 million. The bill contains an amount of PLN 53 million. And it seems to me that you have forgotten one important project that has been omitted - and I have all the correspondence with the commune of Stryszów - one way has been omitted, namely the road Łękęwica-Zagorze, which was completely scattered during the construction of this investment, practically today does not meet any parameters so that it can be used calmly. You just need to rebuild this road. All other projects have been included in this project, and this one way - I have here the correspondence of the investor, which confirms and says that once the funds have been raised, this path will be realized - it has been omitted. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club makes an appropriate request to increase the investment limit in 2016 by an amount of 3100 thousand. PLN for the modernization of the Łękawica-Zagorze road with a length of 1300 m, as well as for the location of the tarmac in the beach of Rzwawka, the value of the investment - 100,000. zł. This road was realized by the investor in 2013 and was then divided into two stages. The first pavement was made, at the moment you have to put a bituminous cap on. And then we will be able to enjoy the fact that this investment will be able to fully serve the inhabitants, not only when it comes to protection against the flooding of Krakow, Małopolska, not only when it comes to the development of tourism, because I will remind you that it will be the largest water reservoir... [[Water reservoirs are by nature water, sir.]] Aquarium. ...on the territory of our voivodship, to which over 13 million tourists arrive each year. It is also a question of renewable energy or proper fishing management. Once again, I confirm: Members of the Civic Platform will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u249	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just don't know what to say, Mr Owl. [[What?]] The Polish People's Republic ended in 1989 and you applied the construction methods of the power plant by 2016. [[We've only ruled for eight years.]] I'm just built up by your insight, the fact that you're modeling, you're using these patterns. It's amazing to me. Ladies and gentlemen, I would of course like to stress what Mr Marek Owa said, that during the procedure, both in plenary and in the committees, there was exceptional conformity, unanimity on the completion of the construction of the Swine Poręba reservoir. Nevertheless, I fear that this unanimity has often been the result of a feeling of guilt for many years of neglect on this issue. [[Yes, sir.]] Moreover, I fear that this investment is still being treated politically. Unfortunately, I once said that PiS mimics PO and PSL here, but even more so. Today I can also recall certain facts about the tank. As we remember, MPs of the PO and PSL, then the candidates, they arranged for the bowls of the electoral rally. It ended, as you know, with a flap. From this flap we should learn a lesson, a lesson, and not treat the construction of this reservoir in a political way. Unfortunately, I fear that there may be little funding to finance all the tasks planned for the construction of the vessel. Unfortunately, some of them were not included in the agreements concluded between state authorities and local authorities. The local authorities were promised, as were the residents, that these investments would be carried out. It was often done only to please the local authorities and to silence the inhabitants. Although power has changed, these needs remain. All the roads that have been destroyed, necessary in connection with the location of the communication vessel, must be rebuilt and built. They're needed. The Act consists of itself and an annex which is an immanent part of it. The Annex provides for specific tasks for which the appropriations are to be made. However, they do not provide for those tasks which were included in the implementation plan as a result of the agreement between local authorities and the main investor, i.e. the Regional Water Management Board, which, in fact, represented the State in this regard, but took these initiatives on its own. Nevertheless, as I said, these tasks must be carried out. It would be good for these projects to be financed from undoubtedly constantly remaining funds after the tenders. We all know that these will be and should not be returned to the state budget, because the State will not do without them, because they are already expected to be fully spent, not any savings. Finally, one more important thing. Yesterday, PiS proposed to the Sejm to listen to the so-called. an audit which is the balance sheet mainly of negligence in many areas of the functioning of the state after the governments of PO and PSL. This is an alarming balance, but the question remains open now as to whether the conclusions will be drawn from it, as should the lessons drawn from the appalling negligence or even pathology, in the construction of the reservoir in Świnna Poręba. I hope that Minister Mariusz Gajda, who is responsible for water management at the Ministry of the Environment, will check the accuracy of the investor's activities and their purpose on the basis of the materials provided to him. In many cases, it is reasonable to suspect a criminal offence in the execution of the investment. I talked about many such issues at the previous meeting of the Sejm: about the failure of a substitute investor to carry out this investment, i.e. the Regional Water Management Board in Krakow, the relevant documentation concerning the stabilization of landslides, the waste of documentation concerning the recreational use of areas around the reservoir, the uncertainty about the export of land from the bottom of the tank and other materials obtained during its deepening and levelling, about a fully functioning sewage treatment plant, then demolished. Today I'm going to add another case that needs to be properly explained. This is the issue of flood protection of the facility, which was first considered unsuitable for use due to the technical condition of the child's house, so in practice intended for demolition, and then was restored and protected against flooding at the cost of at least a dozen million zlotys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These cases need to be clarified. Nevertheless, I confirm once again that Kukiz15 will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Allow me to present the position of the Modern Club when it comes to the bill. I think that no one in this Chamber, especially as the group of Members today is so few, there is no doubt that this law should be supported. 30 years we are waiting to complete the construction of the Swine Poręba tank and we could quote here the words: Finish your vase, save your shame. Indeed, it is a shame that such an object is built in Poland for 30 years. I do not want to decide at the moment which government, during which period it did not lead to the completion of this construction, but it is good that such an initiative has been taken. This tank is needed both for the Małopolskie voivodship and for the Silesian voivodship. It should actually be used as flood protection, give the possibility to irrigate fields in a drought situation, but it should also be used as an attractive tourist destination. It seems that when it is flooded, it will be a really big tourist attraction, which in turn can translate into the fact that various tourist facilities, agrotourism farms, will be built around this reservoir. The people who live around him will be able to run their new businesses. The question is, did it take a bill to finish this construction? In my view, this was unnecessary because, as I said from this speaker, this money, this 54 million, could be added to the national environmental fund as part of the work on the budget. Then this money, let's say, not under a special law could be used to complete this construction. There would be no more propaganda effect, let's say, that really after all these years a good change came and the construction was completed after 30 years. That's okay, that's okay. The important thing is that we're all in agreement to do it. As a Krakow resident, I will say that once this construction, although it was not completed, saved Kraków to a large extent, because in 2010, when the water level on the Vistula Vistula near Wawel had actually reached the maximum, part of the water accepted this unfinished tank and so for a good cause it lowered the water mirror in Krakow by several dozen centimeters. Ultimately, hydrologists assume that the smooth functioning of the tank can lead to a reduction in the water mirror in Krakow during flooding by 75 cm. This is really a lot, also because we can imagine - after experience when Wrocław was flooded - what would happen if Krakow flooded. High Izbo, I'm asking for a vote. I'm sure the Modern Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u253	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Urszula Pasławska has submitted her opinion in writing. Two Members joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Sylwester Khrushch, Kukiz15. Two minutes to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During this debate, I was asked a few questions, including in consultation with specialists. I wanted to ask government representatives. There's already been a dry riot. Now we know, we all agree that this investment needs to be closed, we all agree that this investment needs to be completed, but we are also spending resources, for example. For the riots. Now my question is, are we doing this right now, doing this? Shouldn't we push them back in time? Are there gonna be more riots? Why? Because I wouldn't want to see another three to four years from now, in the next audits on the governance of this period, someone told us that we agreed to waste budgetary resources on this kind of action. And second question. I would like to ask: If we spend funds on finishing construction, hydrological things, is the electricity infrastructure around the tank, i.e. energy transmissions, transformers and other things, finished, or are these other budgets? Should we also be preparing budget reserves here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u255	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Polak, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u256	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I often go to the dam because it's both my region and my constituency. And I have to say, it's a beautiful, powerful and wonderful investment, and really, believe me, it's very impressive. Taking advantage of the opportunity that I am standing by the voice, I encourage all ladies and all Members to visit this investment personally, because there is something to see. But that's not what I wanted to say. I just wanted to ask the Minister one brief question. I would like to ask if, in the Minister's opinion, the total amount contained in this project is final and will allow this task to be completed 100% whether there is a possibility that there will be other unforeseen expenditures in this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Minister Andrzej Nebula. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first of all like to express my sincere thanks to the High House especially for its rational, concerted approach to this facility. It is an object, just as the speech was here, built for many years. Let us hope that it will be an object - in a sense it already is - which will serve well and fulfil the functions it has provided in its documentation. In the parliamentary bill on completion of the construction of the Swinna Poręba Water Tank, which is very important, only the objects determining the level of the tank were balanced, so that according to the timetable of spending planned expenditures for years of implementation - in fact this is a percentage of this amount - the vast majority, over PLN 46.5 million, will be to be realized in 2016. The amount of less than PLN 7 million for the implementation of the third task, i.e. countering landslides, eliminating their environmental effects, is planned for 2017. We are counting, assuming and predicting, because this is what the practice shows, that as far as this budget is concerned, there will probably be some savings that could arise in the process of resolving, proceding procedures, public procurement, so it will be possible to finance some of the tasks, such as for example. the road that was rebuilt in the town of Rzwawy. It was improved as part of the construction of the tank, due to the construction of the railway line. It is a road with a rough surface, hardened, a road in better quality, technical condition, with better parameters than before, before this event. This road is an access to four farms. The bituminous surface on this facility requires about 100,000. zł. The estimated cost of the road Łękawica - Zagórze is approx. PLN 10 million, including the location of the surface will be PLN 3 million. This road is, you can say, quite troubling - it is very narrow, located in the ravine, in difficult terrain, and above all, what is important, there is no technical documentation. Thus, an attempt at describing the subject-matter of the contract is not possible this year due to the lack of technical documentation, even assuming that there will be savings on tenders. This is a dangerous road in its course, because in several places there are narrowings that hinder the passing of two cars, and what is important, the execution of this road does not determine the beginning of the floor. When it comes to the question of whether a start has to be done now, the wet start will yet be, but yes, it should be done because the power plant has to be started. Is the electricity infrastructure prepared? I'm positive here, too. According to this information, which was given to me because I represent Minister Mariusz Gajda, everything has been done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u259	Thank you very much. I invite the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Anna Paluch. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the questions that have been raised here, I will try to further clarify some of the answers. Namely, Mr Owl raised the issue of expenditure and blame for the delays arising in the implementation of this long, 30-year investment he rather dropped in time for deep communism. Mr President, let me remind you that expenditure of 65% was made in 2006 the amounts laid down in the Finishing Act, and in 2007 this was 82% the expenses assumed. On the other hand, when the government that you represent and identify with came to power, i.e. the PO-PSL government, in 2008 36.5% were carried out. , and in 2009 31.5% expenditure under the multiannual programme. Then your colleague, then Minister, lately submitted a bill in 2011 which was to extend the non-binding and already legally dead implementation of the Construction Act and extended it for the following years. And again there were problems with spending, because in 2011 61% was spent , 2012 - 34%, 2013 - 79% the amounts assumed. So I'm not gonna specialize here anymore, and I'm gonna bully you. In short, the fault for delays lies mainly with your colleagues. Now I'm going to talk about the other issues that have been raised here. As for the route Łękawica - Zagóra, which the municipality of Stryszów is proposing, Minister Necessary has already made clear what problems there are. First, you have to make documentation, estimate the amounts and ensure that, as I say, the road lane, the municipality of which should own, if it asks for this road to be carried out. On the other hand, with regard to Mr Meysztowicz's question as to whether it was necessary to do a bill or whether it would not be enough to add it to the budget law, I would like to say that the Member could not be done in this way, because please note that in the Environmental Law it is clear what money from the national environmental fund can be spent on. If you follow up on the tasks that are included in this bill, it's clearly defined there, at least part of the task concerns... The second task concerns the reconstruction of roads. The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management cannot spend money on road construction and it had to be done with such a bill. It couldn't have been done the way you proposed. I think I've answered all the questions and doubts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u261	Thank you very much, Member. [[Mrs. Marshal! As a correction.]] As I understand it, Mr Owl has been corrected. [[Yes.]] You're welcome, but you're welcome to make that right.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u262	First line. I would like to say very clearly that the regional water management board has initialized a contract for the Łęczyca - Zagóra road with a length of 1300 m... [[Glove, sir, Glove.]] ... Glove - Zagórze with a length of 1300 m. The cost estimate from 2014 determined the value of 2560 thousand. PLN and a reserve of PLN 3 million was to be provided. On this basis I base my statement, on this is the basis of his correspondence of the Commune of Stryszów. That's one thing. Secondly, Mrs Beskidzka should know very well that the construction of the tank has not really been ongoing in recent years, but that work has been carried out in the translation of the railway line Skawina - Sucha Beskidzka, which has consumed more than 350 million PLN, and that work has been carried out in the translation of the national road No 28 and other roads, which have also consumed more than 300 million PLN. These were the biggest costs incurred with this investment in recent years. The tank itself advanced as a tank was much earlier. As you know, in 2010 it fully worked out and brought us the benefit that everyone has already spoken about, but the lack of preparation of these investments has led to the fact that, first, they had to be prepared, second, they had to be implemented. Today, all these investments are already being realised. There is no point in arguing about percentages, the facts are that the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has allocated over PLN 1200 million to these investments during the last 8 years of government. You will be honoured to open this tank with only PLN 50 million added. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u263	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u264	The Swine Poręba reservoir is built in Małopolska on the River Skawa, which is a tributary of the Vistula River. It will have a capacity of 161 million m3 and a maximum area of 1035 ha. The maximum height of the dam is 54 m, its length is 604 m. Construction is the longest conducted investment in Poland. It has been in progress since 1986. The tank will perform flood protection and retention functions, among others. for Wadowice and Cracow, and at the same time water reservoir for municipal and industrial purposes in the Silesian Voivodeship. Although the investment is still unfinished, during the floods in 2010 thanks to it the flood wave on the Vistula Vistula in Krakow was about 0.5 m lower and the water did not cross the Dębnicki bridge. The money for the implementation will come from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and the completion of the construction will rest on the shoulders of the Regional Water Management Board in Krakow. So far, the construction cost more than PLN 2.2 billion. The planned total investment cost is to close to PLN 2.3 billion. It takes about 70 million more to finish it. The PSL Club supports the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u265	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the Public Finance Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws (prints No 367 and 464). I ask Mr Jerzy Gosievski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u266	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, the original print No 367. As a result of the long-term work of the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system, a document was drawn up on 28 April 2016 by the Committee on Public Finance on behalf of which I present the report in print No 464. The main objective of the proposed amendment is to introduce a tax avoidance clause in Polish legislation. The avoidance of taxation by some multinational corporations causes losses to the state budget. It is worth noting that these corporations, like their competitors operating only in the country, benefit equally from various public goods and services at their place of business. The avoidance of taxation by multinational corporations is a burden on the state budget and at the same time increases inequality. National companies have so far been put in a worse position. The tax collection audit presented by NIK at one of the meetings of the Public Finance Commission showed that the sums that were taken out of the country were many tens of billions of zlotys. The absence of a tax avoidance clause so far is an obstacle to ensuring the integrity of the Polish tax system. For introducing a tax avoidance clause in the Polish legal order, in accordance with Article. 84 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland speaks about the special protection of constitutional principles of tax justice, the universality of taxation and the protection of fiscal balance and the sustainability of public finances. The introduction of this clause should effectively discourage taxpayers from applying tax avoidance practices. The clause introduced will apply if measures with the characteristics of aggressive tax optimization result in a tax advantage exceeding 100 000. zł. The draft law provides for the creation of a Tax Avoidance Council which, as an independent opinion panel, will enhance predictability and a balanced way of applying the clause in individual cases. The scope of the proposed amendments is covered by the Law of 29 August 1997. Tax Order, Law of 30 August 2002. Law of the Court of Justice and the Law of 11 March 2004 on tax on goods and services. During the work of the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system, a number of amendments were tabled, a significant part of which was accepted in the subcommittee report and later in the committee. Amendments accepted by adding point 4a in Article 367 in print. 1, point 3 in Article. 3 and the new wording of the article. 7, the subcommittee considered it necessary because their adoption is an additional solution, which will further contribute to the sealing of the VAT system, which is particularly vulnerable to fraud. In the committee's report, in print No 464, these amendments are now: adding point 5 in Article. 1, point 2 in Article. 3 and amendment of the wording of Article. 9. Amendment in Article 1 consists of the imposition, as from 1 July 2016, of an obligation on large taxable persons keeping accounts using a computer to send by electronic means a single control file on VAT records, which has already been published on the website of the Ministry of Finance. In the amendments included in the committee's report, which are contained in the article. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] shall apply mutatis mutandis. 9, it is proposed that from 1 January 2017, taxpayers should submit the above mentioned. a single control file supplemented by the tax identification number of the counterparties. From 1 January 2018, the obligation to send monthly electronic information on the VAT records would already cover all active VAT taxable persons. An interface software will be used to transfer files containing data, which will also support the transfer of single control file files to control purposes. The subcommittee also accepted the amendment to Article. 1 consisting of the addition of § Article 2 119b in the Tax Order Act. Former § 2 was deleted as part of the legislative amendments. The amendment adopted results from the need to allow for the application of Section IIIA, entitled "Avoidance of tax avoidance', in respect of the international facts covered by double taxation agreements. In view of the fact that the anti-tax avoidance clause contained in the Article. 119a of the draft law largely coincides with the grounds for applying the contractual clauses in question, it is justified to allow the application of the rules contained in Section IIIA of the draft law to those general clauses. This is precisely the case in view of the substantial extension of Section IIIA of the draft law, which also guarantees taxpayers much more protection than applying clauses directly from tax agreements. The planned centralisation of proceedings will involve the possibility of ensuring a high degree of professionalism by applying a clause against the avoidance of double taxation. The taxpayer will also be given the opportunity to consult the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council, which would not be possible for the application of contractual clauses by the field tax authorities. In addition to the print project No 367, the subcommittee added the current article. 4, thus amending Article. 29 in the Act of 10 September 2015 amending the Tax Order and certain other laws. The introduction of this amendment made it clear that the right to optional transfer during a transitional period, i.e. for 2 years, books and evidence in the form of a single control file by small and medium-sized enterprises also has the right to micro-entrepreneurs, because the micro-entrepreneur cannot be in a worse position than the small and medium-sized trader. The subcommittee also amended the current content of the Article. 7, in which the words of the actions carried out changed to those of the tax advantage obtained. This amendment will eliminate the interpretation doubts arising from the ambiguity of the operative event. The indication of a specific moment of action could be difficult to determine in practice. Currently, the term tax advantage within the meaning of the amended provisions refers to terms, i.e. terms to be defined in the Tax Order. The legal effect of the anti-avoidance clause is not just the existence of an artificial structure, but the existence of tax advantages as a result of it. Therefore, the subcommittee, when accepting government representatives, took these amendments into account in the subcommittee report, which was adopted at its meeting on 28 April 2016 by the Committee on Public Finance, and recommends that the High House adopt the report in print No 464. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u267	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Noblet, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u268	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the governmental draft law amending the Tax Order and certain other laws, prints No 367 and No 464. Following the first reading of the project at its 16th meeting of the Sejm on 13 April 2016, the project was directed to the Permanent Sub-Committee to monitor the tax system, where on 27 April this year. it was discussed in detail and adopted in conjunction with the amendments that the rapporteur spoke about. The main objective of the amendment is to introduce a tax avoidance clause in Polish legislation. Tax avoidance is a socially, morally and economically harmful phenomenon that occurs not only in Poland but also in many other countries. The experience of Poland and other countries so far shows that the double taxation agreements themselves are not sufficient to effectively prevent tax avoidance. It is worth noting that it was the European Commission that drew attention to the scale of the risks arising from tax avoidance. One of the solutions recommended by the Commission to counter aggressive tax planning practices resulting in tax avoidance is the adoption by Member States of a general rule on combating tax fraud. The European Parliament will stress, inter alia, that tax avoidance by certain multinational corporations can result in close zero effective tax rates for profits generated in European jurisdictions. Although these corporations use various public goods and services at their place of operation, they do not pay due taxes. Tax avoidance by legal persons has a direct impact on national budgets and on the distribution of fiscal effort between categories of taxpayers and between economic factors. The European Parliament concluded, on the basis of a study by the International Monetary Fund covering 51 countries, that the transfer of profits between tax jurisdictions results in an average reduction in revenue of around 5%. current income from corporate tax. In OECD countries, this decrease is almost 13%. In Poland, the Supreme Audit Chamber, in its findings of the audits contained in the "Surveillance of tax authorities and tax authorities on the regularity of settlements with the budget of the State of entities with a foreign capital', concluded that the absence of a clause against tax avoidance under applicable law constitutes an obstacle to ensuring the integrity of the Polish tax system. In view of the clear position of the Supreme Audit Chamber and the European institutions, the government has prepared an amendment to the Tax Order. The introduction of the anti-tax avoidance clause in the Polish legal order is supported by the special protection of constitutional principles of tax justice and universality and the protection of fiscal sustainability and sustainability of public finances. The introduction of the anti-tax avoidance clause into the Polish legal order will regulate the tax system. The anti-tax avoidance clause will apply if measures with the characteristics of aggressive tax optimization result in a tax advantage exceeding 100,000. zł. For symmetry, in order to minimise the consequences of the entry into force of the anti-tax avoidance clause, the Act proposes the introduction of safeguards to enable taxpayers to understand the position of the tax administration in relation to the planned or already executed transactions to which the clause may potentially apply. The Act provides for the creation of a Council for Anti-Tax Avoidance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] an independent body whose task is to assess the appropriateness of the application of the Article. 119a in individual cases.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u269	You're very close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u270	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice brings one amendment to this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u271	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club. [[Can I make an amendment, too?]] You're welcome. Thank you very much. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u272	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws. At first, I would like to make it very clear that the anti-tax avoidance clause is needed in our tax law. At the same time, it is important to stress that the application of this clause, both because of the legal nature of this solution and because of the many evaluation terms and concepts involved, poses a threat to the rights of the taxpayer. The clause should therefore be accompanied by effective legal mechanisms of a protective nature for the taxpayer. In the beginning, a few words on the definition of tax avoidance or the definition of tax avoidance. Well, it is flawed and leads to at least serious interpretation difficulties, and it is not understandable. For example, it is unclear, and this is of great importance, as regards the contradiction of the benefits with the subject-matter of the provision. I asked this question and I heard that these are the requirements of the European Union. There are no requirements of the European Union that justify the wrong construction, the incomprehensibleness of the rule. It should be stressed that the scope of the clause should be clear. This was pointed out by the Constitutional Tribunal in such a well-known 2004 judgment, but also often later. Second thing. According to the draft article... Maybe I'll get back to that one. Perhaps a representative of the Ministry of Finance or Mr Gosievski would tell me what it means to say that we are dealing with a conflict of interest with the subject matter of the provision. Not with the recipe, not with the target, but with the object. I'd appreciate it. Next case. Oh, that time runs fast. I ask you, as regards the rules on interpretation, where, as we read, it is said that there is no interpretation if there is a reasonable presumption that the case may be the subject of a decision pursuant to Article. 119 a, I fear that this provision may be used to limit the issuing of individual interpretations. Next case. The protective opinion, this is a very important thing, should be more accessible to taxpayers, i.e. cheaper, the fee should be e.g. 5,000. zł. I raised the case and then I heard that it was set in a certain proportion to the charge for the previous price agreement. I would point out that the charge for the previous price agreement is not less than 5 000. zł. The Anti-Tax Avoidance Board should not be dependent on the Minister of Finance and should be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers. The Council should include those with experience and knowledge of tax law that guarantee the highest standards. Who? In my opinion, the judges of the NSA at rest, academics, possibly persons designated by the Ombudsman. In order to protect taxpayers effectively, the opinion of the Council should be mandatory. However, if the request for an opinion remains optional, it must not be so that the silent opinion of the Council will have the effect that it is considered that its failure to give an opinion implies the validity of the clause. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something like this. The Minister has doubts, he asks for an opinion from the Council, the Council does not seem to think this opinion and interprets it to the detriment of the taxpayer, so we introduce the principle in dubio pro fisco, even though we have recently introduced the opposite principle. Too short is the 30-day vacathio legis, which could have an effect in fact contrary to the intention of the legislator, because taxpayers who wish to legalise their actions quickly, adapting them to new legal requirements, could simply fail. Transitional provision of Article. 7 [[♪ The bell ♪]] raises doubts as to whether this solution does not conflict with the principle of the protection of interests in progress and the protection of acquired rights. Here these doubts arise even on the basis of the recent judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 10 February 2015.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u273	Proceed to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u274	In this respect, it is worth asking for an opinion from the Constitutionalists. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u275	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister! I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Tax Order on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Avoiding taxation, as the previous speakers have already mentioned, is important from the point of view of fiscalism of the State, from the point of view of social justice, but fair taxation is equally important from the point of view of social justice as the problem of tax avoidance, because often - not always, but often - the problem of tax avoidance is not due to the greed of those who avoid taxation, but because of the greed of those who impose tax, they determine. If the tax is too big, tax avoidance is the only form of self-defense of the one on which it is imposed, before it goes bankrupt. It should always be borne in mind that Laffer's curve works, and it should not be exaggerated with the amount of taxation, with the value of taxation, then tax avoidance is a smaller problem. On the other hand, if tax avoidance is based on unethical actions, on the motivation of greed, then consideration should be given to as one of the elements that will defend the state and its citizens against this injustice, the introduction of such a clause. However, if we introduce a tax avoidance clause, let us also introduce an institution that will balance it, i.e. defend the taxpayer against injustice. And that's where the taxpayer's attorney's institution is needed. This advice, which will establish protective opinions, should have a spokesman among them who will defend the rights of the taxpayer. The principle mentioned by my previous speaker, Prof. Włodzimierz Nykiel, in dubio pro fisco, would perhaps be much less severe if there were people on the board who would defend the interests of taxpayers, as a matter of fact, they would be de facto lawyers of these people. Because what kind of advice, where only one side of the conflict is taken into account, doesn't have a lawyer on the other side of the conflict. Perhaps this should be considered. And then the person who's gonna be that lawyer is gonna be keeping an eye out for the opinion to be given so that the taxpayer has a chance to defend himself. If there is no such person in this institution, then this institution may simply be biased when political circumstances arise that will motivate this advice to do so rather than to do so. In my opinion, then, the law should include taxpayers, who will, by definition, stand behind the taxpayer and defend its rights. Second thing. There is much talk about CIT, about income taxes, which are one of the main areas of tax avoidance, while I am interested in what will be the dividend tax and what will be the capital gains tax. To what extent will the bill adopted by us protect against the leakage from the fiscal system of the Polish state just dividend tax and capital gains tax revenues? It seems to me that in recent years, with these two types of taxation, we are dealing with tax avoidance, with the transfer of money abroad. This is not due to the fact that the tax is too high, but precisely because someone is dishonest and has legal capacity to take these steps, while smaller players who do not have these opportunities are doomed to pay this tax. And here is the outstanding inequality for large and small players. What else can be added? Of course, a protective opinion should be cheaper. No one would be harmed here if this fee was reduced. I mean, it's like 100 grand or something. is the limit at which we should initiate tax avoidance activities? Perhaps this limit should amount to PLN 0.5 million, PLN 1 million. That limit is 100,000. - could cause things to get too much, and that's why the system's gonna clog up. I don't know, we'll see how it's going to be in practice, but it'd be worth six months next year, two years from now, going back to whether the border is well defined. On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to inform you that we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u277	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I would like to present the position of the club on the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, at my first reading in this House, I was convinced that all clubs were committed to introducing good legislation on the anti-tax avoidance clause, but during the work of the subcommittee on tax monitoring, I lost sight of the fact that it was the government of law and justice that did not want this clause to be introduced. Why? Since, during the work of the subcommittee, the Government of Law and Justice, at the request of the rapporteur, introduces provisions in the draft law which were not covered by the first reading, and thus, in principle, infringe the rule of law. 119 constitutions and make it futile to work on this bill. In addition, by the way, this tax gap we are talking about - maybe the government could clarify whether it has established joint statements on the level of this gap on the Platform government, because one minister is talking about 30 billion and the other 80 billion. That's also very interesting. Of course, in this bill, in the very definition of Mom's clause, as the Professor has already said, phrases that are indeterminate. These undefined phrases may be included in the legislation, especially if we are talking about a clause by which, in principle, all activities cannot be defined, but the Constitutional Tribunal has clearly indicated when such a clause can be allowed. Thus, firstly, the reasons for understanding a given undefined phrase must not leave too much room for individualized interpretation, secondly, it is necessary to give non-specific returns to the content guaranteeing uniformity of the case-lawline, thirdly, the interpretation of non-acute concepts must not lead to unlawful lawmaking by the law-abiding authorities. We are not dealing with all of this in the provisions on the clause. I have the impression that the Government of Law and Justice has translated the wording of the EU law clause directly to the living. Hence, we are talking about the subject matter and purpose of the Act and about artificial activities, i.e. legal concepts that do not exist in our system. How can the purpose of the bill be defined? That's what I was talking about. In EU law, tax laws generally have a preamble, and in this preamble it is precisely indicated what the objectives of the law are. With us, there is no such behaviour in relation to tax law, only and only justification for laws, and we know that laws can take a significantly different shape during legislative work. Hence, it will be very difficult to establish a uniform objective of the tax law. This means that taxpayers will only be subject to the interpretation of tax authorities. Therefore, we propose appropriate solutions in the amendments of the Modern Posel Club, introducing into the Tax Order a provision on the possibility of stopping the implementation of the decision covered by the application of the Article at the request of the taxpayer. 119a until the final settlement of the case by the administrative court. As regards the Anti-Tax Avoidance Council, we also call for two more members to be extended, i.e. the representative of the National Council of Legal Counsels and the National Bar Council. I share the Professor's position that art. 7 is in direct violation of the principle of non-retro non-agit lex, and this causes again the non-constitutionality of the rule, the infringement of the article. 2 Constitutional Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the principles of a democratic rule of law. The Modern Posel Club will support the solutions submitted subject to the adoption of the amendments tabled by the Modern Club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u279	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position to the committee's report on the government draft law amending the Tax Order and some other laws, print No 367 and No 464. The bill concerns a new instrument, a new tax system tool, which is the anti-tax avoidance clause. This instrument operates in many countries around the world, it can be said to be a fairly common instrument that has been used for many years, just as the very negative phenomenon of seeking to pay the lowest taxes or to avoid tax at all is common. This negative phenomenon of tax avoidance occurs in every market economy country. The anti-tax avoidance clause has already functioned in our country, but very briefly. The Constitutional Tribunal ruled in its judgment that it was incompatible with the Article. 2 in conjunction with Article. 217 constitutions. The Court found that the regulation introduced at that time did not comply with the constitutional standards of decent legislation and consequently violated the fundamental elements forming the substance of the principle of trust in the State and the law in question. The desirable features to which the Court drew attention in its decision were above all the definition and predictability. We have doubts as to whether the current law meets these requirements laid down by the Court. It follows from the definition of the tax avoidance clause that this is an act carried out in order to achieve a tax advantage which, in the circumstances, is contrary to the object and purpose of the Tax Act and the mode of action of the taxable person was artificial. Already by definition, it is possible to read out the wide-ranging flexibility which the control services may have to rely on in order to justify the taxpayer's artificial activities. On the other hand, we welcome the provision that the tax avoidance clause will apply to large transactions where the tax advantage will exceed 100,000. zł. The effect of the clause will above all be the possibility for tax authorities to recover unpaid taxes, as well as its preventive role must be underlined. Taxpayers are aware of the risks and consequences arising from the correction of the accounts: payment of the tax due together with interest even in the absence of any other financial sanctions. The creation of a Council for Anti-Tax Avoidance, an opinion-based institution, which will assess the appropriateness of applying the clause in individual cases, should be welcomed. It will therefore be the subject of supervision over the application of the clause and the opinion will be issued at the request of the Minister of Finance if the taxpayer so requests. The introduction of the anti-tax avoidance clause also raises many doubts and can be regarded as an attack on the rights of the taxpayer and the freedom to shape the content of contracts. A number of substantive and financial considerations are raised by the introduction of the so-called. a protective opinion issued by the Minister of Finance at the request of the taxpayer in order to determine whether the action envisaged or carried out by the person concerned is tax avoidance. The time limit for such a decision, which is set without undue delay, but extended up to 6 months, and a fee of 20,000, raises the most doubts. zł. This fee is too high and therefore it simply seems to be a deterrent in the application for a safeguard opinion. In summary, this project, although there is some doubt, is of a sealing nature of the tax system. It is used to combat tax evasion, which occurs on a large scale, so introducing it into a realistic competitive environment for honest entrepreneurs. The final decision of my club of the Polish People's Party will be made [[♪ The bell ♪]] when assessing the final version of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u281	Thank you very much, Member. Are there still Members who wanted to enlist? If not, I'm closing the list. Question time - one and a half minutes. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposal for a procedated law states that taxpayers who keep tax books using computer programs will be obliged without calling on the tax authority to provide the Minister with electronic communication information about the VAT records that have been kept as early as 1 July. They say the Ministry of Finance will start testing the functionality of IT solutions in May. What's it like with taxpayers? To begin with, the responsibility is to be borne by the largest entrepreneurs, but micro and medium-sized enterprises will not avoid it, because in 2018 they will also be burdened with this obligation. There is no guarantee that entrepreneurs will be able to meet it, even for technical reasons. This will not result in the expected results and, above all, will cost companies the high cost of adjusting their clearing systems. Is that a good change? I also wanted to ask: Why is such an important bill, why are so important changes not subject to consultation with the business community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u283	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! You are introducing a provision in this law concerning the possibility of not giving an individual interpretation in respect of those elements of the facts or past event on which there is a reasonable suspicion that they may be the subject of a decision covered by the tax avoidance clause. Do you not fear that the tax authorities will very often benefit from this provision and in fact extend the possibility of obtaining interpretation, referring taxpayers to the need for a protective opinion, all the more so as the individual interpretation is 40 PLN, while for the protective opinion you wish the State 20 000. Evil? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u285	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My question already concerns the problem of the definition of tax avoidance. Definition in Article 119a is completely incomprehensible and largely undefined. It's a serious legal defect. After all, this definition is the most important regulation of this law. The law must be understandable, and in particular tax law. He can't raise any doubts. or cause different interpretations. This definition, unless corrected, will cause huge problems in the application of this law. There's gonna be a lot of litigation, and that's not the point. Why doesn't the government want to improve the obvious bubble at the legislative stage? Answer me that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u287	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating today, we are discussing a change in the Tax Order, but I hope we all agree that the Tax Order is burdened with so many disadvantages today that it would simply be necessary to adopt a new act, not to correct what is wrong. It is known that the General Tax Law Code Commission was established in 2014. This committee has already achieved a great deal. I've been watching, reading directional assumptions, a hundred and dozen pages. My question is this: When is it planned to submit to the High House a proposal for a new Tax Order? This is a very important issue for the functioning of tax mechanisms in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u289	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u290	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll only speak in two words to the Professor's speech. I was still a student of your professor, I remember a few years ago, at the very beginning of your tax lecture, you pointed out that the subject would be very difficult, because the Tax Order is already so complicated and confusing that it would actually have to be revised. After all these years, after two terms of office of the Civic Platform, you have done nothing about it. A diagnosis was made at the time, I think it was 2002. There were eight years of government, a few more teams, and they couldn't change it. I confirm that there is indeed a need, but nothing has been done about it so far. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to ask whether this amount of 100,000, which is the lower limit of the activities that would be verified for tax avoidance, this clause in the article. 119, it is necessary from the point of view of this solution at all, because it gives a clear message that all these activities, which are below this ceiling, will not be subject to this control. After all, it seems to me that some internal regulations or internal decisions that would give some directives to the tax authorities and indicate that some ceiling of activity above which activities are only controlled internally [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...would make it impossible to be sure that these activities relating to lower values would not be taken...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u291	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u292	...in general, when it comes to control. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u293	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question is addressed to the rapporteur, who showed great activity during the 4 hours of work of the Permanent Sub-Committee on the monitoring of the tax system. (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, What is the reason why you have tabled an amendment to the article? 5 of the original draft law amending the Tax Order which introduces the new wording of this article: Art. 119a-119f Act as amended by Article. 1 apply to the tax advantage received after the date of entry into force of the Act? Please state the main reasons for this change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u295	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one question for the rapporteur. This is true of the article. 4, which brings in the extension of the Tax Order. Mr President, I am a member of a parliamentary team working for small and medium-sized companies and economic patriotism. Entrepreneurs of all kinds turn to us. Many times, in many cases they are single-person companies, family companies, but a very large group are representatives of companies with little experience. One question is therefore raised: Will the expansion of the tax system that you have been working on with the whole team take into account the situation in order to simplify the tax procedure for these people? Because like I said, these people want to pay taxes, but they're most afraid of complicated tax procedures. In this connection, my question, Mr President: Will the extension of this point safeguard the interests or will it not complicate the tax procedure in the interests of small businesses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for the government whether the minister responsible for how the contested draft law amending the Tax Order in the field of tax avoidance, when it is adopted, will act in the case of dividends taxes and capital gains taxes. I would like to ask: How will the adoption of this solution, this law, the anti-tax avoidance clause help solve the problem of company avoidance and taxpayers' individual taxes on dividends and capital gains taxes? I ask you to give this reply in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u299	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question, which has already gone somewhere in the Chamber, namely: Why should the Act include tax advantages obtained after the date of entry into force of the Act, but resulting from transactions concluded before the entry into force of the Act? It seems that the record is unconstitutional, but we already know that Law and Justice still averages our constitution. It is unacceptable for Poles to bear the enormous tax consequences of their legitimate actions in connection with the change of law. Especially if they only have 30 days to adapt to the new guidelines. Today, the bill assumes that... basically, it can be concluded that the tax authorities for the settlement of disputed, questionable issues, which are covered, for example. 6 months are given in a protective opinion, and only 30 days are left for business to adapt. This is an unacceptable situation. We have tabled an appropriate amendment, among others. on this matter, and I hope we can restore some sense to this matter in the course of the committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u301	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u302	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about the Tax Order. In the background we also talk more and more about the need to write ordination from scratch. Work on the new Tax Order was started a year and a half ago. These jobs are highly advanced. The previous government has adopted the principles of this new ordination, prepared by the General Tax Law Codification Commission. This ordination is subject to such a fundamental rule, the concern to maintain a balance between the interests of the taxpayer and the public interest of the collective taxpayer to some extent. You are proposing a shortcut, and I understand that, and we also had earlier, in the previous government such concepts of introducing a rule, a tax avoidance clause in a somewhat ad hoc manner, so as not to say shortcuts. On the other hand, if we go this way, we should really think about this balance and try to ensure it as part of this solution. It's a submission. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, this balance does not provide. This is, on the one hand, a matter of definition and, on the other hand, the composition of the council, which needs to be modified. As a Platform club, we would like to vote in favour of this solution, but after making these corrections, which will ensure a balance between the public interest and the private interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u303	Thank you very much, sir. And as the last question will be asked by Mr Piotr Polak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any attempt to regulate tax avoidance is very important and important to the budget of our country, but I think it is not only. And at this point in time, Minister, I would like to recall an example of bad tax law in the case - widely known for the past years - illegible, even illegal, operation of companies selling fuel oil. Unfortunately, there have been many cases in the past that have led to the bankruptcy of honest entrepreneurs who have purchased diesel from dishonest companies, in turn it has translated in many cases for the bankruptcy of these companies and for the huge problems of honest entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to ask: Will the provisions of this bill on the issue I am talking about cause that there will be no such problems in the future that there will be no such possibility of unfair, dishonest companies trading in this particular case with fuel oil, but perhaps other goods that would lead to situations like in the past? I am an envoy from Łódź land and there have been many such cases here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unreliable, bad, illegal activities of companies which unfortunately led to the collapse or huge financial problems of transport companies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u305	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Mr Marian Banaś, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At first, I wanted to point out that we are talking above all about dishonest taxpayers, and this whole regulation applies to them, and not to honest ones, so those honest people need not be concerned that these rules will work against them. And I would like to point out to you that almost all European countries have applied the anti-tax avoidance clause at home, except for Denmark, which is also wondering about it at the moment, Greece has already introduced it, and we are the last country that has not regulated these cases. We have allowed dishonest entrepreneurs to benefit illegally, so this is as timely as possible. The work has been carried out for a long time with the help of the best lawyers, our experts, but not only. We have also benefited from the experience of the European countries, so that in our opinion it is the project that has been developed as best as possible, it will apply and will result in this practice no longer being applied in our country. If we were to accept - I am going to the details - that these benefits we are talking about should not be taken into account in the case of actions concluded before the entry into force of this law, then we would allow these dishonest entrepreneurs to continue to act and actually the purpose of this law would be none. We therefore believe that the wording of these provisions is as legitimate as possible and that their understanding is such that the benefits which will be obtained after the entry into force of the law will also be covered by the consequences resulting from that law, so that law will apply to them. I'm gonna go over the details. There was talk of fuels, about fraud that is happening in the fuel and VAT markets. I wanted to point out that this area is governed by criminal law and that law does not apply to it. I ask you to return to the questions concerning the obligation to submit invoices to the tax authorities, which are regulated by the rules, in a single control file, it must be said that this is primarily about ensuring that these IT instruments work effectively. They will work effectively if, indeed, invoices which will be transmitted by traders to tax offices can be analysed. As regards large companies, this obligation was introduced by the Act of 10 September 2015. Such a duty already existed at that time, so it is not new. On the other hand, with regard to other entrepreneurs - medium and small - we believe that the six-month period is sufficient for them to prepare themselves to issue invoices which will then be analysed, in such a format, in a single control file. Definition of tax avoidance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a general clause, so it must be liquid enough for us to have some interpretation possibilities. The aim is to take advantage of the greatest experience that comes precisely from the achievements of Western countries, the European Union. This general clause is a kind of copy of the recommendations of the European Commission, so we have simply taken over the best practices and we believe that it is in the form it is given at the moment fully meets the requirements of such a definition. About that $100,000 limit. zloty and benefits, that, ladies and gentlemen, we must say to ourselves that we are primarily thinking about big entrepreneurs, taxpayers. In fact, you have to focus primarily on them and not apply this principle to trivial matters. Similarly, this must be interpreted in such a way that the greatest losses are mainly incurred in the case of these large companies. So it would be appropriate to adopt such a limit. As for the details, I think we will be able to answer your questions in writing as well as during the committee meeting, which will take place before the reading of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u307	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite the rapporteur, Mr Gosievski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u308	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Many, in fact, several questions were related to the main definition of tax avoidance. The Minister just replied. This is mostly about art. 119a, that is, what you have been talking about: with the subject matter and purpose of the Tax Act. It is known that this is about what is included in these laws. Perhaps words. Some use them, others use them, but they mean about the same thing. And also what the Minister said: that there must be flexibility and that we have modelled on the solutions that have been proven in Europe. As regards the question and the allegation of one of the Members that, during the work of the subcommittee and committee, we introduced provisions which were not at all related to the provisions of the original draft law, I would like to say that, in replying to further questions, I will present a special link with the fundamental law which I tabled during the work of the subcommittee of amendments which the Committee on Public Finance adopted in the report. The first question was the question of Mr Andrzej Noblet, who asked about the wording of the article. 5 in the original law - in the present law it is Article. 7. In the current wording, Article. 7 - which was art. 5 of the original draft law - could lead to doubts of interpretation arising from the ambiguity of the term "action." It follows from the very essence of the anti-tax avoidance clause that it applies to structures with a high level of complexity, which consist of many operations and elements. As proposed in the original draft, the wording of the Article. 119f § 1 also means a combination of related activities performed by the same or different entities. Therefore, it could be difficult to identify a specific point of action. For example, if an element of the optimization structure would be the payment of dividends to a Polish company by a foreign company established in the European Union - such a dividend, I would remind you, may be wholly exempt under the Parent-Subsidiary Directive - it would be difficult to clearly determine whether the activity related to this optimisation scheme was the creation of a foreign company or any payment of dividends. If it were considered that the moment of the operation was the establishment of a foreign company, the provisions of the anti-tax avoidance clause could in fact not apply in this case. As regards Mr Waldemar Olejniczak's question, I would like to clarify that the article introduced. Four, that's an amendment. Art. 4 states that: In the Act of 10 September 2015 amending the Tax Order and some other Art. 29 shall be replaced by the Introduction of this amendment in Article. The 29th Amending Act of 2015 clarified that the right to optional transfer during a transitional period, i.e. for 2 years, books and evidence in the form of a single control file by small and medium-sized enterprises also has the right to micro-entrepreneurs, because the micro-entrepreneur cannot be in a worse situation than a small and medium-sized entrepreneur. As three parliamentary clubs have tabled amendments, these amendments are likely to be discussed at the re-meeting of the Committee on Public Finances and discussed there. And we'll accept - if they're good, we'll take the good ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u309	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act (prints No 298 and 452). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the report of the Extraordinary Commission on changes in the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Code of Labour in Printing No 298. The bill entered the Sejm on 4 March this year. and concerns the obligation to confirm in writing the basic arrangements relating to the conclusion of a contract of employment before the worker is admitted to work. The aim is to enhance the protection of workers' rights and to prevent illegal employment. On 31 March, the Sejm held its first reading of the draft law, and then the Marshal of the Sejm sent the draft to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification, and this, in turn, addressed the draft to the Permanent Sub-Committee on the revision of the Labour Code. During the work of the sub-committee, one amendment was adopted, replacing the modal verb with a statement stating strongly that the employer confirms the worker's written findings before he was admitted to work. During the examination of the subcommittee report on 27 April, the committee accepted one more amendment to the draft concerning the entry into force of the Act. The six-week vacathio legis was replaced by the entry into force of the Act on 1 September 2016. I would also like to point out that the draft law was adopted unanimously by the committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the members of our committee for their efficient and substantive work. On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission for Changes in Codifications, I ask the High Sejm to adopt a draft law in print No 452. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u311	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u312	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was also honored to present my Parliamentary Club's position on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Labour Code Act in print No 452. Art. 1 of the proposed law does not change the principle currently expressed in the first sentence of Article. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code, according to which the employment contract should be concluded in writing. Nor does it modify the principle that a contract of employment concluded without a written form shall remain valid and, in the event of a dispute, the evidence of witnesses and the hearing of the parties shall be admissible. The draft only provides for a modification of the moment at which the staff member should be confirmed with regard to the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its terms and conditions. The change assumes that this must be done before the employee is admitted to work. In accordance with the provisions in force, the date of written confirmation of the employment contract is the day of commencement of work, and on the basis of Article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act on the social security system the application to the Social Security Office may be made within 7 days of the employment of the employee. The experience of labour inspectors shows that many employers do not keep these deadlines. The disclosure of such facts of undeclared work by labour inspectors usually results in an employer's finding that the person disclosed in the course of the audit has been working since today, and therefore the deadlines for confirmation in writing of the terms of the employment contract and notification to the Social Security Office have not yet expired. You could say that in this way the so-called. The first day of work for many employees lasts for weeks, months, and sometimes for years. Every day is the first day at work, of course in the case of labour inspection. In fact, the current 7-day time limit for reporting a person to social security and the obligation to conclude a contract of employment at the latest on the day of the start of work make it possible to conduct black employment. Most people involved in undeclared work are convinced of the low effectiveness of the control activities of state institutions and therefore live in a sense of the absence of any threat from these institutions, because it can always be explained. Such a practice has even gained its name - it is so-called. First-day syndrome. During the committee meeting there was an interesting and lively discussion on sanctions concerning this legal standard. Such sanctions for offences against workers' rights are provided for in Section 13 of the Labour Code. This is a penalty of 1 000. PLN up to 30,000. zł. The amendment also takes account of the amendment of the article. 281 § 2 of the Labour Code to the extent necessary. However, in order for a sanction to be applied, the disposition of the legal standard must be sufficiently precise to prevent circumvention, and this is the reason for the proposed amendment to the Labour Code. Building a belief in the inevitability of a penalty should be a factor in the legalisation of employment. It is therefore reasonable for the legislator to require that written confirmation be given as to the nature and conditions of the employment contract before the worker is admitted to work. Finally, I would like to stress that the draft and the two amendments introduced later have a positive recommendation from the Council of Social Dialogue, namely the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy and the entire government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło works not only quickly and efficiently, but also in dialogue with the social side, not against it. Therefore, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this revision of the Labour Code and vote in favour of the proposed amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u313	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its opinion on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on the revision of the codification of the Government's draft amendments to the Labour Code. The government project is included in print No 298 and the report in print No 452. High Izbo! The committee report discussed today was adopted unanimously. This is one of the evidences that the Civic Platform is in favour of any solutions that limit the grey zone and, as a result, unfair competition. As I mentioned at the first reading of this project, this phenomenon is a major problem of the Polish labour market and, as a result, we all lose our jobs. Our doubts about the solutions proposed by the government have still not been fully elucidated. We believe that if a dishonest entrepreneur and a dishonest employee agree that the latter will be employed in black, they will find a way together to avoid liability. After all, in a document that will be drawn up before taking up work, you can only enter the current date during the inspection of inspectors, and this is just one possible way of cheating. Therefore, according to the Civic Platform, education is the best way to solve this problem. Of course, such a process of education is long-lasting and immediate action is also needed. But in our view, they will not fully produce the desired effects on the labour market in a broader perspective. Moreover, let us remember that this project removes certain facilities for companies that need to hire an employee quickly and, for organisational reasons, have difficulties in preparing the relevant documentation immediately. We cannot assume that all entrepreneurs are dishonest. Our parliamentary club supports all measures limiting the grey area. We do not deny the proposals contained in this project, but in our view, if they enter into force, the effects they will have on the labour market should be monitored. We need to make sure that this really reduces the number of people working in black, or that it will simply make it more difficult for them to do business. The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of the print report 452. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u315	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club I have the honour to present, this great distinction, the position on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act, prints No. 298 and 452. The draft law amending the Labour Code Act introduces among others. an order for the employer to confirm to the employee the arrangements relating to the conclusion of a contract of employment before he is admitted to work. This solution has a positive impact on the legality of employment and the effectiveness of its control. It should be added that, unfortunately, the existing provisions have not prevented unfair action by some employers in this regard. In summary, the Kukiz Club15 supports the proposed changes as they limit existing ones pathologies involving the use of workers and deceiving the State by failing to pay due taxes and contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u317	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u318	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Modern supports simple, cheap and effective solutions, which is why we welcome the proposed amendments to the Labour Code, because they are in the interests of all - honest employers, the state budget, but above all workers. They are the biggest and direct victims of the current situation in which more than 6% cases of checks by the State Labour Inspection show cases of illegal employment. As usual, lower-wage workers are most affected: physical workers and those employed in transport, logistics, gastronomy or hotels. The efforts of labour inspectors often go to waste, because they cannot impose fines even when all the circumstances indicate that they are once again observing the company with the first-day syndrome. Proposed amendment of the Article. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code will give them a real enforcement tool. We pay close attention to the voices of the social partners, including employers' organisations. We listen to the opinions of representatives of both the Confederation of Leviatan, the Association of Employers of the Business Centre Club and the Employers of the Republic of Poland. Many of us, Messengers and Members of Modernity, have also taken part in this role - the role of the employer - before the parliamentary elections. However, it is difficult for us to recognise the decisive argument that statutory forcing the employer to prepare the documentation by these several hours earlier would be an important problem for companies. The good must be weighed, and there is no doubt in this regard that the safety of the employee, budgeting by limiting the grey economy and promoting fair competition should be placed on the convenience of the large corporations' personnel departments. or even individual employers. The Association of Entrepreneurs and Employers has issued one of the most critical opinions, pointing out the problems that the amendment will create in sectors where, here, the quote, there are sudden staff shortages necessary for immediate completion. I think we should think first of all about where these sudden deficiencies come from. Maybe, among other things. because of the lack of stability of the worker, his exclusion from the social security system, from irregular payouts under the table. Maybe because of the lack of paid vacation leave, the abuse of garbage contracts or the lack of sickness pay? Concerning the revision of the provisions of the Article. 104 § Article 2 and Article 2 200 § 5 of the Labour Code is not necessary, because in the case of checks, the employer must not obscure themselves with the previous wording. In his opinion, the Supreme Court made this clear. However, the harmonisation of legal vocabulary is difficult to assess negatively. Modern will vote in favour of the bill, because this is perhaps a small, but definitely a good change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u319	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u320	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act, print no. 298 and 452. Ladies and gentlemen! How can we interpret the proposed amendment? I understand that her intention is to close some kind of gate, which allowed employers to force employees to stay in the so-called. The gray area. If so, I would point out that it would be difficult to disagree with the fundamental intentions of the proposed changes. This is primarily about art. 29 § 2 of the Labour Code. We understand that the amendment is to require the employer to confirm the employee in writing the arrangements for the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its conditions before the employee is admitted to work in cases where the employment contract has not been concluded in writing. Such a change will enable labour inspectors to establish the illegal employment of workers whenever, in the case of checks, it appears that work in the context of the employment relationship is carried out by persons with whom written employment contracts have not previously been concluded or who have not previously been given written confirmation of the parties to the contract, the type of contract and its conditions. It is also worth noting that, according to the estimates of December 2015, the problem raised in the novel may concern some 370 thousand. people in Poland. These are people whose employers consciously or unconsciously extend, in quotes, the first day of work. It is also worth noting that the authors of the project themselves are unable to estimate how much the proposed change of procedures will be possible to shorten the first day of work. But you have to believe. for the good intentions of the applicants. However, we hope that the proposed novel is a response to the appeal of the trade union community rather than the phobia they have, it seems, representatives of the governing camp, winding up a conspiracy everywhere and not trusting the intentions of an average citizen. The Polish People's Party Club will be in favour of the proposed amendment. Finally, I would like to remind the governments of one more important initiative, which they seem to have forgotten - the 100,000 programme. jobs, by the Minister of Labour Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, who has been taking over since January 2016. The funds are guaranteed for this programme, thanks to which employers or entrepreneurs will be able to receive funding for a year for each new young employee. This year, it could be 30,000. new jobs, in the next two years - 70 more. I am talking about this because I would like to appeal to this side of the Parliament so that the PiS government does not underestimate the good initiative and potential of young people who can benefit from it. Rulers, we support your solutions, if these are solutions good for Poles, you do not underestimate the achievements of your predecessors. Remember that you are not infallible and that nothing, even so-called. A good change doesn't last forever. Remember that. Be for the people, not for yourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u321	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join the floor, please. I'll close the list after I ask you the first question. Please, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska has the floor. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, the lack of a legal obligation to confirm the employee's employment in writing before he is admitted to work significantly makes it difficult for the State Labour Inspection to state that a person at the workplace is an employee, makes it difficult to detect employment in black. I would like to ask: How does the State Labour Inspection evaluate this change? I would also be grateful to inform you how often a youth worker is actually informed of his rights before entering work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u323	Thank you. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u324	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The introduction of an obligation to confirm the employer's employment contract in writing before he is admitted to work is undoubtedly another good change aimed at increasing the protection of workers' rights and preventing illegal employment. This is a change expected by the working environment and unnoticed - there is no Member - by your predecessors in your department, Minister. Annual inspection reports show that black employment has become a pathology that is extremely difficult to combat in the light of the current rules. In order to improve the effectiveness of supervisory authorities in combating these irregularities, it is also necessary to amend the Law on State Labour Inspection and other laws. Minister, if the Ministry provides for the necessary changes, e.g. in the Freedom of Business Act, as regards the need for labour inspectors to inform their intention to carry out inspections 7 days before taking them, which will undoubtedly prevent irregularities in the proposed amendments to the Labour Code? Because we all know that only unannounced checks can effectively counteract existing pathologies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u325	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u326	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Changes that have been prepared by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy are long-awaited changes, especially by employees. A number of abnormal situations have been tolerated in the last eight years. One such situation was so-called. a trial day. I'm explaining. The employee worked a day without pay before signing the contract. After a day's work, either he was employed or a dishonest entrepreneur the next day invited another employee on the trial day. This phenomenon was commonly used in the so-called. seasonal industries, e.g. in gastronomy in seaside resorts. This is an outrageous situation because, as a result of unfair actions, the entrepreneur lost both the employee and the state budget. The expected introduction of the need to confirm working conditions before the employee is admitted to work and to improve the activities of the State Labour Inspection will eliminate such situations. I would also like to draw attention to the need to carry out inspections in relation to the number of hours worked in the broad sense, because sometimes workers do some of their tasks after hours of work without pay, which is particularly evident in shopping malls, where often the employee after leaving work and closing the shop must still, for example. prepare reports, clean up or do other things. In summary, the changes will either give each worker a written contract or have its conditions confirmed in writing, which will make it clear to the employment control services. The new rules will make it easier for labour inspectors to identify cases of illegal employment of workers, thereby reducing the so-called employment. The gray zone. Amendments introduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] make it easier for workers to seek out their benefits and entitlements from the employment relationship and to benefit from the protection guaranteed by social security legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u327	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u328	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This project should be assessed very positively. Simple change, albeit eliminating a very large phenomenon in the labour sphere. It should have been introduced long ago, but better late than never. At this stage of the employment relationship, however, there are other problems that need to be considered whether similar solutions should also be laid down and proposed. The case concerns a situation where the employer and the employee sign two different contracts, two different conditions of employment relationship, i.e. the worker is forced to sign two different contracts, and the possible control has unfortunately only one of these contracts, i.e. it confirms only one of the circumstances which are favourable to the employer in this case and not to the employee, but forced to accept such circumstances on the labour market. Shouldn't we think about a solution that would give, for example, labour inspections, information on what basic working conditions are between the beginning and the end, i.e. whether such conditions should not be reported for inspection of work by a portal or a survey, which would make it impossible even with this forced consent of the employee [[♪ The bell ♪]] manipulating working conditions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u329	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Employers often complain - and so justify their employment of black workers - to the level of contributions and other burdens resulting from the employment of a legal worker. That's also a common reason. I would like to ask the Minister in the context of this notification to social security, because the admission of employers to employ workers in black hits not only those workers, because, unfortunately, as a former employee of the Social Insurance Institution, I was quite often faced with the situation that people who, for example, had been trying to make additional documents later. they lost their lives either in an accident at work or in another situation, and families did not later have the insurance period required for the deceased to get a family pension, but such a pathological situation also very, very much hits honest employers, who with full benefits hire for a contract of employment. Once again, in conclusion, I wanted to ask the Minister whether the Ministry, or whether the government of Ms Beata Szydło is planning any further changes in relation to e.g. social security regulations to cut this possibility of hiring black workers as much as possible. If someone pays their contributions, some employer is legally employed, then [[♪ The bell ♪]] his Colleagues He also had to do it legally, pay all the contributions due, sometimes even lower, because the government of Law and Justice reduced those contributions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u331	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting the amendment of the Labour Code Act, the liquidation of the so-called. First-day syndrome. I do not hide the fact that I was surprised by Mr Jarubas, who was able to address other aspects, even the support programme for young people up to the age of 30, during the first day's syndrome. Although he does not hear it, I want to assure him that the programme is being continued, so that there is no danger of continuing this programme. Now, back to our bill, I'm really glad there's unanimity today. I would remind you that in the previous term of the Sejm, this project reported Law and Justice. At the time there was no agreement on the adoption of these solutions, today we have this agreement. It is also important that the High House respected the agreement that was concluded by the Social Dialogue Council, because it was the first project to be accepted by both employers and trade unions in principle, as well as the date of entry into force. We set the date for the entry into force of this law on 1 September this year. So that is also a good example of starting a dialogue with the social side and accepting the arrangements of the social partners by the government. As far as the specific questions are concerned, as they were asked, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska asked about the issue relating to the State Labour Inspection. One argument for this change was also the opinion of the State Labour Inspection. Today, in the case of the operation of this law, inspectors coming to inspections have not been able to verify whether the employee does not actually have this contract yet, working the first day, whether he simply does not have it. This change will prevent such situations from happening. I also immediately answer the doubts that were raised here, i.e. related to the issue of the transfer in fact confirmation of the conclusion of the agreement. Because we have in the recipe: by the end of the first day, and now we have that confirmation must be before we start work. It is well known that an employee must also have a medical examination, and I think that also on this occasion he can immediately receive of course a contract of employment and there will be no major problems with it. Mrs Bożena Borys-Szopa also asked about changes to the Law on the Freedom of Business. We perfectly remember the whole discussion and the conclusions of the State Labour Inspection regarding the notification of control by the entrepreneur 7 days before the inspection. This is a provision that raises a lot of concerns. It is worth recalling that the Chief Labour Inspector recently issued a new interpretation of this also saying that this provision should not really apply to the State Labour Inspection inspectors. But there are doubts that must later be settled even on a judicial basis. It is worth considering amending these provisions, of course, in agreement with the Minister of Development, because this is a law on freedom of economic activity. If we talk more about, among other things. powers and changes concerning the Act on State Labour Inspection, inter alia what the Chief Labour Inspector also proposes, which also has our full acceptance to make a certain gradation of the imposition of penalties - i.e. if this is the first visit of the inspector at the workplace, it should end with an instruction, unless the issue concerns the threat of life and safety, then of course the decisions should be made as much as possible whether it is about the mandate or even about the cessation of production, but in such first cases, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, so that this is a remark, and in the case of the redecision of the imposition of a mandate - these proposals should also be included in the amendments to the Act on State Labour Inspection. On this occasion, I think we should return to the issue of changing or eliminating notifications. This is also the issue of the authorisations that labour inspectors must receive before they begin their inspection. It seems that, as is the case in most countries or in all European countries, an inspector on the basis of a card should not be required to have an additional authorisation. Mr Łukasz Rzepecki also spoke about the trial period. Here full consent, these abuses were very much. We hope that this amendment will somehow end this, there will be no explanation that it is the first day and the trial period. Of course if... We are not in a position here to regulate such situations by law, when it is evident that the other party agrees. There must be two sides. And the employer, even knowing that the employee is repeatedly forced to do so... But here we're giving this opportunity for an employee to defend himself against it. If that is the case, Mr Buda's question concerning double agreements was that it is a problem here. Maybe the proposal that's been made about trying to notify... The electronic system is developing quite rapidly at the moment, so that perhaps in the future such solutions will also be taken into account. Madam President, Mrs Bartus pointed out a very important issue concerning the notification of the Social Insurance Institution. Today's deadline is seven days. This was also considered in the course of the work, it was also one of the demands of the State Labour Inspection, except that here the opinion of the Social Insurance Institution was unambiguous, that insurance coverage takes place at the time of the signing of the contract, i.e. no matter when the authority, i.e. the Social Security Office, is notified, whether it is 5 days, 6 days or 7; at the time of signing the contract. Assuming that today there will be a contract signed, before starting work, at this moment there is this protection. Hence, we have not decided on protection, given, of course, that there are different forms of employment. We're talking code form, it's easier, but other work relationships, contract contracts, that's a different range. This is what we are trying to regulate in other legislation, but it seems that if we discuss the review of the whole pension system, then one of the discussions should be about what the honourable Member has said here. Thank you all so much for supporting this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u333	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u334	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister has basically answered all the questions that have been asked. And I'd like to fill in the answers to the questions about the first day's pay, the day's pay for the rehearsal. As I said, in the committee, we talked about sanctions resulting from non-compliance with the Labour Code, the new standard established, and we also mentioned the rules of the Penal Code, which, starting with the article. 218, also regulates as offences the infringement of workers' rights, even with the consent of the employee. In this case, it appears that it would be possible to at least try to make the workers aware that there are such rules, such sanctions for violation of workers' rights, and more specifically, for such an infringement that the worker works without pay, without applying for insurance. Here you can also use a notice to the prosecution and these rules of the Penal Code. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u335	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws (prints No. 382 and 453). I ask Mr Jan Mosiński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present to the High House the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, print No 382. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm held its 16th meeting on 13 April 2016, in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. At its meeting of 27 April this year. The committee examined the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and certain other laws, adopting the committee's report in print No 453. In the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy and Families recommended in the draft law, the solutions are intended to adapt the provisions contained in the article. 176 Labour Code to the requirements of Art. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. As pointed out in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, reservations to this provision were raised by the European Commission, considering that Article. 176 is contrary to the provisions of the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. In the opinion of the European Commission, the abovementioned Article. 176 The Labour Code, referring to all women, and not just pregnant and breastfeeding women, is an obstacle to gender equality, particularly as regards access to employment. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy states that this draft law also removes non-compliance with the provisions of Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the field of employment and occupation. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy states that the draft law ensures the correct transposition of the provisions of Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the field of employment and occupation. In the course of the work, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy adopted editorial amendments. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy requests the High Sejm to adopt a government bill amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws contained in print No. 382. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u337	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u338	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Seym! I would like to present to the High House the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the Government's draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, print No 382, committee report - print No 453. The draft of this law is to bring Polish labour law provisions into line with Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 aimed at introducing the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in employment and adapting authorisations to Article. 92. 1st Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Current wording of the article. 176 The Labour Code states that women must not be employed for work that is particularly burdensome or harmful to health. This provision also establishes a delegation to the Council of Ministers to establish a list of these work in the Regulation. The European Commission has found the provisions of that provision incompatible with the provisions of Directive 2002/77/EC on the introduction of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions. The current article. 176 The Labour Code applies to all women, not just pregnant and breastfeeding women. In the Commission's view, this record is an obstacle to ensuring gender equality. The draft amendment therefore envisages a revision of the current wording of the article. 176 The Labour Code, according to which a special form of protection will apply only to pregnant and breastfeeding women who, according to the amended provision, will not be able to carry out work which is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health, which may adversely affect the health of pregnant women, the course of pregnancy or the feeding of the child. Proposed amendments to the Article. 176 In addition, it will be necessary to amend the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and the Act on the military service of professional soldiers. In both of these laws, amendments will concern the prohibition on the performance of duties, functions or duties which are dangerous, harmful or burdensome to health, by pregnant women and during breast-feeding. It must be noted here that the European Commission's reservations were raised in 2014. The previous Minister of Labour has not taken any action for almost two years to make the necessary changes to the Labour Code and to bring these provisions into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the recommendations of the European Commission, which today's constitutional defenders seem to have forgotten. Thanking the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy for another sign of good change, the Law and Justice Club welcomes the draft law on amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, print No 382, and supports the proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u339	Thank you. Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its opinion on the report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the Government's draft amendments to the Labour Code. The government project is included in print No 382 and the committee's report is included in print No 453. High Izbo! Today's committee report differs from the government's draft only with editorial amendments, so there are some doubts signalled at the first reading of the law at the April plenary session. The most important problem is the list of jobs that pregnant women and nursing women will not be able to do. From the information provided by Minister Stanisław Swede, it appears that the new list is to be set up soon. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to ask that this process be consulted widely with the social partners, especially employers. This group has practical knowledge that will help us avoid a situation where, instead of helping women, we will actually make it harder for them to find employment. This is the danger I pointed out during the debate in April and this is still an issue. As far as the draft amendments to the Labour Code are concerned, the Civic Platform, of course, recommends adopting the proposed solutions in line with the recommendations of the European Community. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u341	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, prints No. 382 and 453. The proposed amendment concerns Article. 176 Labour Code. It is proposed to change by stating that pregnant and breast-feeding women will not be able to carry out work that is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health, which may adversely affect women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. It is also proposed to clarify the mandate for the Council of Ministers to establish, by regulation, a list of works which may have adverse effects on the health of women, the course of pregnancy or breast-feeding of children associated with excessive physical effort, including the manual transport of weights, due to the manner and conditions of carrying out such work, taking into account the types of factors of the working environment and their level of occurrence. The aim of the proposal is to align our right with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment between men and women in the field of employment and occupation, and to adapt the authorisation to the requirements of the Article. 92 constitutions. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 supports the proposed amendments only because the explanatory memorandum to the bill contains a statement of maintenance in the relevant regulations of the list of work prohibited from other women, i.e. those not pregnant and not feeding. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u343	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are many reasons why not only should we, but as a legislator we are obliged to introduce proposed amendments to the Labour Code. They can be assigned to two groups for simplification. We should praise them because of our values and we must give them because of the law. It's about values first. This is the right place, but it is not the right time to dwell on the achievements of European thought on equality between men and women. Some solutions have been recognised as civilization standards by the community of European countries and Poland cannot afford to stand back from this. The translation of why we, women, should have equal opportunities in accessing employment, training and promotion of the professional insults, I am convinced, the intelligence of the members of the upper chamber. The quality of the labour market and the protection of motherhood are priorities for the Modern. At the same time, these are values that do not have to be chosen, intertwined on many levels and must be fought for both. This is particularly important at a time when we are facing a big, common demographic problem. Motherhood cannot be feared by a woman who wants to continue her career. It must feel confident, it must feel that the State supports it when for higher purposes and greater values it must limit its professional activity. Now about the law. This amendment of the Labour Code obliges us both to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in connection with the article. 92. 1 Constitution as well as EU law. European Union law is founded on the prohibition of discrimination. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council is clear. The Treaty on European Union also defines equality between men and women as an objective of the Community and imposes a positive obligation to support it in all its activities. The Court of Justice has always consistently recognised the right to protect the biological condition of pregnant women as well as those who are breastfeeding, and these conditions have been taken into account in the proposed amendment to the Code. This does not exclude pregnant women or breastfeeding women from the labour market, but, on the contrary, protects them, which the Modern will always support as a responsible direction for development. The proposed amendment also meets the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and pursues the objectives of the Member States of the Council of Europe. It's obvious and necessary. Some important technical issues will remain, as signalled, among others. The Confederation of Leviathan. In order not to fire the baby with a bath, it is necessary to carefully design the implementing rules. To sum up the Modern position in four words: we should, we must, we vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u345	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u346	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present the position of the club regarding the government draft law amending the Labour Code Act and some other laws, prints No. 382 and 453. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed amendment is based on clarification of the Article. 176 The Labour Code, which states that work which is burdensome, dangerous or harmful to health cannot be performed by pregnant women and breast-feeding children. The current rules have been challenged by the European Commission. According to the Commission, in its Article. 176 The Labour Code as it stands so far shows that it applies to all women, and this in turn conflicts with the idea of gender equality in access to employment. We have carefully examined the justification for the draft novel and Directive 2006/54/EC of the European Parliament on equality between women and men in the labour market. We fully agree that equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles of European Union law. It applies to all aspects of social life, including employment. The novel also rightly provides for a new list of work that can have an adverse effect on women's health, pregnancy or breast-feeding. Knowledge of the impact of working conditions and working environment factors on women's health, pregnancy and feeding should be used in determining the list. The proposed provisions will, of course, make it necessary to amend the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland and the Act on the military service of professional soldiers. Both laws will include prohibitions on soldiers - women's duties, duties or duties which are dangerous, harmful or burdensome to health during pregnancy or breastfeeding. In conclusion, according to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, increasing the standard of equal opportunities in the labour market for women and men is a good direction. It is also worth noting that this law addresses the problem of non-compliance with the authorisation contained in the Article. 176 Labour Code to the requirements of Art. 92. 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Here it is worth noting that also due to the respect for the Constitution of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club will support the changes proposed by the applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u347	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to sign up, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Ms. Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you to clarify whether the amendments introduced by this law adequately protect pregnant or breast-feeding women who are soldiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u349	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for supporting this project, which for many years could not be consummated. At the moment, we took him in pretty fast mode. To conclude, we want to protect women, pregnant women, women feeding children, but we also want not to hinder their employment where possible. An important element of this change is the list of work that will be authorised in relation to their performance by pregnant women and women feeding the child. The Central Institute for Labour Protection, the Institute for Labour Medicine, will be involved in drawing up this list, but we will also consult within the Social Dialogue Council so that employers and trade unions can influence the decisions taken in this area. With regard to the question of Mrs Eve Tomaszewska, we are amending the Military Service Act in order to ensure full protection for women in this respect too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u351	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 15. of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law Family and caring code and some other laws (print No 448). I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of President Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present a bill amending the Family and Care Code Act and some other laws. This project is an expression of the President's concern that the 500+ funds actually go to families, to support families in raising children. It's a project that doesn't directly touch the bill. I call it a shielding project that makes it possible for the 500+ law to function smoothly and to reach the recipients. On 1 April, the Law of 11 February on State aid to raise children entered into force. Its essence is the financial support of families with dependent children up to the age of 18. The Act introduces a new monetary benefit into the legal system, a parenting benefit allowing families to reduce the financial burden of raising children. This provision is a long-term instrument of family policy and pursues three main objectives. Firstly, it encourages decision-making about having more offspring and thus improving the remaining in Poland for years at a level that has not been guaranteed so-called. the simple replacementability of generations of the fertility rate. Secondly, it reduces the risk of poverty, especially among the youngest Poles. And thirdly, it is an investment in human capital that is the basis for building a strong state. According to Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The purpose of this law is to partially cover the costs of raising a child, including the care and care of the child's needs. This benefit is therefore a maintenance function. The nature of the benefit also indicates the content of the justification for the draft law, which shows that the educational provision is directed to families with dependent children and is intended primarily to cover part of the expenses related to meeting the needs of life and raising children. Education and preparation for the life of children entails a high financial burden for dependants, in particular in multi-member families. As a result, families often face economic barriers related to the size of their income. It is therefore necessary to introduce solutions to eliminate or significantly reduce them. This law will reduce the current economic constraints, especially among young people who decide to have children, especially the second and the next child. This is the justification for the bill adopted by the High House. The above in comparison with the circumstances... The Act does not explicitly determine the relationship between parenting and maintenance obligations. In practice, this may raise doubts as to whether such financial support should be taken into account when determining the scope of the maintenance obligation. Here, the statements of the legal doctrine on this problem are few, for obvious reasons, and quite general, but two different positions can already be observed. In accordance with one of these positions, the parental benefit should be taken into account by the family courts in determining the amount of maintenance. This is due to the absence of a provision that the benefit does not affect the scope of the maintenance obligation. Moreover, although State aid does not exempt parents from maintenance obligations, the family court must take into account all the benefits that the child receives in determining the legitimate needs of the child and the material situation of the parents. That's one theory in doctrine. The second says - this is a completely different doctrine in turn, a different view - that family courts, specifying the scope of the maintenance obligation, should be abstracted from the educational provision. Parents' commitment to their children is fundamental and impossible exemption from this obligation, and therefore a reduction in the amount of maintenance on account of the entitlement to provide supplementary public-funded education would be unlawful. It could be said that so far this dispute is only going on on the ground of legal doctrine, but practice, as always, shows in fact, whether it's just a theory or it's becoming something else. Well, on April 21st, according to the media, we had the first such case in Poland, that the court did not judge the maintenance amount requested by the child's mother, because it thought that she could try to obtain a benefit under the 500+ programme. So clearly, the judge here was in favour of the first of these views, for the first doctrine. High Izbo! In this respect, however, it is necessary to act at this point so that the dispute does not run in court, only that there are clear laws which will resolve the dispute, so that there is no dispute here, that we do not have such a situation that some courts will walk one line at a time, another at a time, then it will go to the Supreme Court and we will wait for the ruling of the Supreme Court to establish a line of inquiry. The President believes that this dispute must be cut at this level and that the changes should be clearly recorded so that this dispute simply does not exist here. In this position, the President proposed a change in the article to put an end to this dispute. 135 § 3 of the Family and Care Code, which regulates the impact of social benefits on the existence and scope of maintenance obligations. This change consists in a clear indication that the parental benefit and its equivalent allowance in the amount of the parental benefit falling within the category of benefits and other cash for children placed in the foster care indicated in the proposed article. § 135 § 3 point 2 of the Family and Care Code, do not affect the scope of the maintenance obligation. This will avoid possible discrepancies in the case law of the family courts and ensure that the provisions of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children are applied in accordance with the intention of the legislator. In the view of the President, it cannot be used to reduce maintenance burdens and to help those obliged to do so, especially in a situation where maintenance is so low. This would not only contradict its essence, but would also grossly violate the principle of social justice. What you are proposing to the President is in line with the case law of the Constitutional Court, which has spoken on this matter and is also in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Convention states that it is the responsibility of the States to take all appropriate steps to ensure that parents or other persons with financial responsibility for the child provide for the child. Thus, as is the case in the doctrine, the State, acting in pursuit of the right of a child to a decent living, should first of all force the responsible behaviour of his parents towards the child, in order to avoid the situation in which social law or the practice of applying the law would lead to the erosion of maintenance obligations. The support of parents by the State to provide the child with means of subsistence cannot be understood as the service of parents and the transfer of burdens to taxpayers. It is hard to imagine a clearer view. This change is going precisely in this direction, so that there is no dispute about it. Although we have such records that we have a convention, practice shows that this can be interpreted differently. And in line with these positions and in view of the ratio legis of the Law on State aid to raise children, which is to improve the situation of families raising children, it is necessary, in the view of the President, to amend the proposed bill. It will ensure that this law is applied in accordance with the intention of the legislator to adopt it without the need to seek a targeted interpretation in this regard. At the same time, it is also appropriate to regulate the impact on the scope of maintenance obligations other than the provision of education and an allowance in the amount of educational benefits intended to cover the cost of child care for parents or guardians of children, family homes and institutional foster care. In the light of the current wording of the article. Article 135 (3) of the Family and Care Code does not affect the scope of the maintenance obligation by providing social assistance or maintenance fund referred to in the Law of 7 September 2007 on assistance to persons entitled to maintenance to be reimbursed by the maintenance obligation and the provision to the foster family. The legislator did not include this provision, among others. family benefits as defined in the Law of 28 November 2003 on family benefits. However, these benefits are identical to educational benefits. The provision of education was modelled on the provision of family benefits. In this case, therefore, the above arguments for not including them in determining the scope of the maintenance obligation remain valid. The Supreme Court has already confirmed this position with regard to the family allowance in 1967, so that there is no more doubt here. According to the wording of the explanatory memorandum of the Supreme Court's resolution: When judging a child's child's entitlement to child support, the court does not take into account the family allowance. This allowance is for the needs of the child regardless of the child's statutory maintenance. The above supports the extension of the scope of this Article. 135 § 3 in the Family and Care Code. On the other hand, with regard to the welfare benefits of children placed in foster care, it should be pointed out that the scope of the maintenance obligation is currently not affected solely by the benefit to the foster family. In the contents of this article. Article 135 (3) of the Family and Care Code does not include benefits granted to persons who run the family's homes and to the institution's foster care. The President's view is that there is no justification for the different treatment of children's benefits for the maintenance of various forms of foster care, and therefore the draft law proposes to supplement the list of benefits which do not affect the scope of the maintenance obligation also on the maintenance of children received by family homes and on the basis of institutional foster care. High Izbo! The third of the proposed amendments contained in the draft law concerns the exclusion of amounts not subject to enforcement on the basis of a judicial or administrative implementing title, including a parental benefit and an allowance in the amount of a parental benefit, from a bail-out from a bank account. It should be pointed out here that it has been introduced in Article. 31 The Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children, amending Article 31 of the Act of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children. 833 in the Code of Civil Procedure, aimed at excluding the amount of parental benefit and benefits, allowances and other amounts enumeratively listed in the provisions of the Law on Family Support and foster care from enforcement, will not be effective in the execution of the bank account. This type of enforcement of claims is characterised by a specific feature of the fact that the cash that affects the bank account loses the quality of its origin, loses its identity and becomes merely the funds collected in the account. Thus, even if they are protected from execution under specific rules, e.g. part of the remuneration for work, at the moment of impact on the bank account, shall be executed in accordance with the rules laid down for the execution of claims from the bank account. The executing authority, i.e. the judicial bailiff or any other enforcement body, has no knowledge of what funds are in the occupied bank account and where they come from. Thus, in the current legal system, debtors granted e.g. a parent's benefit or an allowance in the amount of a parent's benefit, in order to avoid their transfer to the amounts due, should apply for a limitation of the execution from the bank account by the amount derived from the benefit or allowance. The submission of such a request involves the obligation to show the origin of such amounts, which should not be too difficult because of the specific amount of the benefit and the title of the transfer, but will require additional formalities. And again, we have a situation in which life has confirmed the foresight of the President that this needs to be changed. We have recently learned, when this project was already submitted in the Sejm, that it happened a few days ago to a curiosity and unusual situation in the municipality of Puck. According to the media, the mother of six children from Puck came to collect her due money - 3,000. zł. The mother of six children. When the woman stood by the post office window in Puck, it turned out that the account had been cleared. In the presence of her children, a shook up mom slipped to the floor. This was not what it was supposed to look like last week - said Mrs.Sylwia Dawidowska, the mother of these children. It's supposed to be guaranteed, and the bailiff won't touch it. In this case it was different - the bailiff of Szczecin mercilessly removed money from the account from the program Why? Because this lady in October last year received a notification of the bailiff's execution on her bank account - an employee of the firm is explained. "Then she should write us a letter saying that there are family benefits. Exactly what I just read about is confirmed. It is difficult to require all Polish residents to know the law so that they know that it is their duty to send a letter, inform the bailiff. Unfortunately, the level of legal awareness of Poles is very low. The laws that you propose to the President are about to free citizens from being asked to do so, so that it is by law, so that it is simply ex lege, that these measures are simply secured and not to be moved for bailiffs. And in order to avoid precisely such situations as I mentioned just moments ago, described by the media, this change is being introduced to exclude funds not subject to execution from the bank account under Article. 833 § 6 and 7 of the Law of 17 November 1964. Code of Civil Procedure. It is therefore proposed to add in Article. 890 Code of Civil Procedure provision excluding benefits referred to in Article. 833 § 6 and 7 from the execution of the bank account. The attachment of the claim from this account will therefore not include: maintenance benefits, cash benefits paid in the event of inefficiencies in the execution of maintenance, family benefits, family allowances, care, childbirth, for full orphans, welfare benefits, social assistance benefits, integration benefits, but also educational benefits and benefits, allowances and other amounts referred to in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 80, Art. 81, Art. 83, Art. 84 and Article 84 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 140 Law on support for family and foster care, and financial resources for the maintenance of housing in a multi-family building or single-family house referred to in Article. Paragraph 83. Article 2 and Article 2 Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on support of family and foster care system. Analogous regulation regarding the release from bank account execution is also proposed by the President in the article. 54 of the Act of 29 August 1997. Bank law. Such a solution will provide effective protection against the execution of claims covered by the enforcement title of benefits released from executions which were held in a bank account at the time of the seizure or have affected that account after the seizure has taken place. The introduction of this regulation, in the opinion of the President, will prevent the bank from carrying out bail-out benefits released from execution due to their exclusion from this class. This appropriation will not be used to cover the enforcement of the claim. The bank's task will be to notify the bailiff that part of the amount on the bank account cannot be transferred because it comes from non-occupied benefits. At the same time, it does not appear that the bank's determination of the source of the funds held in the client's bank account entails any difficulties, that the bank, having full access to the client's account, should have no problem establishing the titles on which the client received certain funds. In the view of the President, the adoption of this project, firstly, will cause the measures that you have committed to support families to reach these families, secondly, to make life easier for citizens, because they will not have to come forward with proposals, as they do at the moment, and will not be surprised at the fact that money is suddenly disappearing and will not be experiencing a kind of trauma at this point. As I said at the outset, this project is due to the concern that these funds - public funds, State budget resources - do not disappear along the way to reach those who need it most. Hence the hot appeal for support of this bill, for the adoption of this law as soon as possible so that the situations described recently by the media do not take place any more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Marek Ast, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Family and Care Code Act and certain other laws contained in print No 448. The Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children introduced a very important, significant cash benefit, so-called. educational provision, the objectives of which are clearly and clearly set out in the Act and aim primarily to encourage families to have children and at the same time reduce the risk of poverty. It is also an investment in human capital, this has already been said. However, it is not the purpose of this provision to replace persons obliged to provide maintenance in payment of maintenance services, and, as the Minister said, the Act of 11 February unfortunately does not clearly resolve this issue, even though there were announcements and this was the intention of both the projectors and the legislators to ensure that the educational provision does not affect the scope of maintenance provision. Therefore, the legislative proposal contained in the project is necessary, mainly by amending the family and caring code in such a way as to regulate the impact of social benefits on the existence and scope of maintenance obligations. The above amendment consists in a clear indication that the parental benefit and its equivalent allowance in the amount of the parental benefit do not affect the scope of the maintenance obligation. I think that this will clearly resolve doubts above all at the stage of establishing the maintenance obligation and its amount, and will clearly prevent the amount of this benefit or the amount of funds that will affect the person entitled to it from being counted as income which prejudices the right to maintenance or restricts the right to maintenance. Of course, the logical consequence of this proposal is also another proposal limiting or excluding from executions from bank accounts or executions on the basis of a judicial or administrative enforcement title, because, as we have already said, this educational benefit has one specific purpose: it does not replace maintenance, in this case the State does not provide the person liable to pay maintenance, to maintenance benefits, the State helps by granting this benefit, to raise children, mobilises, encourages an increase in childhood. This is the nature of the benefit; this is not a maintenance benefit. In this situation, of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this proposal and requests that it be referred to further legislative work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u355	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Kochan, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u356	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say that this is a very good project, changing and clarifying the law that protects the constitutional value of the child's welfare. It is because it does not care about the interests of parents who, having their rights, also have absolutely related obligations to these rights, have the obligation to raise and maintain their child. So if it is that we support the family and, above all, the children, in that they grow up not in poverty, but in abundance, in peace, in joy, it is not a form that relieves any parent from putting on his child. The clarification of this in the Family and Care Code makes me very happy, all the more so because, as the explanatory memorandum states very clearly, it follows from two legal conditions: firstly, from the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, I am very pleased that we respect these judgments - secondly, from the Convention on the Rights of the Child, not so long ago ratified in this House. So the child's welfare in the foreground. Moreover, the Family and caring code in the President's proposal also makes it clear that not only does the parental benefit, but also all other child benefits that come from the state budget, which we all make up, taxpayers, do not exempt parents from maintenance obligations, if such maintenance is granted, which I do not wish to any child, because it is better not to be alimony, but it is good that this bill also includes all other allowances that do not exempt them from maintenance obligations. Second thing. If we support a child, such benefits may not be subject to bailouts, even because the child cannot bear the consequences of the mistakes of his parents. The child's welfare as a constitutional value is respected here. The facilitations that emerge from these provisions for citizens' needs, the facilitation for citizens, and the imposition of some kind of responsibilities on banks, I think, is a very good step in the right direction. Therefore, my club will certainly support this bill and we ask that it be directed to further work. On the other hand, we consider it a huge mistake not to take into account, during the government legislative work on the 500+ programme, the comments of the bailiff that the bailiff does not see where the money comes from in the bank account, and can take it, these comments have not been taken into account. I also recommend the attention of the President every child. Each child, not the other and not the third, only any child who should be covered by this support, especially a child who is raised alone by one parent or a child where the income of his parents exceeds the threshold by 1 PLN and therefore the benefit is only for the second child. I recommend the solutions that we apply to other benefits - on the basis of: zloty for zloty, I also recommend children from institutional foster care, which are the only ones who have not been covered by the 500+ programme, Minister, and who, when they go out on their own, at 18 or not much more, are actually not equipped with anything, because these few thousand supporting their independence are really not enough. It would be good if the counties responsible for these children transferred benefits under the 500+ programme to their special trust accounts, so that these children could then be helped in their own lives. I also recommend children between 16 and 18 years of age, children with a minor disability decision that falls out of the system. If they were supported by 500 zloty, often by 16 years of age, their rehabilitation, continued for 2 years later, would give them a chance to be independent or to get out of disability at all. These solutions are recommended for attention [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr President, because all the amendments made in this matter by my club during the process of law 500+ have not been taken into account...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u357	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u358	...and in our opinion such consideration is urgently required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u359	Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last week the media empathized public opinion on the mother of six children, whose bailiff took in the bank money from the 500+ family programme. It's taken 3,000. Evil was happy to return to the family, but only seemingly ended with a happy ending. The question remains whether the government has shown care and properly prepared the necessary legal solutions to protect against the execution of funds from the programme, or whether such appalling situations will recur in the existing legal situation. Earlier, the government publicly promised that the execution of this money would not be possible, but life verified these assurances very quickly. In the view of Kukiz15, the solutions prepared were insufficient. It is worth reminding here that the bailiff, carrying out the execution, determines whether the debtor has a bank account and then takes over the funds collected on it. From this point on, the execution of the class belongs to the bank. In response to bailouts, the bank either deducts money or informs the bailiff that there are no funds in the account. In the current legal situation, when the debtor is executed from the bank account, the debtor has no information on the source of the money. The money goes to the bank account, loses its identity on it. The law does not require banks to identify funds as coming from the 500+ programme. Although they have such knowledge in practice, the decision to limit execution always depends on the bailiffs' terms. These, in turn, do not know the source of the funds in the bank accounts. There's a Gordian knot built here. Currently, the only solution is the debtor's visit to the bailiff's office, where he makes a statement that he is a beneficiary of the 500+ programme, completes the application for limitation of the bank account and includes a printout from the bank account. On this basis, the bailiff shall restrict the seizure of funds. The debtor then transmits the letter of the bailiff to the bank and only from then on can the funds of the scheme be used safely. High Izbo! As it turns out, the burden of proving that money comes from the 500+ family programme has been shed on the beneficiaries of the scheme. It's too complicated and long-term for parents to take care of their children. In addition, given the low legal awareness of the Polish society, the case from Szczecin clearly shows that this is not a good solution. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I call on the government to prepare solutions that will remove this obligation from its citizens and at the same time effectively secure the funds of the 500+ family programme from execution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u361	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Augustynowska, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! So we start patching holes in the government's 500+ flagship program. It turned out that even giving away money wasn't that easy for you. The government likes to say that it is an investment in human capital. However, it is a pity that the beneficiaries of this investment were chosen in a different way from the one announced in the election campaign, and that all of us were forced to invest. The government doesn't have its money, so it takes it from us in the form of taxes, just to remind us, to waste some of it on administrative costs and to pump the rest back into society. The only real gain of such an operation is political gain. Contrary to what you write in the explanatory memorandum of the project, the 500+ programme does not encourage more offspring, does not reduce the risk of poverty, nor is it an investment in human capital. It's just that there's no evidence in the world. Such a provision does not merit the title of a family policy instrument. We could work together. Modern support would be given to the camp governing responsible multifaceted demographic policy in the fight against housing hunger, discrimination against women in the labour market, in the fight for the realization of paternity leave, for crèches and kindergartens, for a better collection of child support. These are the orientations to be implemented in the framework of family-friendly policies. Instead, the government is giving us all the horribly expensive redistributive systems of our own money. By correctly pointing out the country's over-indebtedness to the Civic Platform, at the same time you are introducing a programme costing over PLN 23 billion per year, which is mainly financed by one-off revenues from the LTE auction, which will not be available next year. The NBP's profit may not be so good either, unless you continue to apply your hands to the drop in the exchange rate of the zloty. What will the government do then? She's gonna start selling out foreign reserves? You're gonna call it the promotion of homemade gold? And yet the influences that save us this year, you've overestimated. Even under these unfavorable conditions, the Modern is trying to be a constructive opposition, and during the committee's work we applied to take account of the upper income threshold and the principle of equivalence. Unfortunately, at that time they did not meet with the approval of Law and Justice. As a result, you have led to an increase in not as much entrepreneurship as we wanted. Today, employees are asking employers to lower their income, and there is a gray area that we are trying to limit with other legislative measures, such as the amendment of the Labour Code, which we have just seen. Was the Law on State Aid in Raising Children written on the knee that it did not regulate such an obvious issue as the relationship between parenting and maintenance and family benefits under the Law of 28 November 2003 on Family Benefits? Can we give a better example of the fact that Law and Justice do not have a coherent concept of family policies? It may be felt that the broad consultation carried out by the Ministry was an art for art, and the misunderstanding of the operation of the bank account and the execution of it, which we will now legally correct, is slowly becoming an identifying mark of the current governing crew. The example comes from above. Let me remind you, Minister, that after the committee meeting I came to you and talked about this situation. Do you remember what you told me? It's gonna be okay. So today we have to work on it. Once again, we will make our amendments, hoping that this time we will be able to get the attention of the applicants before the next revision of the project will force us to reality again. That is why we are asking that the bill be sent to work in committee, where we will be able to refine this draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u363	Thank you. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u364	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present my position on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the law of the Family and Care Code and some other laws, print No 448. Ladies and gentlemen! In the election campaign, PiS spoke of the so-called. A good change. Change as it is, everyone sees. Even the horses found out about her. Eight years, ladies and gentlemen, you've been busting for power. So? You guys were so busy with that smacking, you couldn't even run your flagship campaign project without mistakes. That's how you're prepared. Shortly after the 500+ program came into force, the bullets appeared in it. Now you're quick to correct the missing program. Good, 'cause people wouldn't forgive you, but the problem is still. Too bad you can't see him. The problem is that your flagship project still has gaps, and it's only because of your political envy. In the last term, when the Minister of PSL Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz introduced the principle of gold for gold, you raised your hand for it. Now you don't agree to introduce this good rule into your 500+ program. Maybe then, when we voted for her, you didn't understand what it was all about, so I'm explaining it again. This principle will allow the most needy parents to benefit from state aid. If the parent exceeds the income threshold you set for the 500+ program, e.g. 20 zł, that according to our amendment will receive not 500, but 480 zł grants. Fair? Fair. At the same time, I remind you that the cost of introducing this amendment is less than 1/10 of the cost of the entire program, so your argument that it costs too much, you can put it between fairy tales, just like you told stories about there was no pro-family policy. Interesting that you voted, among others. for a thousand zlotys per child. It's lawnmower, Mr. Minister, who's made a mess of it and has been working successfully since January 1st. Dear, so-called. Good change, good thing you voted for the lawn mower. We will also vote for the 500+ presidential novel. However, I appeal to you: take advantage of the experience of your predecessors and extend the 500+ program to a good principle by PSL złotka za złotka. Do it not for us, but for the people who are waiting for this help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u365	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to speak again, I would like to invite you. I'll close the list after the first question. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are patching up the gap in the rules governing maintenance benefits in relation to the current 500+ family programme, hence the changes in the code that we are starting to process today. This is a good project. The change consists in indicating that the provision of education does not affect the scope of the maintenance obligation. This is intended to avoid possible discrepancies in the case law of family courts and to ensure that the provisions of the Law on State aid to raise children are applied. So I have questions. When will a gap be patched up that discriminates against the first child whose parents are only conditionally allowed to receive state aid? Will you prepare such a bill, a real change promised to Poles before the election? Will and when support the state's support in raising children to large families in which adult children are educated, students, seniors, and who are not entitled to benefit under the 500+ family programme, and families with very low incomes? Will the President stand on the side of the deaf and the blind, to whom the audiovisual fee will be charged? We need further laws promised to Poles before the elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u367	Thank you. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u368	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! It is with full approval that the proposal proposed by the President should be accepted, not surprisingly, that such a project also appears. From the very beginning, the Minister and the Government have announced that we will observe the operation of the programme, we will look at it, and at this scale there may be some circumstances that will indicate the need for amendment. And that's what happens. Perhaps this is not the last amendment. It's just that there are programs, new programs that don't calculate, they don't mimic any previous solutions. It's hard for me to refer to lawnmowers because how can you model yourself on a project and on a program that's 10 times smaller? In fact, the proportions are quite the other way. But I'm not going to go further than that. The project is very good both in reducing the income in determining maintenance and in the second part on blocking the collection of 500+ benefits from bank accounts. The question is whether, in this situation, to go a step further, because it is a situation where a given benefit under a provision is not subject to occupation and at the same time is collected from a bank account. There is a whole number of such benefits, even in this provision to which the proposal refers, in Article. 833 - there are already several different benefits that are not occupied and are collected from the bank account. What's more, [[♪ The bell ♪]] under the employment contract, the minimum remuneration is protected, so is the minimum remuneration, and it is also charged from the account. So, in this respect, it's a matter of wondering whether or not to expand this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u369	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u370	...also for other benefits that are not subject to occupation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u371	Mrs Bożena Henczyca, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u372	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The so-called amendment. The 500+ law was undoubtedly needed, but I have some comments from social assistance centres which implement this law. The biggest problem with witnessing is the pressure of time. Customers expect the payment of benefits as soon as possible, despite the fact that the aid centres are in theory 3 months old to process the application. The government and the media are also under such pressure. Frequent reports and daily monitoring are particularly burdensome - centres show how many applications have been adopted, how many decisions have been made and how many benefits have been paid. Such a quote: The main problems concern constant urgency despite the statutory deadline of 3 months for withdrawals. Every day until hours. 12 we need to report every week. In addition, we received a letter from the voivode for immediate delivery of benefits. The second point is that when accepting applications in the 500+ programme, it also turned out that many people who receive family benefits did not report income, which is associated with an additional conversion of their income and checking that the criterion on family benefits was not exceeded. Sometimes after the calculation it turns out that the recipient has unduly received benefits. Therefore, I have a question: Can we not simplify all these procedures and bureaucracy, as you promised [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a campaign? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Kostusz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u374	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The government assured us that the 500+ supplement would not be executed, and meanwhile we know that e.g. The bailiff from Szczecin took over this benefit. Are there more such situations in Poland? How are the recipients of 500+ benefits to be protected from similar situations? Next question. The National Chamber Council has reservations about the possibility for bailiffs to take part in the bailiff's service once the funds have entered the bank account that is already occupied by the bailiff. In the execution of bank accounts, the rules state that the deduction is subject to the cash in the account at the time of seizure and those which were not there but were paid in after the occupation. How does the government plan to solve this problem? Have the 500+ benefit funds ever been taken over and used to repay the debtor's liability? How are bailiffs supposed to know which funds have contributed to the 500+ account? And last question. Does the benefit currently received by a person from the 500+ scheme mean that the courts, when deciding to increase the maintenance allowance, dismiss such a claim because of the benefits received from the State? Was that the idea of applicants? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u375	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u376	Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! The 500+ project, ladies and gentlemen, has unfortunately been too fragmented, with a lot of problems, we are already updating the project itself after 3 weeks. Of course, we agree with this amendment, but I would like to draw your attention to another aspect of this project, namely the article. 209 Penal Code. I would like to remind you that this is the case: Whoever persistently refuses to exercise the obligation of care imposed on him by law or judicial decision by failing to maintain a loved one or another and thereby exposes him to the inability to meet the basic needs of his life shall be fined, punishable by a limitation of liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. Well, this article is so designed that it is not enough not to pay alimony for criminal liability, and this is very important, but it is necessary not to be able to do so. satisfaction of the so-called "supplies'. basic needs of life. In that case, will not an increase in the family budget by 500+ in many cases mean that we will not actually be able to punish very many for not paying alimony, because someone will refer to this increase in the life rate of his or her family's strict meaning or his or her children on which to lay? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u377	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Today's bill, which really affects two issues, two problems: the bailiffs and the 500+ programme itself, shows that pathologies, one can say so, unfortunately, have not disappeared recently, but are still ongoing, because in previous years the nonsense decisions of the bailiffs concerning tractor or car classes have experienced Polish society and unfortunately this problem is still present. I would therefore like to ask the Minister. The entire 500+ program is very well received in the Polish public space, families were waiting for this program, waiting and, of course, these funds are being used as deliberately as possible. It is a pity that the situation that you spoke of has occurred, but this non-life attitude of the bailiffs leads to it. I know, we all know, Minister, that there is a public consultation on the operation of 500+. They appear during these meetings, and I also attended these meetings in the field... They are raised in social assistance centers or by residents of various subjects, various problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean foster families. We're getting signals that there's been a problem with foster families, with the payment of these funds. Did the Ministry, analyzing...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u379	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u380	...thematics related to the operation of 500+, this problem also knows and predicts it to be solved? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u381	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. It refers to the fact that you wrote in the statement that you are referring to the fight against poverty, investment in human capital and that the provision of education will not affect the scope of maintenance obligations and will not reduce maintenance benefits. This is justified by these three elements, namely the risk of poverty, investment in human capital and the fact that families will increase their children's lives, that this will encourage families to have more children. I wanted to ask: How will the number of children in these families increase the number of children in which the education will not affect the scope of maintenance? It was in the first place that you exchanged. I can't imagine how the fact that a parenting benefit affects or doesn't affect maintenance can increase the number of children in these families. In this case, I'm not really imagining it. If the State justifies this in the first place, not in the second, not in the third, but in the first place, then I ask you to answer the question: What are the concrete estimates of childhood growth in families where the provision of education will not affect the scope of maintenance obligations? I'm curious if you've estimated the impact on children's growth. How many new kids are there gonna be? I would like to find out because this is the basic argument that you are raising. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u383	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Opposite! I say this more to the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. [[It's over there.]] Don't be black-sighted, folks. Don't be black-sighted. You had 8 years to introduce the best support program for Polish families. [[By the will of the sovereign twice.]] You were eight years old, and you didn't do anything. [[What about the crisis?]] You've introduced a higher retirement age, a tax on clothing and children's shoes. Augustine of Hippo said, "A mistake is a human thing, but voluntary error is a devilish thing. You're still wrong. I said, why? [[How many more of these comments?]] Mr Niesiołowski said yesterday that God created the world to fix Kaczyński. [[But don't lift a finger at us.]] [[I didn't say that.]] Sir, God created the world to save you with prayer and fasting. [[I didn't say that.]] On the other hand, the proposed change, the High Sejm, will improve the 500+ programme, the biggest support programme in the history of Polish parliamentarianism. [[Applause]] Mrs Henczyca is concerned that there are payment congestions. More than 2.5 million people have already submitted proposals. But the greed of the bailiffs is ruthless, that's a fact. I'm glad we all see it in this room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u385	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Bartosz Marczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I wanted to say and of course thank the President for this initiative, because I think it was because during the consultation with the Ministry of Justice we did not think that family courts would take into account the fact that the state supports families and pays 500 PLN and that they would be on the side of maintenance debtors. [[And doctrines.]] Honestly, we didn't expect family courts to apply this kind of practice. This is all the more surprising and painful for us, because we know that in Poland we have huge problems with the execution of alimony. I will remind you that to a maintenance fund, which is not addressed to all, every year affects about 15% of obliged persons themselves. . The rest is done by the state. Hence our gratitude to the President. Of course, we support this change, which will clearly point out to the family judges that they cannot say so, that if you pay 500 zlotys, the State is therefore required to do so for those who are absolutely obliged to pay child support for their own children. To be honest, as a father of a large family, it is extremely outrageous that my parents do not want to do this duty and yet use it and now report to the court that there is a 500+ program, and do not want to pay for their own children. Three more things. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that this issue, when it comes to execution, is an individual issue. We already have 2.2 million applications, 950,000. 3 / 1, 2 / 1, 1 / 1, 1 / 1, 1 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 1 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 1 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 1 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / 1, 2 / million benefits paid. We can't create such an impression that right now This is a huge problem, but of course it is a problem that needs to be considered and leaned down. Except here, the lady from Modern told me that I was on the committee and I told her it was gonna be okay. I don't use words like that and words like that, but we've been trying to protect it from the very beginning, and we haven't said that it's going to work out, and that's what at least three levels of protection against this execution show. The first level is that we have written directly in the Educational Witness Act that it is exempt from execution. Second level - we put directly in the Act that those persons who are in debt, the municipality is obliged, upon their request, to withdraw money in cash, therefore there is no problem of this unmarked transfer to the bank account. Finally, the third point I would like to inform you about. We have also introduced a third mechanism to secure this money from execution. Well, on 18 April, we sent to the Polish Bank Association all the numbers of the accounts from the municipalities, which we previously downloaded from the municipalities, from which the municipality pays 500 PLN. In turn, the municipalities were obliged to include in the transfer title an appropriate code, which says that this benefit is being paid for 500+. And the banks are already - at the moment - when the bailiff comes to them, they are checking whether the money that is paid with 500+ comes from this title, and they are not paying the bailiff that money. Szczecin, please pay attention, bailiff, it was actually human errors. The bailiff returned the money, confessed to it. Hence, we cannot be accused that we have not secured this issue from the very beginning. Now, of course, as the President's proposal is, the committee still needs to lean on it, see, technically analyze, also with the Ministry of Justice, and close this case. But you can't say things like that, it's a screw-up from the start. Three levels of security. I will repeat once again: release from execution, giving people the opportunity to withdraw money in cash and now technical, in agreement with banks, a solution that prevents really the execution of this money from the bank account, because they are already marked, are not meaningless, only marked. Finally, when it comes to learning and monitoring of this law, ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that covers nearly 3 million families, nearly 4 million children, affects 2.5,000. The municipalities are really affected by a very, very wide spectrum of different types of institutions, the various types of entities that pay out this money. Of course you can say that everything can be predicted, everything completely, and someone is infallible. But we can assume that if we see how the program works, we've been predicting it from the very beginning, we're going to make some adjustments in it, and that's what we're doing. Besides, we have also included such a provision in the bill that within 12 months, no later than 12 months, we will review this project and possibly correct it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u387	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Andrzej Dera.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! First, I wanted to thank you on behalf of the President for accepting this project. This project is not a 500+ patchwork, it's just a quick response to the practice we've been dealing with. Well, as the Minister said a moment ago, it was clear from the justification that it was clear from the law that the educational benefits of 500+ are secured, but that there is a dispute in doctrine, it is difficult to write it down in the law. It is simply difficult to write this down and to assume that, in such an adverse way, judges will support the doctrine which I think is in a large minority. I quoted the court's ruling, quoted the decisions of the international commission. There are clear records in there, but what can be done when someone doesn't like it? [[Clarify the law. Precisely, period.]] Therefore, this provision clearly eliminates this dispute. There will be no dispute, there will be a clear situation, these measures will be secured. One thing I have to say, because here by many of you it was questioned that in our justification there is a raised issue of childhood, children. I would like to draw particular attention to one Member, and I will remember him in a moment, yes, Mr Tomasz Jaskole, to read the justification carefully, because it is not as you suggested here, but we were quoting the justification for the project. And I'm sorry, maybe it's Mr. Piotr Wójcikowski, I'm sorry, he didn't understand. 'Cause for the project, we were serving... I'm sorry, Mr. Piotr Wójcikowski just questioned that, as it turns out, this childhood, from this project. Please note the record, we quoted the justification of the 500+ project. And now, a few months after the show came in, it's hard to say that it's affecting the kids so quickly. But I will give you the personal information that I received from a friend of mine who texted me the following text: Last year I had three baptisms - this indicates that there were three births in the parish - this year 11 women are expecting a child. I guess you can see the difference between three in a year and 11 in the first half of the year, the women who are expecting a baby, so... [[It's an exaggeration with optimism, Minister.]] But I'm not talking about optimism, I'm talking about a fact that was recorded in one parish. The question I ask myself is, is this a coincidence? I don't know. Time will tell. If that were the tendency... [[What I wish for Poland.]] Yeah, I'm just trying to be optimistic here. If this trend had been confirmed, if it hadn't been a single case... [[Voice from the room: The only statistical method.]] ...then everyone in this room should be happy. Really, we should all be happy because we as a nation can't get any better than having more children. [[Of course.]] Really, just be happy. If this bill were to result in this, we should all be very happy. [[More will go away, Minister.]] I will now try to answer a few questions that have been asked by your Members. Mrs. Margaret Navel asked about her first child. I would like to point out that President Andrzej Duda has pointed out from the beginning very clearly - and this is included in all of his public statements - that it is a programme that supports many children, i.e. the President always said that the second child and the next child should be supported. [[Oh, no, no, no, no.]] Check it out. That statement from the President, as you suggest, was not there. He's always been very clear about it. There's really a lot of evidence for that. [[For every child.]] The fact that the first child is there for profit is an additional thing that the government introduced. [[I wanted to be friendly. You really can't.]] It is good that in the case of those families where income is lower, there will be support from the state, because this solves the issue of poverty, and that was one of the major reasons for the shame we have had in recent years. More questions. Mr Waldemar Buda said to extend the safeguards. This project, when it comes to bank execution, has expanded it. We have increased this enough so that all these benefits which are mentioned in the article. 833, they were simply secured at the moment. There is also, of course, a question of remuneration which is not included in this catalogue. I would like to draw attention to the rules that are currently in force. At the moment, we have a record that the cash held in savings accounts, savings and settlement accounts and forward accounts, regardless of the number of contracts concluded, are free from seizure on the basis of a judicial or administrative executive title up to three times the average monthly salary in the business sector - that is what the rules say today. So to some extent, it secures these funds from remuneration. Let me remind you that since September there will be a change and we will have an even more precise record that says that it will be up to 75% minimum wage for work. Please note that under no circumstances - at the moment we are no longer talking about benefits, but about pay for work - it will not be possible to enforce this below a certain minimum, so that the person who earns can simply live so that execution does not cause the impossibility of existence. So that it is already secured in these current regulations. Mr. Thomas Swallow had doubts. I'll answer that. You suggested here that the person required to be a maintenance would be able to apply for a reduction... It is these changes that will make it impossible for her to rely on this when it comes to reducing the maintenance obligation. After these changes in the Family and Care Code, it will be clear from the record that this educational benefit does not affect maintenance obligations, so no one will be able to rely on this automatically to reduce maintenance, as you said here. The baby's well-being comes first. It cannot be said that at the expense of children - at the expense of the state in this case, because it is the state that pays, gives the money - parents can reduce their maintenance obligations. To sum up, High Izbo, thank you very much for your warm welcome. I ask you to work very quickly in Parliament so that these proposals come into force as soon as possible, because they will spare your parents the nerves. As you can see, there are cases like this. I hope they never happen again. If this bill, this amendment of the bill comes into force quickly, it will be calmer, it will be better and this money will go directly to the families. And I think that regardless of political connotations, each of us should care that the program - since it is already in operation - goes to those people who will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u389	Thank you, Minister. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u390	Dear Mr Andrzej Dero, Did I say that right? Andrzej Dera? [[He's a minister.]] My name is Rafał Wójcikowski. I hope you remember. I don't think the Member has fully understood me. Yes, you are quoting here the assumptions of your law, but I understand that the amendment to the law is de facto to correct. The State lists these assumptions so that we note that we are amending this law, which even better reflects the nature of the three reasons why this law is being implemented. And that's why I asked how, specifically, on the numbers, when it comes to the premise mentioned by you in the first place, it would be better if we passed this law. Because I understand that this will improve in terms of the second and third conditions, but in the first case it will not improve to the slightest extent. And as for the great priest who has a dramatic improvement in the number of christenings in the parish, I'm sorry, but that's not what I asked. I think I've been asking about some statistical data that you're predicting or designing, for example. In my parish, you know, the number of baptisms is steadily falling year by year, and so far nothing changes, but apparently we live in another geographical part of Poland. Perhaps you are more likely to turn off the electricity, sir, and this improvement is [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's more immediate. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the hall: But witty.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u391	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children aims to improve the material situation of children's parents and thus to increase their children's lives, not to maintain their current state of affairs. With reference to the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law of the Family and Care Code and some other laws, it is necessary to assess this project as justified in view of the need to establish clearly whether the financial support of the State, i.e. the parental, family and other children's money should be taken into account in determining the scope of the maintenance obligation and in determining the extent to which such measures are protected before enforcement of claims from the bank account. I would therefore like to ask questions. Will the adoption of the proposed amendment ensure the application of the Law of 11 February 2016 on State aid to raise children in line with the intention of the legislator? Will it facilitate the application of the above-mentioned law in accordance with the will of the legislator - without the need to reach out to this purposeful interpretation? Will the proposed amendment not be used to reduce maintenance charges and to help those who are obliged to do so? Will the proposal to exclude amounts not subject to bail-in from the bank account on the basis of a judicial or administrative enforcement title, the education provision, in fact, give the bank the opportunity to determine the origin of the funds?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u393	Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Act Family and caring Code and some other laws, contained in print No. 448, to the Extraordinary Commission on changes in codifications for consideration. I'm ordering a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 06 h 18 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 16. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Art (print No 460). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Fałkowski, to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The establishment of the Academy of War Art involves the need to make profound structural changes in the present National Defence Academy and has been preceded by a longer period of reflection and study work preparing these changes. Please note that, before we went to propose this law to the High House, it was almost 4.5 months. During this time, we first collected opinions about universities in both military and academic environments, then ordered two audits: the first of the officers of the General Staff who carried out such an analysis on my behalf, and the second audit carried out by an independent consulting firm who carried out this assessment and actually presented the report. It was only on the basis of these studies that we decided to present this proposal to the High House in the form of a bill. I would like to make it clear that the university, first of all, must be, in working language, enlisted, which is strongly linked to the army and its needs and in this direction... so it is necessary to adapt its research and teaching offer. The situation, as we all know, is very variable, changing very quickly, dynamically, poses completely new challenges for us. It must be made clear that the new types of aggressive behaviour and actions are very much blowing up the classic concept of war. Therefore, we must have such research centres, analytical centres and preparing the highest military personnel that will be able and able to effectively prepare our staff officers for these challenges. I want to make it clear that this college must have military students. We're going to be wondering what the number should be, that's the question of finding out for future evaluations. We also have reservations about the relevance of the courses in the current formula, which are directed to officers at higher levels, from the major up. We really want you to... Exit towards the needs of the General Staff, command of types of Armed Forces must be very clear, point, matched and at the same time fit in military careers. We also want to make it clear that there must be a well defined task of the university as a military unit. It's in the project, too. The Minister for National Defence must have a decisive impact on the performance of the university in the field of teaching and in terms of precisely matching its teaching profile, its tasks, which he carries out with regard to students and students, must have this decision both final and inspiring, showing the direction of these changes. I want to make it clear that this requires building a new structure. The establishment of the Academy of War Art based on the existing structure of the Academy of National Defence will complement and extend its existing teaching, scientific and research activities. We don't want to give up anything, I mean. The declaration of our intentions and intentions, including actions, is clear - we do not want to remove civilian students, nor do we want to give up the academic powers of this university. On the contrary, we want to raise these powers and we want to link this university in a full and very strong way with the best teaching and scientific centres of our allies, especially NATO, which is, in short, to open this university to the world and to influence from various research, analytical and expert centres in various Western countries. Conducting postgraduate studies corresponding to the needs of the Armed Forces, as well as training courses and trainings must be subject to the rigour of the activities and the course which the Minister of National Defence will determine. The last thing, I mean. increase the role and competence of the scientific and expert facilities. We are fully aware that in Poland there are at the moment many centres that conduct ongoing analyses of the situation both military and economic and political in various regions of the world. But the army wants to have its own centre, which will give these analyses in terms of military challenges, and at the same time, if there is another centre, competition will only help to increase the level of these analyses and increase the level of work carried out there. We want to make it very clear that these centres, which we will create and support, based on subsidies from the national defence department, are to meet the highest quality criteria and be confronted also with foreign centres. Here the competition itself, competition from Polish centers, as we think, is not enough. This is another element that requires a profound reform and a very clear impulse. And such a purpose was also reflected in the draft and justification of this law, which I ask the High House to adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u395	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Andrzej Smirnow, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The modernisation of our army is not only to equip it with state-of-the-art equipment and weapons, it is not only to modernise, rebuild our weapons industry, but also, and I think that, perhaps above all, it is to modernise the training of command and command staff at the highest level in the world, as well as to create a strong analytical and research facility, as the Minister mentioned. Such tasks must be carried out by military academic centres, including in particular the National Defence Academy, which should become the centre of strategic thought development. In the last 25 years, military schools have undergone changes similar to those of our entire Armed Forces, or more graphically, changes related to the shrinking of our Armed Forces. Several military universities have been wound up, some have been merged into one, but they have operated until 2005 under a separate military education system as defined by the Military Higher Education Act. And during this period, because of the lack of training of officers or at least the absence of contracts for such training, these universities became more and more civil universities. The Academy of National Defence was established in 1990 by the merger of the Academy of General Staff and a certain part of the Military Political Academy. These were two central military universities in the times of the Polish People's Republic. The Academy has maintained certain functions related to the needs of the military, in particular in the field of training and upgrading the qualifications of senior military officers. At present, however, at the Academy of National Defence, about 8,000 are educated in 10 Bachelor's degrees and 7 Master's degrees. purely civilian students. This, of course, is today's painting of the National Defence Academy. Recent years have not brought the necessary changes in the development of higher military education. The reform announced by President Bronisław Komorowski and the head of the President's National Security Office was to liquidate most schools. Fortunately, this reform has not been carried out. Paradoxically, in this case, the tardiness of the Ministry of National Defence in carrying out reforms prevented the implementation of very irrational and perhaps even destructive plans of the Presidential National Security Bureau. It should be noted, however, that the non-reforms and the planned liquidation of schools have hindered their development and thus limited their activities to areas which are very important for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. That is why we welcome the fact that you have made a quick decision by the Minister, that the government has prepared a law on the transformation of the National Defence Academy into the Academy of War Arts. The Act very clearly sets out further directions for the development of the academy. Of course, the current activity of the academy cannot change overnight. The specificity of academic institutions makes such changes take place over the next few years. Young people who are currently studying there will study and finish their studies in the current fields of study. The Academy will, of course, maintain the continuity of its activities, in accordance with the applicable law on higher education. However, new fields of activity of the academy, and in particular new fields of scientific activity of the academy, are already being implemented, as also mentioned by the Minister. The Act allows the development of a new university statute, new legal acts to adapt the structure of the academy to the tasks it will carry out in the near future. The provisions of this law give the Minister of National Defence [[♪ The bell ♪]] greater impact on the directions of development of the academy, which will contribute to better coordinating its activities with the needs of the Ministry and the General Staff in the process of education and research activities. I just wanted to say a few more sentences about the name of the academy. [[That's it. Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u397	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u398	I believe that this name is best characterized by the directions of action needed at the military university. Thank you very much. Of course, the Law and Justice Club fully supports this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u399	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to submit a motion to reject this harmful, very unnecessary, but also harmful act. I'm surprised that Professor Habilized... Did you have to say that? Are you in danger? For what reason? Nothing, nothing to justify, nothing to say, nothing to say, nothing to say. You said that basically everything stays the same, and a series of clichés, that experts would be good, that foreign contacts, that everything would be great, that you did an audit. Looks like audits have been a PiS specialty lately. What's the point of all this change, then, if everything stays the way it was? There were, of course, a lot of arguments in the Minister's origins - I will no longer quote it, because it is a waste of time - that the Academy will carry out its activities so far, training that everything will be the same, ensuring the performance of the previous defence academy tasks, etc. So, in short, the academy still has to do - only under the new name of the Academy of War Art - what the Academy of National Defence was doing. I must say that there is also a positive element in this, because in the context of the activities of Minister Macierewicz so far, this change is very little harmful. Mr Macierewicz is making clear progress because the destruction of intelligence, counter-intelligence, yesterday's performances in this Chamber, when he actually encouraged conflict, because the presentation by the Minister of Defence of the Polish State as a completely defenceless state, a disarmed state, a state which cannot defend itself, to put it mildly, is not reasonable. At the head of an absurd commission to prove a non-existent coup, and a thesis on the Smoleńsk assassination, which is Mr Macierewicz's crown argument... [[Okay, here's the thing.]] Don't interrupt me, buddy. ...an extremely harmful Minister of Defense, who should not perform this function on a single day... Against the background of what Mr Macierewicz is doing, this law is indeed a huge step in the right direction. If he works on this, mainly on changing the names of military universities, then Macierewicz's harm will be far less. However, this harm is clear, because here is the fact that the students are clearly not delighted with these important ideas. They petitioned the government, published their positions on social media, demanded to remain. As an academic teacher, Professor, which connects me with the Minister - it's probably the only thing that connects us on this matter, and I think that in others - I am very much concerned with the students' opinion and disregarding students' opinions is... [[Voice from the room: Mistake.]] ... To put it mildly, inconsiderate and unintelligible. We are also dealing with other activities, and I think there is the essence of this amendment. It is, of course, what is the specialty of the Law and Justice Government, that under the pretext of changing the name of the university, you become personal cleansings, you move to the universities of your people, your friends, your trusted, your officers. The following people are released at the moment - I will allow myself to name a few people, because that is really what this is all about - professors: Stanisław Koziej, Bogusław Pack, Piotr Gawliczka, Zbigniew Sabak, as well as the first Polish commander in Iraq, former ambassador and Head of Mission of the European Union General Andrzej Tyszkiewicz and Brig. Gen. Krzysztof Parulski, military prosecutor. These are actions, I have to say, which are really what this is all about. It fits into the worst possible scenario, completely incomprehensible, because all of this could be done calmly, in the March scenario. Mr Macierewicz comes to this... Even in March 1968, universities were not liquidated, but departments, e.g. Faculty of Philosophy and Sociology at the University of Warsaw. So, Mr. Macierewicz, you've come a long way: from Trotskysta to Pawsudczyk, a trade union activist to a March activist who's been decommissioning the university today and employing March pennies. Here's an example. Professor Tomasz Żyro has been running for dean at this university several times, but apparently the university does not appreciate, the electors underestimate Mr Żyra's competence and do not want to choose him as dean, so the name of the university is changing, and Mr Żyro will now be able to take up this function by giving the minister. Yeah, well, congratulations, by the way. The name of the university will be changed and probably the outstanding The PiS activist will take over the function at this university. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] I request on behalf of the Civic Platform Club that this harmful and unnecessary bill be rejected at first reading. I'm submitting an appropriate motion to the marshal. Thank you very much, High Izbo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u401	Thank you. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u402	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I did not know that I would speak after such fiery words, because I would probably be better prepared to speak, and I would point out how many military units have been wound up as part of the reorganisation under the Civic Platform's rule, how many new structures have been set up. [[In America, the blacks are beating.]] And it's all for our own good. Certainly the barracks in Ciechanów, which stand empty, are the result not pure, but such a very crystal and much needed organization. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are not dealing with some big issue of the fact that there is a transformation. Of course, in some ways, the Member is right. There will be a new organization, new people will be admitted to this organization and the Academy of War Art will be established in place of the old academy. I don't think this is the discovery of America. That's what you do everywhere, that's what reorganizations of different kinds of legal organizations are all about. We're not surprised here. As for the change of name, there is nothing to hold on to, because it was Mr Rola-Żymierski who in 1947 established this academy with his comrades and this academy in most of its time focused mainly on training Russian soldiers as well as the People's Polish Army. I don't see any great yearning for it sometimes. In addition, I would like to say that the Academy in the 1970s and 1980s was used to educate officers so that they could become senior officers so that they could move to higher levels of military career, and today it's basically gone. The rank of the academy was, so to speak, minimized in principle to the level of the normal military school in which he learns, who wants, and the dream of such a man is e.g. To be a soldier in the future, so he goes to the academy. Once upon a time, there were officers' schools of common rank. With regard to the history of this school - here the Minister, Mr Smirnow, spoke about this story - in 1990 the merger and liquidation of two schools, including one political school, was formed the Academy of National Defence, which really expires in front of everyone. If there is to be a reorganization impulse, if this impulse is to bring new staff to the Polish Army, trained not according to the Russian version, but according to the version of our Polish martial art, then I am in favour of it and I see no obstacles, there is no need to reorganize, if it is to bring only good, to stand on the road. There's no need for that. The Polish Army needs a new spirit - and it is clearly visible because we drive and hear - and a new one, in such a new edition of officers, which is trained for slightly different principles than it was done to this day. I'm talking about this because I think I have the authority to do this, and in fact the doctrine of a friend from the West and the lack of a friend from the East is nothing more than a version of numbing people. We're a nation that's been inside for years, and it's being attacked from the East as well as from the West. I hope the West doesn't sharpen our teeth this time. The Academy of War Art should fulfill all the advantages of the modern West Point Academy, created on the basis of Polish military history, and we have very rich traditions, with dignity needed today by everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u403	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u404	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government proposal for a law on the creation of the Academy of War Arts, included in print No 460. In the Sun Tzu Treaty, the art of war is a significant text that forces us to think if we have any trouble reading it. This text is as follows: War is of the utmost importance to you, the matter of life or death, the path leading to survival or fall. It is therefore necessary to devote serious studies to it. It is estimated that the treaty was created about 600 B.C.E., but the words were not meaningless. A state which is or wishes to be aware and significant participants in at least a regional business game must certainly take seriously the formation of its military force, to participate in alliances, but also to a number of issues affecting military capabilities in general. One of the areas of shaping these capabilities is, of course, all kinds of military schools and the most important military university in the country, because no one will take such care to properly shape the Armed Forces as well trained, familiar with the latest achievements of war art, with the latest technologies and aware of the demands of the modern world officers - officers devoted to the Republic of Poland, devoted to society, not political option. However, a good change of Law and Justice does not want serious substantive debates on the direction of the development of the Armed Forces. You kidnap us with the concept of a continuous guerrilla war with a possible invader, you make us believe in the saving power of a slightly armed infantry made up of kibola and nationalists. Poland will defend the craps and nationalists whose first enemy are fellow citizens. [[Voice from the hall: Certainly not you.]] This is supposed to be the new Polish Army under the flag of Law and Justice. Let us not look far in history for the effects of similar actions. Finally, Law and Justice holds another staff and name show, connected with the most important military university in the country. Because when we press this project like a lemon, our eyes will see a simple human carousel with a change of name in the background. What is this important defence business that tells the Polish state to throw out the experienced staff of the most important military university in the country? Who's Law and Justice gonna hire there? I'm afraid of the answers. This must sound from this stand: the Law and Justice action on the abolition of the National Defence Academy is a shot in the foot when it comes to training Polish defence personnel. And you will be responsible for this paralysis, and I hope it doesn't end in disaster. About the objectives of the academy Tells us art. 2 projects. Here's another question for the Minister. I read this article very carefully and can't find even one word describing a task that the National Defence Academy couldn't do. Minister, to be honest, who is it? Which employee, by name? Because if anyone has doubts, first of all, the tasks of the current academy are essentially the tasks of the new academy, the property of the current academy becomes the property of the new academy, the structure of the current academy becomes the structure of the new academy, the authorities of the present academy become the authorities of the new academy, even the toilet paper passes. The only difference apart from the name is visible in Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. Two, four. This is a brutal trial with the staff of the National Defence Academy, a brutal trial with experience that affects the training of defence personnel. We don't believe in this change. The law and the psychic justification bring nothing but wishful thinking and a brutal trial with the staff. We believe that this is just another act of disaster for the country of the Polish political strategy, which consists in pretending to shape a new quality by systematically undermining the achievements of the state and citizens, by changing names and personnel cleansing, that is all that this project brings. Dear Government! Dear Law and Justice! What you are doing in the field of national defence is not a serious study on the military capabilities of Poland, it is a circus on caterpillars. On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern application for rejection of the government's draft law on the establishment of the Academy of War Arts, included in print No 460, at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u405	Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u406	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why are you changing the name of the National Defence Academy to the Academy of War Arts? After all, in the name of the Academy of National Defence is the word "nation," which you like so much and which you introduce in other units, where these organizational changes are needed. You also have the word "defense," not "war." Why do you have elements that can scare the public or even irritate our neighbors? This is not necessary in any way, because if you want to change the structure of the university, if you want to change the regulations, the statutes, then you can do it by keeping the old name, there are no obstacles. Unless it's about staff matters, but say it directly, don't hide it under the cover of those empty words that we heard here from the Seym Court from Mr. Secretary of State, the Minister, because there's no need for that. Play open cards. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I apply for the rejection of the bill at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u407	Let's get to the questions. Please, if any of your fellow Members would like to join the floor, I would like to invite you. [[Yes.]] I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Paweł Suski from the Civic Platform has a voice. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u408	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is another summit of hypocrisy of the ruling party. Law and Justice don't tell the truth why they're taking this bill. It is another staff tornado of the PiS mill. PiS introduces another law that allows for simple, ruthless, unceremonious, dramatic dismissal of teaching staff, as well as employees of the National Defence Academy. And that is the only real, extremely dramatic purpose of this change. Analyzing it, it is clear that basically beyond the name and solution of the previous university nothing changes, and the effects of this next good change will be mourned. You don't respect, among other things. Students, after all, they study at the National Defence Academy. They chose this school, they chose no one else. Why would you want to throw them in a boiler like this, a factory of ambition? Minister! Who else are you gonna fire from the National Defense Academy, how many teachers and employees? Is there any chance that your desires, and I'm asking Minister Antoni Macierewicz here, will ever be satisfied with revenge? I mean, you've already slowed down a lot of respected professors, but obviously that's not enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Looking at this PiS staff apocalypse, I get the feeling this isn't gonna end until you guys are in charge. In destroying people, you're...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u409	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u410	... Just unsatisfied. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u411	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Analyzing the purpose and scope of the newly created Academy of War Art on the basis of the justification of the project, it is difficult to resist the impression that it is actually a transformation of a well-functioning, with great traditions of the Academy of National Defence. This is a change of name: from defense to war. The new name of the academy is interesting, especially in light of what the minister from that stand was talking about yesterday. I think it's a distinct resemblance. I have a question. Why isn't the Minister proposing a change in the National Defence Academy, just choosing a very expensive liquidation procedure? I don't think we have a problem with this question, because the main objective is to exchange staff thoroughly. No one has any doubt that this is not the case. I have a question about the financial consequences. In the whole of the explanatory memorandum, there is no statement at all on the financial consequences and sources of funding for these effects, and it is clear that - what even the Act contains about staff changes or the dismissal of workers - are necessary [[♪ The bell ♪]] The check-in money. What are the sources of funding for this costly undertaking? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u413	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u414	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Now in place of the National Defence Academy, universities with established positions and traditions, we create the Academy of War Art. The new name will not be recognizable in the national and international environment. [[The Soviets didn't recognize it.]] With defence and security in mind, this name introduces a bad climate, referring directly to war. The explanatory memorandum states that the Academy of War Art will ensure the performance of the existing tasks of the Academy of National Defence, but taking new responsibilities in response to the challenges of the modern world. I would like to ask if the present National Defence Academy does not perform such duties. Looking back at a similar type of procedure, you can safely say that there is a massive exchange of staff at the National Defence Academy in the Ministry's plans. Is this a good change and improvement of the system, or is it just cleaning and filling another institution with your people? I'd like to ask if the Ministry of National Defence will change its name, for example. to the Ministry of War. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Yours was the Ministry of Peace, just like Orwell's.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u415	Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u416	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We have already observed that the reconstruction of institutions into those which are based on the personal ties of trust of President Kaczyński, on people, totumphatic Laws and Justice, is a priority of this government, and the statutory stubbornness of the state apparatus - the chief method of most rulers. The change in the name of the Academy of National Defence to the Academy of War Art will also bring mainly the mass exchange of personnel. Why, at the expense of the interest of a strong minority, would you like to turn us all to the PRL's nomenclature of the Academy of Internal Affairs, the Esbecko-Military University? What's the point? Why do you restore us before 1989, a country with aggression and war in the name of a university? Do you even consider protesting students who protest this change? Can't you see that this is a change of birth from the times of the Polish People's Republic? Don't go that way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Do you remember the PRL?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u417	Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz, 15 has the floor. [[But you remember, because you were in the army at the PRL.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to Mrs Navel's speech about changing the name of the ministry, it should be called the Ministry of Love, as in Orwell's case. [[To speak, you need to know something.]] On the other hand, as far as the question is concerned, I would like to ask you completely seriously. The new academy will no longer be the academy of Marshal Voroshilov. The Academy of War Art reminds me more of Sun Tzu, but we'll see, maybe it'll take a name, maybe it'll be a new opening. [[Macierevich.]] On the other hand, I am referring to expert centres conducting research on the geopolitical situation. I consider this to be a very important novelty. I'd like to know more. either from the rapporteur, or from someone who will be able to give me more, more information on this subject, because the explanatory memorandum only mentions this in one sentence. I believe that the issue related to the examination of the geopolitical situation and in general the geopolitical strategy has so far been completely ignored in research in Poland and there are no more important publications on this subject, even Mackinder is not translated. So I'd like to know more because I think it's a very good step. For example, in view of this direction of development, I fully support the proposal that you are proposing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u419	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! My question also concerns staff matters. I say this with regret, because we do not find enough substantive points in this law. Perhaps the Minister would like to extend this subject a little further in his speech so that we can have more knowledge. The question concerns Article. 5 laws and it's very specific. In this article, I would like to remind you that the employment relationship with the workers in question, i.e. employees of the National Defence Academy, expires two months after the entry into force of the Act. This provision has already been found in several amendments by Law and Justice. That's exactly what I remember from the Civil Service Act. I've put together an interpellation on this matter. I have received a reply from Minister Beata Kempy, which shows that in 1500, 1580, in order to quote the exact numbers, members of the civil service corps, i.e. those who take up higher positions in the civil service, more than 500 people have lost their jobs, i.e. one in three people in the civil service have lost their jobs. Minister, what will be the situation here? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I understand you're having a detailed audit. How many people at the National Defence Academy are gonna lose their jobs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[All those who aren't from the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u421	Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Academy of War Art is to be a university that meets the current and prospective needs of the Armed Forces. It is to offer modern strategic studies related to the security and defence of the state. That's what I read in the explanatory note. He's supposed to educate commanding, staffing, and logistics staff. The Minister said that it would be a university that would expand its scope, that it would have a wider range of tasks than the present National Defence Academy. I'd like to know how he's gonna expand, what tasks he's gonna do. That's my first question. I would also like to know if the Ministry envisages reorganising other military universities and if there are plans to restore the activities that the previous government has closed down military universities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u423	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I can honestly say that I don't envy your role, Minister, because it's not an easy task to company your boss's psychic ideas. One more thing hurts me: President Kaczyński divided society, while Minister Macierewicz does a very bad thing: he divides the Polish Army into those who received a promotion for PiS, and those who received a promotion not for PiS. This is simply unworthy, because all the military have vowed one country, one, and we have no right to share it with this PiS-owska and non-PiS-owska. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u425	Mr Wojciech Kossakowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! One of the basic responsibilities not only of the government, but also of all the citizens that the opponents seem to have forgotten about, which concerns the establishment of the Academy of War Arts, is to ensure common security. This is all the more eloquent in the face of events in Brussels, Paris or Russia's aggressive actions. I am surprised at the allegations that the implementation of the proposed amendments is only intended to lead to staff cleansing. We're hearing a divorce over the name of the university. And why it is not emphasized that the Academy of National Defence currently has more than 8 thousand. Civil and no military listeners? This is not a normal situation. Look in this context at the Royal Military Academy in Sandhurst, UK, which is one of the most elite military universities in Europe, with traditions dating back to 1741. It only deals with training of military professionals. Ladies and gentlemen! The project is undoubtedly aimed at providing the Polish army with modern strategic studies in the area of security and defence of the state. To conclude, I would like to ask the applicants: Will the proposed changes result in a reduction in the employment of the current staff of the National Defence Academy, including administrative staff? If so, to what extent? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u427	Thank you. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a specific question about the academy, but I was inspired by Mr Suchoń of Modern. Mr President, I feel it is my duty to make you aware of something. I advise you not to insult the fans and the nationals, because when it comes down to it, they will defend you. Thank you. [[Game in the hall, applause]] [[I'm sure you do.]] [[Voice from the room: Question is, do we first...]] [[The question is, who are they gonna be defending from? Maybe in front of him.]] [[Voice from the room: All you had to do was distance yourself from those catastrophic...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u429	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It must be made clear today that there is no doubt about this bill. There's no need to wonder what the essence of this project is. There's no doubt about it. The aim of this project is to introduce our own people to this high school. The National Defence Academy will be transformed into the Academy of War Arts. This new university will have exactly the same tasks as the previous university. Anyone who speaks in this case, referring to some communist period, should know, because it is necessary to know, if it is to be heard, that the National Defence Academy, the present university, operates under the Law on Higher Education, is not just a military school - it is an open university and was founded several years ago on the basis of the Academy of General Staff. This high school has a recognised brand, has great interest in students, educates soldiers, because this is its core activity, in second and third degree studies and deals with the entire system of professional improvement of soldiers. Today we have the shameful activity that Mr Niesiołowski referred to. Even during the communist period, the entire university was not liquidated to break the resistance of the academic community. Plenipotentiary of the Minister for National Defence [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Antoni Macierewicz, Professor Żyro, was not elected dean even though he was reported twice - the dean's council rejected this candidate and... [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u431	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u432	...the way to introduce this candidate to the dean's post is to eliminate the university.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u433	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u434	You're putting your hand to a disgraceful thing. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u435	Please, the question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we read that one of the reasons for the founding of the Academy of War Art is to provide professional soldiers with the possibility of obtaining the qualifications necessary to take up office positions requiring special competence, especially in the field of war art, but we can continue to read that all existing forms of vocational education and training are planned to continue. Where, then, is this new quality in training soldiers? Or just a change of name? [[It's just that.]] There are now more than 7,000 in first degree studies at the Academy of National Defence. Civil listeners. How, then, does the Ministry of National Defence want to increase the number of military students, continuing all forms of education so far? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u437	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Cieślinski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The introduction to the project and its justifications do not give any substantive reasons for the appointment to replace the National Defence Academy of the new military university called the Academy of War Art. In March, the Senate of the National Defence Academy referred negatively to the draft law, raising the fact that the proposed law does not in practice change anything about the mission and tasks carried out by the university. Therefore, there are obvious questions, questions that have already been asked from this speaker today, but I will deliberately repeat them with the hope that the Minister will address them specifically and substantively. Namely, what, apart from the new name, changes the proposed bill? What will be the actual costs associated with the implementation of the project and whether the civil servants of universities - according to the project their employment relations will expire at the beginning of September 2016. - will not become another victim of the so-called. A good, or rather mean, change? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u439	The question is now asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u440	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you two questions. The preamble to the Act states that the Academy of War Art, hereinafter referred to as "Academy of War," a military university corresponding to the current and forward-looking needs of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, is being established. I would like to ask you a question: What are the current and forward-looking needs that the existing academy cannot provide, which is highly assessed both at home and abroad? This is not visible in the project, also in the explanatory memorandum, and therefore I would very much ask for an explanation of what these are, which are so new, I do not know, innovative, that this cannot be done by changing priorities. Second question. I would like to ask the Minister to explain how many employees are involved in the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 2, how many employees within the meaning of this provision are employees of the National Defence Academy and how many workers will be released. Finally, I would like to add that you will understand very well that the issue of priorities for each activity is always an open matter, but you will not improve anything - I apologize for the colloquialisms - by smashing and firing out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u441	The question is asked by Mr Michał Jach, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u442	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, ever since communism fell, I have been hoping that universities will be built in Poland in line with those in the West they dream of and on which young people, our officers, want to study. Especially I thought that the National Defence Academy, Polish officers, Polish scientists had a great role to play here, because I suspect that no other nation can understand the mentality of the Russians so well, the main threat in Europe, the mentality, Russian tactics, the strategy of the Russian troops. Even until now, officers who were studying in Russia, I thought that their skills would be used, that there would be a training center for officers of our allies who would learn Russian mentality, Russian strategy. However, according to my knowledge, there were no comprehensive studies there, I do not know, about Russia, about Russian troops, little of that, no comprehensive studies. That's why I have a question, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have any knowledge that at the Computer Simulation Center and War Games...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u443	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u444	...the database had data on the Russian army, and have they ever been used in simulations during training? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u445	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Andrzej Smirnow, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This time I will confine myself to the task of the prime question of the Minister. Does the Minister have information that until recently, in the plans of President Bronisław Komorowski and General Koziej, who led the National Security Bureau, was the idea of excluding the academy from the Ministry of National Defence as a university, which is simply not useful there? That's my question. And if the Minister had no information on this matter, I believe that Minister Mr Mroczek can provide the Minister with information on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u447	Thank you very much, sir. Thus, the list of members of the vote has been exhausted. Mr Wojciech Fałkowski has the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You will allow me to stay tone, academic style against the voices of one Member in particular, who very much, so to speak, has vented his emotions, especially his relative to one person. If some of you have the impression that the changes will not be that these changes are really apparent and we want to continue everything, and wondered why we are doing it, because the only thing that is human change is that perhaps this misunderstanding was due to the style and calmness of making a point. I want to be clear: staff changes will be, of course, yes. School, every high school, every university, every academy, is based on people. This is the basic component of the value of the university and this is the basic component of how it works. Programs, software bases, labs, equipment for these labs, administration these are just extra things, so the clear thing is that we're supposed to take care of the teachers, we're supposed to take care of those who run the classes. That's the basic thing every college does, and every college changes staff. There is no such university in the world, and also in Poland, which would not change every year in some percentage, sometimes slightly smaller, sometimes slightly larger, staff, these changes occur. Ladies and gentlemen, you are criticizing the change of name. I will move on to this issue for a moment. In fact, by all Members of the opposition, it was suggested that this is an annoyance of neighbors or other powers by a term referring to war: the Academy of War Art. So what? War school, war academy, is it supposed to be a school that teaches play in the sandbox? Does that mean he's supposed to do nothing but stroke a bear and wonder how good it is that God forbid he does anything wrong? Why don't we just defend ourselves a little bit because we're gonna prepare something? No. The defense is that, among other things. consider options for tough, violent and violent aggression. Then we are dealing with a classic type of war, not to mention the fact that the types of war, at the moment we see clearly, is very many intermediates. There's no way we can pretend it doesn't exist. That's the other thing. Now I'm going back, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going by that name, linking it to the subject of a lot of staff changes. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we can say that we refer to the Military Political Academy, we can say that we refer to the creation that General Rola-Żymierski created, but we want to refer to the Higher War School, to what was established in 1919. Well, part of politics or formation, because a war school is supposed not only to educate, but also to form officers, to shape their character and moral attitudes... If we want to do this, the tradition we refer to is important, just as important as war craft and as important as military knowledge. So that is also the reason why this name takes into account the adjective of the war. This is a reference to the Higher War School, to the generation that passed the exam during the September campaign and later the entire years of World War II and the conspiracy after this war. So the clear thing is that people whose moral level, ethical attitude and ideal attitude do not meet this requirement cannot work at this university, it is a clear matter. You ask me how many people will be fired. I have no idea. Minister, I don't think me or anybody else is gonna take care of these things. There will be a rector, there will be a new rector college, there will be new deans and they will make these decisions. If you think that staff changes are not meant to be, because behavior and structure, and the entire staff is the highest good, then I say straightaway: no, this is not the highest good. We will judge people not according to their political attitude, how they voted in elections, but on the basis of three criteria: military qualifications, military crafts, intellectual and scientific levels and moral attitudes. All three things are to be counted. If someone meets the first two criteria and the third one fails, it disqualifies him, [[Applause]] Because a soldier who doesn't have the right moral attitude isn't practically a soldier. He can do a great gun operation and be a killer, so it's pretty clear. You say it was a well-functioning school and a recognized brand. So we differ in our views, we differ in our judgements. I'm an old academic professor who's been watching for years. I know well that it is difficult to assess the level of higher education and each school, that these are not hard and rigid criteria and indicators that can be taken into account, but I want to make it clear that, however, a certain community opinion plus the opinions that we ordered in audits clearly indicate the need for profound structural, programmed, but also staff changes. The question is, what percentage of people is nonsense. There won't be a percentage of the names or a specific list of names. Here are the names of people, some of whom just, at least, wanted to make this university their own farm or farm, I'm going to use that term. So? Should they have stayed? Should they still be teaching? To transform a state university to educate top-level staff officers into its own private farm in terms of its interests, its social network and its affairs? [[Voice from the hall: But you don't have to eliminate the university for that.]] Mr President, we are not shutting down the university. It has been drawn here by a few Members that we are eliminating, that we are destroying, here is the term: you are destroying and destroying. No, it's not. It's this accusation that nothing's changing, that's the best proof that we're not destroying it right now. Once you accuse us of destroying, and twice you accuse us of nothing changing. So what do you say? It's either that or it's the other way around, isn't it? So what I'm trying to say is that every high school is a delicate matter. We will not be moving this in the sense of sudden changes, but profound structural changes will be. They have already begun and will continue, and this law is intended to allow this to happen in a non-conflict manner, maintaining the academic rights of students. No provoking student protests will come out because we want to keep these students, we want them to finish their studies, and we want civilian students at this academy to be. A civilian student brings in a different lifestyle, a different way of being, a different attitude, causes a certain worldview attack. Very well, they have to be. On the other hand, the proportion of these students for military purposes, both students and students, must be changed, especially with regard to the highest officers, I am thinking here and about courses, and about various types of training, which should be included in the path of promotion of the professional army. We're thinking about it, and we want to restore the title of a certified officer. [[Applause]] This university is meant to serve this purpose and enable it. What else was there to ask? There won't be any paralysis. What was mentioned here is absolutely excluded. What we're doing right now is calm, methodical and without sudden movements. There will be no rematch, there will be no witch hunt. That's not the goal, that's the way we do things. Second thing. I encourage you to discuss this subject in academic style, in a way that, so to speak, clear thinking about how to do well so that this university is actually a university that is actually developing and developing to the highest level. I want to make it clear that we will not hesitate to make profound changes to the program. It is to be a university that will take into account the latest military, war thought, which is developed in various centers of the West and East also, foreign, on an ongoing basis. Ladies and gentlemen, in the center of the simulation - did such a question arise - were the simulations associated with Russian aggression used? To be honest, I don't know, sir, but I don't believe it. The fact that maneuvers are being invoked or that no maneuvers are being carried out so as not to irritate Russia is a clear indication also for lower officers and lower military levels, so that, God forbid, such simulations and such planning should not be taken into account. Excuse me, so what's the point of this school, then why all the analytical cells? After all, we see what's going on in the East, and if we don't take it seriously or at all as a threat to us, that means that these facilities aren't worth a pound, and that's the best proof that they should be solved. We're not solving, we're not destroying this academy, we're transforming it, and we're restructuring it deeply. It is the previous government that has dissolved the Military Medical Academy and we have the effect that we lack doctors and we are in poverty because we do not have military doctors, and regardless of the fact that of course we recruit and want civil doctors, we want... [[This isn't the previous government.]] But... Okay, you're right, sir, not the previous government... [[Voice from the room: You have to be precise.]] ...but the consequences of the destruction, i.e. the elimination of WAM, are visible to this day. However, the previous government actually, and it is certain, planned to massage all military universities in one pier by losing their identity, flooding into one, so to speak, a boiler. Why, I don't really understand. But that was the plan, sir, and that was the plan of the previous government. You can't deny it here anymore, because it's true, it was. And that's what we don't want again. As far as all these universities are concerned - here I answer the question that has been asked - we want these senior officers' colleges, all five of them, to be maintained. We want to change them towards giving them a higher rank, a higher status, also an adjustment and an increase in military subsidies, but they will all be maintained. However, the restoration of the wounded Military Medical Academy is not anticipated. It's too hard, too long-term. At the moment, we will be looking for a strengthening of the military medical department at the Medical University of Łódź and solutions consisting in either recruiting civilian doctors for military training, or simply using their services. That's the point. Yes, it is a little complicated, and we will lean on it with deep concern. The question was, what are the expert centres going to be? At the moment we are planning to set up three centres, the subject of crisis action or crisis as a political and war phenomenon, a military centre, a research centre on post-Soviet space and an analysis centre in the Far East. The choice here is also linked to people we could hire. But this, I think, in the near future, does not exhaust the list of these centers. I'm sure you'll need a facility to analyze the situation in the world of Islam, that's for sure. But this is all a matter that cannot be presented either from the Seym Court or in a short speech. It is also a question of thinking about cast, about programme, about finances. What will be the financial impact? This will be the financial impact that the university will bear in its budget and financial capacity this year, while next year the MON-Own grant for the Academy of War Arts, as well as for other senior officer schools, must be increased. I would like to make it clear and declare on behalf of the Ministry: The situation in which military universities are left to themselves and must fight for their survival by recruiting every civilian student who appears encouraged by a name or location, the location of this university, because this civilian student is followed by a subsidy from the Minister of Science and Higher Education, such a situation cannot be repeated. The military school must be supported by a solid subsidy from the Ministry of National Defence and this is a thing that we will raise very clearly. This can't be right. [[Applause]] And one last thing. However, I wanted to stand very strongly against these terms which fell here in relation to territorial defence: that these are different bullies, kibolas, etc. Those are words that shouldn't rain. These are assessments that are emotional accents, not arguments. These are invectives, not clear messages and analysis. It shouldn't be like this, ladies and gentlemen, and it can't be. Territorial defence is a concept that is clearly meant to bind the military to the citizens, to take advantage of the enthusiasm and opportunities of a broad body of civilians and volunteers, and the reservists, and people willing to train. As this works, we will analyze it on an ongoing basis and we will improve and improve this model. On the other hand, to judge against faith and at the moment to shower insects and designs and initiators only because you are from another political camp, this is a thing that should not happen. Please don't do such things, at least in front of me. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u449	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The discussion requested that the draft law be rejected at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws (print No 451). I ask Mrs Agatha Borowiec to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u450	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present to the High House a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. The aim of the proposed law is to increase the transparency of the criminal process by strengthening the constitutional principle of transparency of the hearing in criminal proceedings and by linking the possibility for representatives of the mass media to record and transmit the hearing with the transparency of its conduct. To this end, the proposed law limits the scope of the admissible exemptions to the disclosure of the hearing on the basis of a condition of important private interest, introduces the possibility of challenging the court's decision on the disclosure of the hearing and excludes the possibility of a priori refusal to allow the proceedings to be established and transmitted by media representatives. High Izbo! In the Polish legal system, transparency of the hearing is a fundamental constitutional principle. It shall be applicable in all judicial proceedings. Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 only in enumerative cases allows exceptions to the principle of transparency, i.e. for reasons of morality, state security, public order and the protection of private life or other important private interest. The principle of transparency qualifies as an element of the right to court, i.e. the right of an individual to a fair and public trial in which its rights are settled or in which criminal charges are brought against it. In its external dimension, which includes the possibility of taking part in the hearing of the public, the principle of transparency is intended to ensure the verification of the external compliance with the law of the court and to ensure the exercise of the rights of the parties involved in the proceedings and thus constitutes one of the guarantors of the integrity of the process. Publicity of the case also promotes the presentation of the right attitude of the judge vis-à-vis the parties involved in the proceedings, counters the establishment of incorrect ones, because they do not respect the seriousness of the justice system and the dignity of the judicial office, relations with the participants in the proceedings, favoring or discriminate against one of the parties and thus, High Izbo, shapes the trust and positive image of the justice system in society. In view of the above, exceptions to the principle of transparency should be interpreted restrictively, i.e. to the extent necessary for the implementation of the principles of a democratic rule of law. If it's the organist in the mouth. Article 2 45 of the Constitution has merely indicated the possibility of excluding the transparency of the case in the enumerative cases mentioned, which means that the ordinary legislature has the right, but not the obligation, to transfer the exemptions of disclosure to the level of regulation of specific procedures laid down therein. This is also confirmed by the existing wording § Article 1 360 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which contains only a catalogue of permitted exemptions from the principle of transparency of the criminal process. The State's security and public policy objective is broadly consistent with the content of the condition set out in point 3 (1) of Article. 360 k.p.k. - the threat of disclosure of circumstances which, on account of the important interest of the State, should be kept secret, and in paragraph 1 § Article 1 360 k.p.k. - the threat of disturbing public peace. The constitutional condition for the admissibility of the exclusion of disclosure for reasons of morality corresponds, in substance, to the criminal procedural condition indicated in point 2 § Article 1 360 k.p.k., as well as the reason for the threat of an important private interest, is paragraph 4 § Article 1 360 k.p.k. However, in the current version of the Criminal Procedure Act, the grounds for the protection of the private life of the parties, which in the catalogue of constitutionally permissible restrictions of disclosure, constitute a condition separate from that of an important private interest, have been omitted. In the legislator's view, in the context of criminal proceedings, the unconditional protection of the constitutional principle of transparency and therefore the fairness of the case should be strengthened by limiting the possibility of excluding disclosure on the basis of an important private interest only in cases where an important private interest of the victim, a witness or a non-Participant would be threatened. On the other hand, as regards the protection of the defendant's private interest, it is justified to give such consent on the basis of the opposite party's position and, if a prosecutor is involved, who is also an advocate of the rule of law, the prosecutor's consent should be required. The aim of this solution is to prevent abuse of this basis of exclusion of disclosure for reasons which are directly in the interest of the person who has been accused of the offence. The legislator assumes that there is no axiological justification for excluding the disclosure of the hearing due to any private interest of the accused, and that the indeterminateness of this condition constitutes an area of abuse, thus undermining confidence in the justice system and destructively affecting the image of justice in society. Furthermore, in the light of the nature of the changes in procedural rules in question, the legislator believes that the amendment of the Article should be considered justified. 181 k.p.k. with regard to the determination of the reasons which will not result in a hearing to be held, except in the case of disclosure. The legislator does not see the justification in the automatic exclusion of transparency of the hearing. High Izbo! Furthermore, the introduction of controls on the so-called "criminal process" will be a guarantee of strengthening the transparency of the criminal process. in the case of a horizontal order on the disclosure of the court's case, and in the light of the need to hear the case without undue delay, the proposed solution provides for a limitation of the period of time for which the complaint is to be heard up to 7 days from the date of referral to the court of the complaint together with the necessary files. Another proposed measure to strengthen the transparency of the criminal process is to ensure social control over the regularity of the proceedings by extending the principle of the admissibility of the recording and transmission by the media of the hearing, for which no provision has been made to conduct it except for transparency. Only in the event of a disturbance in the order of the hearing by the representatives of the media will the court be entitled to order that some of them leave the Chamber. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 357 § 1 k.p.k. In the current wording, the court's authorisation to consolidate the image and sound from the course of the hearing makes it conditional on the occurrence of inconsequential reasons, which make the decision on the matter in its indisputability often arbitrary. In the reality of the information society, the consolidation and transmission of the hearing by representatives of the mass media are part of the transparency of the hearing and also serve to inform the public about the process - thus performing the function of transparency of the hearing, i.e. checking the accuracy and regularity of the process - compliance with the procedural guarantees of its participants and shaping legal attitudes and legal awareness of society. Ex definitione is therefore in favour of a legitimate social interest. In view of the fact that the recording and transmission of the hearing are part of its transparency, it is also unjustified to maintain the admissibility of media participation depending on whether the participant's important interests do not object to it. The protection of an important private interest of a party to proceedings is guaranteed to the extent necessary by the institution to exclude the transparency of the hearing, which is Article. 360 k.p.k. In view of the above, it is not justified to maintain the admissibility of the limitation of the transparency of the hearing as regards media participation in the current form. Given that it cannot be ruled out that, given the considerable public interest in the process, the presence of a large number of representatives of the media in the Chamber may hinder its conduct, e.g. for technical, organisational or order reasons, the proposed legal solution provides for the possibility for the court to order certain of them to leave the courtroom and, in particularly justified cases, by all persons. The aim of the project is also to broaden the scope for action in the social factor process in the form of a social representative. This factor, in particular, enables social control of justice and the presentation to courts of positions of a social organisation, which undoubtedly creates better conditions for a fair judgment on the case. It is therefore necessary to remove unnecessary barriers to the participation of the social representative in the criminal process and to ensure that he is fully represented by the position of the social organisation. To this end, it was first of all necessary to eliminate the arbitraryness of the courts in allowing a representative of the social organisation to participate in the case. Such authorisation should always be mandatory if at least one of the parties agrees to do so. The participation of a social representative is therefore to be subject to the agreement of at least one of the parties, which is justified by the fact that he is to represent an interest relating to the subject matter of the dispute between those parties. The Party may withdraw its consent at any time. If the parties do not agree to the participation of the social representative, the court shall exclude that representative from the participation in the case. The implementation of the interests of justice in relation to the participation of a social representative is to be ensured that, regardless of the views of the parties, the court can, on account of the important interests of the judiciary, allow the representative of such an organisation. The refusal to allow a representative of a social organisation may take place only if the social or individual interest indicated in the notification to the social organisation is not covered by the statutory tasks of that organisation or is not related to the case being recognised. As only formal questions can be examined by the court in allowing the social representative to participate in the case, it may happen that due to many of those who submit their participation, the proper course of proceedings will not be ensured. The Court of First Instance will then be able to limit the number of representatives of social organisations present in the case. The prosecutor and the accused will then be able to identify no more than two representatives of the social organisations who will be involved in the case, and if there is more than one accused or one prosecutor, each of them will be able to identify one representative. The refusal of a representative shall be deemed to withdraw his consent to appear on the case, with consequences in the proposed Article. 90 § 3 k.p.k. In addition, the draft provides for a mandatory and not only where necessary, giving a voice to the social representative before the judgment is delivered. It's an art. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day In view of the fact that the social representative is not a party to the proceedings, it has become necessary to amend this chapter, Chapter 46, and other provisions which regulated the parties' voices. According to the draft, a social representative who is not a party will take the floor. It is therefore proposed that the term "final votes' be adopted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 2 of the draft is also amended as regards Article. 133 k.p.k., which aims to facilitate professional representatives of criminal proceedings. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure provide for a special method of service for procedural purposes - Chapter 15 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. - which constitutes a comprehensive regulation of its standardization, specific to the provisions of the Postal Law of 23 November 2012. This last law allows, among other things, to. issue with effect of service of the consignment to the postal office of the addressee authorised on the basis of a postal proxy - Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 2 of the Postal Law - which is a convenient and widely used way of receiving consignments, especially by professional operators. The rules of the procedural law do not provide for such a way of receiving postal items, in particular in order to ensure that those consignments are delivered directly to the hands of addressees who are non-professional participants in criminal proceedings. Therefore, this means of receiving consignments cannot currently be used. This restriction appears to be justified for non-professional participants, since a postal proxy can be given to any person - Article. Article 38 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Postal law - and the adoption of another solution in practice would result in a reduction in the actual efficiency of service and in many situations real doubts as to the status of informing the participant of its powers and procedural obligations. These problems do not arise in relation to professional participants in the proceedings: lawyers and legal advisers who are engaged in their professions in law firms. For this reason, in order to improve and facilitate the receipt of letters addressed to professional participants - i.e. defenders or attorneys who are lawyers or legal advisers - left in post offices, the drafter proposes to add an article. 133 § 2a k.p.k., allowing for this to be done by persons authorised on the basis of a postal proxy to receive mail. It should be noted that a similar regulation providing for the receipt of letters by persons authorised on the basis of a postal proxy has been introduced in Article. 139 § 11 c.p.c. Act amending of 16 September 2011 amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act and certain other laws. The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure are supplemented by amendments to the Article. 40 Law of 5 December 1999 on the professions of a doctor and dentist regulating medical confidentiality. In the current legal state, the scope of medical confidentiality is too broad, which often makes it impossible for people closest to a deceased patient to pursue claims or liability towards persons who may have contributed to the death of the patient. As a result, medical confidentiality can be used in individual cases to hide errors in treatment against the interests of the patient. Disclosure of objective causes of death may also be in the public interest. The introduction of the design will enable the immediate person to know all the circumstances related to the patient's health and may precede the decision to notify the suspect of the crime. As a result, in many cases, this may also avoid the need to initiate unnecessary proceedings, as disclosure alone will be sufficient for the loved ones to make good the harm if they contribute to the patient's death. The subject of this mystery after the patient's death should be those closest to the patient who has linked a node of special trust to the patient so that they are not unduly affected by the patient's personal well-being. The definition of a loved one is defined in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 2 of the Act of 6 November 2008 on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson on the Rights of the Patient, to which the Act on Doctors refers in Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6. It should also have the right to object to the exemption from secrecy where they consider disclosure of confidential information to constitute a disproportionate and unjustified breach of personal property. In such a case, it is sufficient to object to the confidentiality of medical confidentiality to one of the persons close to the circle of persons specified in the Act, even though other loved ones may consent to the disclosure of information. With an amendment to the article. 40 Act on Competitions of Doctor and Dentist correlates the amendment to Article. 14 of the Act of 6 November 2008 on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Patient. This provision is a functional complement to this horizontal act, equivalent to amendments to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. As a result of the entry into force of the law in criminal proceedings carried out at the stage of the hearing of the court, there may be a need to change subjectively and in the present case. This may apply to proceedings initiated both before 1 July 2015, after that date and after 15 April 2016, i.e. proceedings under different rules of procedure for evidence. As a result of the partial repeal of medical confidentiality or the intervention of a social organisation, new circumstances may arise, the need to seek new evidence, or even a reasonable suspicion that the evidence collected contains significant deficiencies which need to be completed in the preparatory proceedings. If these deficiencies are limited, they may be supplemented at the hearing, and if they are significantly broader, there are currently no provisions allowing them to be effectively supplemented without excessive extension of judicial proceedings. For this reason, the draft proposes a provision of an incidental nature allowing for the return to the preliminary proceedings of any case in which the public prosecutor has raised doubts as to its substantive correctness. Recovery of a case in the event of a request shall be compulsory, although limited by negative consequences in the form of a risk, that after the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph. 2, the application shall be deemed to have withdrawn the indictment. High Izbo, the purpose of this Act is to better comply with directives resulting, inter alia. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 45 constitutions. I therefore request that the above-mentioned proposal be adopted on behalf of the applicants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u451	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u452	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, I present my position on print project No 451. I think it is worth noting that this is an expected revision of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure primarily in relation to the participation of social organisations in criminal proceedings. These were the demands of a number of organisations which are legally engaged in activities for the preservation of freedom and civil rights. I would also like to remind you that during the work on the previous major amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure - including during the procedure, during the first second reading - on the part of the members of the committee, the opposition Members made such requests - also statements from representatives of the Ministry of Justice - that such an amendment would be desirable. And here's the project. I do not think I will repeat here the arguments put forward in the explanatory memorandum by the rapporteur. In fact, it explained in extenso the justification for the draft law, and I will therefore not duplicate it. I think it is particularly worth emphasising participation in legal proceedings, which will certainly affect the transparency of the process, the behaviour of the participants in the proceedings, the improvement of the level of culture in the courtroom. I think that this will also raise citizens' legal awareness and will, what is most important, shape trust, a positive image of justice, because the social representative is an important change that enables social control of justice, and present the views of social organisations to the courts. On this occasion, legislation on professional secrecy is being amended: doctors, dentists and representatives of other medical professions. There are also transitional provisions for proceedings initiated prior to the entry into force of the contested law. Therefore, on behalf of the club, I request that this draft law be referred to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u453	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This draft law deals with issues governing the efficiency and transparency of the criminal process, namely the service of letters to defence attorneys, the transparency of hearings and the participation of the social factor. First of all, I would like to point out that a change to allow the reception of letters addressed to defenders by the third parties they have indicated is a good solution. It shall be included in an equivalent civil procedure solution adopted under the Civic Platform and PSL. In-depth discussion certainly requires the other two issues, but inappropriate, in our view, the drafting of the bill makes it much more difficult. The designers, when proposing specific changes to the rules, did not point out in the content of the justification for any diagnosis of the present state, and they did not do so in a short time. No information was provided to describe the involvement of social organisations in criminal proceedings and possible problems related thereto. So we don't know if they exist at all. We also do not have any information as to whether the current laws affect the transparency of judicial proceedings and whether they can somehow block the implementation of this constitutional principle of justice. So we do not have any analyses, opinions or even demands of specific environments involved in making changes in these areas. So the question arises: Are they necessary and there is no breaking down of the doors already open at this point? With regard to the amendment of Article. 90 The Code of Criminal Procedure aimed at ensuring that social organisations participate in criminal proceedings, first of all two questions must be answered. In the current legal state, do these organisations have difficult access to this and are they being blocked in this regard? Will the proposed rules not prolong proceedings? In accordance with the rules in force, the social organisation may submit to the proceedings until the commencement of the judicial duct and, in accordance with the proposed amendment, it may do so at any stage of the proceedings, also before the end of the proceedings. In view of the fact that the social organisation is an active participant in proceedings which may submit letters or statements, it must be stated that the proposed change could significantly affect the extension of criminal proceedings. It is not for this purpose that a social organization is allowed to act in order not to take into account its opinion and to ignore written submissions. Importantly, according to the proposed wording § 3 of this Article will have to allow a representative of the social organisation if at least one of the parties agrees to its presence in the case. It is not difficult to predict that many times the defendants will wish to prolong the proceedings using this possibility. In this case, the court will be powerless, because pursuant to § 5 the right to refuse admission of a social organisation will be severely restricted. So, in order to strengthen the procedural role of social organisations, a child with a bath can unfortunately be fired. As regards the proposed amendments to the transparency of criminal proceedings, I would like to make it clear that the current legislation ensures the full implementation of the constitutional right to information resulting from the Article. 61 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and fully comply with the standards expressed in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. On the other hand, the proposed amendment goes beyond these standards, and this goes beyond dangerously. It is established as a principle of the presence of media in the courtroom, without the prior consent of the court. Only in very specific cases will the court be able to order a media representative to leave the courtroom. However, a much greater concern is raised by the proposed change as regards the exclusion of the transparency of the procedure itself. In the event that there is even a very real risk that disclosure of the trial violates the important interests of the accused, that is, a person who is not yet convicted, the exclusion of disclosure will nevertheless only be possible with the consent of the prosecutor if he participates in the proceedings. Thus, the legal inequality of the parties to the trial is introduced and the powers of the judges, who are responsible for the criminal process, are significantly reduced. It is worth recalling here that since 4 March 2016, the entire prosecution is subject to only one politician, Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. It is therefore reasonable to fear that prosecutors' decisions in this area may often be of a non-essential nature. The proposed changes to the exclusion of transparency and access to the media are unfortunately the easiest way to create conditions for public participation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the lynch of the persons freely designated by Minister Zioba or the governing party. Unfortunately, the final acquittal of this person by the court after months or years of trial may never restore the lost good name again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u455	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u456	I'm almost done, Marshal. However, given that the involvement of social organisations in the criminal process and its transparency are very important topics, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform asks that the project be directed to work in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u458	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I did not expect to hear in 2016 in this Chamber that the transparency of the process and the participation of social organisations are contrary to what interests. Well, Mr Myrch, do you know what time art is from? 90 k.p.k.? From the old Stalinist times, sir, when they were being chased, you know, laborers into trials. [[Civil code, too, so what?]] You're just too young, you don't remember, and you're telling stupid things in this room. [[The billing law is from the '20s, and that doesn't prove anything.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u459	But don't disturb me. Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the CODE state, let me tell you this... [[Don't insult the MPs. I'm calling you into order.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u461	I'm calling you into order. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u462	Let me tell you this: you think you live in a state of law, and we claim that we live in a state of lawlessness, and that is what we differ from. The provision on the involvement of social associations and organisations has long been working very well in civil processes. In criminal proceedings it does not work properly, and it is a pity that the Ministry of Justice and the applicants did not go in that direction to unify these provisions. [[But we don't reject it.]] This is the first major case. It is not enough, I will say, that it is wrong to say that in a situation where you give such great power to the Attorney General and the Minister, we do not go any further, that is, we do not introduce recording from the preliminary procedure - we asked for it - we do not introduce a complaint for psychiatric examination, we do not change the way we appoint judges, because there are also very big reservations about this. All these proposals by Kukiz15 - and I personally, on behalf of the associations - and in subcommittees, and in the committee of justice, and here we reported. And it's like the main thing, the trial needs to be socialized. There's no reason for the judges to sit in an empty courtroom. So much for art. 90 k.p.k. When it comes to receiving court letters and limiting the exclusion of disclosure, I think the rules are going in the right direction, and I won't even comment on it. On the other hand, our doubts are raised by the proposed wording of the article. 179 and Article 179 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 180 k.p.k. in the context of the provisions on medical confidentiality in relation to Article. 40. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that there are situations where, due to medical confidentiality, access to the immediate family is difficult and justified. But it is too sensitive, because there are situations, the opposite, when it is very sensitive information, especially concerning various psychiatric, gynaecological, yet others whose disclosure to loved ones within the meaning of a loved one... Because it's not like that, for example. The question is whether the mother-in-law of the first marriage can obtain such information. So here, however, we are inclined to see changes in this direction in committee, at least in part, because we need to be able to distinguish these two things, and if we do not, we will be inclined to maintain the rule that this is revealed with the consent of the court. That's it, thank you. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, we will request that the case be referred for further investigation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u463	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in correction mode, because my name came up.]] Mr, but these are club speeches, they weren't addressed to you. [[Half a minute, Marshal, in correction mode.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u464	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I don't think you listened very carefully to my speech. First of all, I did not request that this project be rejected at first reading. Secondly, I have not questioned in any way the involvement of social organisations in criminal proceedings. I merely expressed my concern that this might have an impact on the lengthening of criminal proceedings, but in no way have I questioned the validity of the participation of those organisations which we consider fully legitimate, so I do not know why this attack, and I do not know why it was wrong to quote my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u465	Thank you very much. [[Still in corrigendum mode.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, the club... Excuse me, this is the next Member. Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position with regard to the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and some other laws. It should be recalled that in March of this year, the High House was proceding a major revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This project was a government submission introducing more than 130 changes. Even then, we pointed to the poor preparation of the amendment. During the committee's work, the government made several dozen amendments, indicating an excessive hurry and lack of a comprehensive analysis of the proposed amendment. [[Applause]] Not even a month has passed since the adoption of the amendments and the High Chamber is again absorbed by the next amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. [[Applause]] This time the Law and Justice return to the negative practice of the parliamentary project, without public consultation, in such an important sphere as the involvement of a social representative in the criminal process or, as the applicant wants, a revision of the rules ensuring the transparency of the criminal process. What is causing this haste? After all, it was supposed to be so beautiful, you were supposed to listen and hear Poles, and the Prime Minister spoke about it in her exposé. Did you cheat Poles in this too? First of all, the provisions facilitating the conduct of proceedings by professional agents should be assessed in a positive manner by amending the rules on receipt of correspondence or by introducing a review of the complaint against the court's orders to exclude the disclosure of the case. On the other hand, with regard to the compulsory participation of social organisations, the amendment provides for the possibility to report to the proceedings at any stage of judicial proceedings and not, as yet, before the start of proceedings. I share Mr Myrcha's doubts that this may lead to an excessive extension of criminal proceedings in this area. [[Applause]] The proposed amendments to grant in principle unconditional agreement to representatives of the mass media for the transmission of the hearing pursuant to Article. 357 also raises reasonable doubts, since three conditions have so far been necessary: the conditions of important social interest, the conditions of ensuring the proper conduct of the proceedings and the conditions of the relevant interest of the party to the proceedings. There is no doubt that in accordance with the Article. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution, the right to information should be a rule in criminal proceedings, but this is not an absolute value and should be subject to restrictions arising inter alia. the need to ensure the proper conduct of the proceedings, as well as the important private interest of the party to the proceedings, including the accused. It should be pointed out that the important private interest of the participants, including the accused, must be in balance with the public interest. It is highly inappropriate to depend on the protection of the defendant's important interests solely on the will of the prosecutor. Such conduct is contrary to the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence, in which the accused in society cannot be condemned. Dear Members of the Law and Justice, applicants for these changes, the fundamental question arises: Why, in such a sudden, urgent manner, do you want to change the Code of Criminal Procedure again? But last night's report show, audit, she's giving, maybe, answers to that. Is it true that the proposed changes are to prepare the ground for political demonstration processes? [[Applause]] Because it's so easy to imagine that a courteous, politically-dependent prosecutor is going to make an indictment against an uncomfortable person, an entrepreneur, this process is going to be broadcast in the media, because the prosecutor didn't agree to disable the public, and during this trial, not even a prosecutor, and the social representative is going to barbecue the defendant. These rules are a simple way to lynching a court. [[Applause]] So what if later an independent court can exonerate the defendant? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this really the kind of Poland you want, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u467	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u468	Is this the kind of Poland you want? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u469	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, it is my pleasure to present our position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and some other laws contained in print No.451. Closer analysis of the regulations of K.P.K. concerning social organisations in confrontation with judicial practice reveals doubts. The basic question that arises in this respect is, for example, whether the rules currently in force oblige the social representative to maintain objectivity, which should be characterised by the action of the public-interest spokesman. With regard to the social representative, the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of There is no rule of law that would prevent a social organisation from participating in a process that could have its own interest in a specific case. There is also no provision that does not allow a person in a close family or personal relationship to participate in the process as a social representative with any party to the process or who may benefit personally from the outcome of the proceedings. Applicants shall not equip social organisations with any new powers that could allow them to achieve more fully in the process the objectives for which they have been set up. The proposed change, which excludes a judge from examining the validity of the organisation's accession to the process, may lead to an extension of the procedure - as the previous speakers have already pointed out - and also create new opportunities for deliberate obstruction of the process. The Supreme Court has stressed several times that the admission of a social representative to judicial proceedings should be treated as a rule in judicial practice, but not as an exception. Therefore, one of the two roads should be chosen in this respect. One is to equip the social organisation with real powers similar to the powers of the supplicator to help implement the constitutional principle of participation of the social factor in the process in a more fuller way, while the other is to adapt the provisions to the existing facts, namely simply to remove the provisions in question from the c.p.k. The proposed change does not bring any positive aspects in this regard. Concerning the amendment of the Article. 357 and Art. 360 c.p.k., there is no doubt that the transparency of the criminal trial can positively affect the judicial authorities by increasing the level of their work. Ensuring the transparency of the main hearing shall also promote the achievement of the objectives of criminal proceedings as set out in Article. 2 § 1 point 2 of the Commercial Code, namely through an appropriate criminal response and the disclosure of circumstances conducive to the disclosure of the offence, the appropriate impact on the strengthening of respect for the law and principles of social co-life and the prevention of other offences. However, the question arises as to whether the applicants' intention is to increase the transparency of the process, whether it is perhaps another stage of interference with the autonomy of the judiciary. According to the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the principle of transparency of judicial proceedings, as expressed in the article, has been fully highlighted. 45 Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which also corresponds to internationally accepted standards. The main hearing, which is the most important stage of criminal proceedings, has been kept public, and the circumstances leading to its exclusion are indicated at constitutional level - Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 - or as indicated in the Code of Criminal Procedure. We are talking about morality, state security, public order, the protection of private life or other important private interests. In the doctrine, it is considered that all the conditions, apart from the last of these, do not give rise to problems of interpretation and, in the case of another important private interest, the court has been left to decide whether it is necessary to exclude the transparency of the hearing in the present case. And this decision-making slack the applicants want to deprive the judges of. Therefore, we do not see the need to change the legal situation in this regard. As regards the amendments to the Article. 357 k.p.k., in the view of the applicants, provision § 1 in the wording so far makes the granting by the court of permission to record images and sound from the course of the hearing conditional on the occurrence of inconsequential reasons which make the decision on this subject - in its indisputability - often arbitrary. These conditions are not as vague as the applicant claims, e.g. Whereas the concept of a legitimate social interest in accordance with case law must be brought into line with the situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] when the public is interested in the matter. In conclusion, the analysis of this project raises many doubts, but the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party requests that the project be directed to further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u471	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Sanocki, an independent Member, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: I am a representative of a social organization and have been helping people affected by the justice system for several years. As the publisher of the independent press, I have adventures with the justice system and listening to all this, I think of the reflection that nothing convinces me to support the PiS like the statements of the opposition Members. Just a little while longer, and I'm going to be a zealous [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a very big round of applause for the ministry to have prepared this amendment. We have proposed such an amendment and I, and Mr Jachnik, also a representative of the associations. [[You're gonna stand trial, you're gonna be surprised.]] The revision resulting from practice and from our experience with the justice system and moving in the right direction, especially as regards the full admission of associations. There is not such a great crowd of these associations, it is really hard social work, but in many cases it really improves the functioning of the justice system, which today in Poland works badly and is - in my opinion and in everyone's opinion - simply full of pathology. This pathology is due to a violation of the constitutional principle of national sovereignty. The justice system operates outside all external control and just increasing the social factor in control, supervision, transparency will certainly improve the functioning of the Polish courts and prosecutors' offices. I just wanted to point out that, of course, these aren't all the changes that we would have called for. I hope all this is still ahead of us. For example, recording should be unconditional. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 147 k.p.k. it is optional, related to whether there are technical possibilities. Today, technical possibilities with this technological progress are practically everywhere, so it should not be optional, but simply mandatory. Besides, it can be regulated in practice. On the other hand, all changes are going in the right direction. There is still a need to think about increasing... In our view, in the opinion of the associations, there is an urgent need for legislative changes in the law on the system of courts, an increase in the social factor, in general the introduction of external controls, because today, ladies and gentlemen, judges practically choose themselves, they control themselves. A closed clan has been created that is not subject to any control. Unfortunately, the judges' decisions are often similar to the famous dialogue from the film "Bear," in which the locker room says, "We will not give you your coat back, and what will you do?" And these are serious matters, because judicial authority is one of the fundamental pillars of the normal functioning of a democratic society. Therefore, I ask you to support these changes. I appeal to everyone. We'll support them ourselves. I thank the Ministry for taking our demands into account. These were the demands we put forward during the work on the previous amendment. This is a very good sign that the Ministry is finally responding to the votes of non-members. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u473	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm based on... [[Questions.]] Oh, actually, there are more questions. I'm sorry. Eight Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of enlisted Members. I'm setting a question time for one and a half minutes. She is the first to ask the question of Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform Club. She's not in the O.R. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, also from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u474	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The primary principle of the criminal trial is the presumption of innocence. It's a rule that every person is considered innocent until its guilt is found to be a final judgment of the court. My question is: How, in the light of the proposed changes, do not allow abuse and breach of the principle of presumption of innocence in a situation where the accused remains without effective protection in a conflict, e.g. with media and public opinion, which, as we know very well, gives sentences faster than the Polish courts? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u475	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik of the Law and Justice Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, I would like to raise two points. I would like to ask about the situation regarding media access to the hearing, especially in terms of whether or not there is a risk that, after the amendment, the court will be able to remove from the sitting the unfavorable journalists, even on the pretext of high attendance or other difficulties in the proper conduct of the organisation of the proceedings. This question is for the applicant. In principle, I could ask a similar question about the presence of social organisations. I have a question for the Minister, on the other hand. He'd like to ask you more precisely about the article. 90 § 6, exactly the last sentence. I'm talking about the so-called. the interests of the justice system. I'd appreciate it if you'd define that concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u477	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The processed project contains many interesting, important proposals. I was interested in the way I received the correspondence. I had personal bad experiences with the fact that correspondence was received by the wrong person who should. The current situation is dysfunctional because it requires personal receipt of unanswered correspondence by a lawyer or counsel. Consequently, either these entities actually receive correspondence from the postal operator or such correspondence is issued contrary to the applicable law to unauthorised persons. I wanted to ask: Will the cases of correspondence being issued to unauthorised persons be terminated when this law enters into force? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u479	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Pampuch from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Minister! I would like to know if you even know what the number was - I do not know whether this is a question for your applicant or a question for your minister, but I think it is more that the Minister has or should have had this knowledge - a refusal from the courts on the possibility for the media to transmit hearings in relation to the entire number of hearings that took place. Was there such an important problem that the courts should in principle be incapacitated and a general rule introduced this time concerning the transmission of all proceedings, also regardless of the accused's important interests? Second question. With regard to the defendant's important interests, it is only with the consent of the prosecutor that it is possible to exclude disclosure. How many cases were there that the defendant abused an important private interest to exclude the transparency of the proceedings? Was that a problem of any kind? Do you have the data? Unfortunately, the justification for the project does not contain any data demonstrating that any changes are needed in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u481	The question is now asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u482	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, with a brief question that I would like to address to the applicant, but also through you to the management of the Law and Justice Club. Why are you filling us up without losing the purpose of all the projects to date, such a narrow revision of the criminal procedure? It seems to me that this would serve both the quality of the criminal procedure and the better atmosphere of discussion in this Chamber and in committees, but if we were to try to find a few areas that you recognise, you have a title to it, no one is questioning it, with me at the head, to propose changes in this area. On the other hand, why are these changes not more comprehensive? I may repeat myself, because I asked a similar question during one of the amendments, but it would really be much better to create a good, efficient criminal procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u483	Thank you. The question is asked by Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice. [[Just a little bit about the formal issue.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If today there is no way to answer these questions that I have asked, please answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u485	Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When discussing proposed changes, sometimes it is good to try to look at the effects of these changes not only on paper, but especially in life. That's how I'm gonna do it. High Seym! I was once a participant in a trial that, although noted as the one that took place, did not actually take place. Turns out all the findings with the D.A. were made on the phone. However, the judge decided to come down and conduct the proceedings this time without the prosecutor's presence. In conversations with ordinary citizens, but also with lawyers, it appears that these are frequent cases in which the ordinary citizen is wronged in my view, without a chance to present his position. Therefore, I have a question for the representatives of the applicants. Does the possibility offered by representatives of the media to record and transmit a hearing in this project, with the transparency of its conduct, have an opportunity to put an end to such cases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u487	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u488	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project is, in fact, a parliamentary initiative, and I wanted to put my question to the Minister. Well, whether it's a change of art. 90 you do not consider that it is possible to define some substantive criteria for persons who are to take part in these processes on behalf of the organisation, because there are different social organisations, as you know, different levels of substance of those persons who carry out their activities within these organisations. They often have very good intentions, but these intentions are often followed by poor substantive preparation. Shouldn't it be possible here, as in the case of experts, to clarify even the minimum requirements, so that these processes also have the right seriousness, and that there really is no longer a situation in which they extend indefinitely? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u489	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please address the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions. First of all, the first question. Mr Sanocki's proposal is a parliamentary project, not a ministerial project, not a government project, while the government here expresses a positive attitude towards this project. The project responds to multi-annual requests from social organisations in this area. A few years ago, the Citizen Office of Intervention claimed a similar project. Very often it can be observed in practice that these organisations are being marginalized. And yet the justice system serves the citizens, serves the Poles. He doesn't serve judges, he doesn't serve prosecutors, he doesn't serve prosecutors, he doesn't serve judicial secretaries or other actors in the judicial system, but he does serve all citizens. So that the project, so-called. the disclosure package, because it can be called informally, absolutely meets the requirements referred to in the Constitution in Article. 45, pointing out that the process should be an open process, not a hooded one, not a toilet one, not a phone call, like it just happened here, but a public one. This is also reported by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Civil Rights and Freedoms. Hence this project. Finally, I would like to point out the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 16 January 2006, SK 30/05, where the tribunal pointed out that the role of social organisations in the proceedings is to express an opinion on the issues in question in relation to which criminal proceedings are pending. This also aims at promoting constitutional values, shaping civil society attitudes and finally social control of power. We're not afraid of this social power control. So that there is a more comprehensive assessment of the issue, increased public acceptance of the decisions taken and shaping positive attitudes. This is all that the tribunal has sought, what the tribunal points out in this judgment. That's what's happening in this project. Full agreement, acceptance of this project, unlike what happened a few years ago. As I say, five years ago, social organizations appeared, what can be found on the Internet, with a similar conclusion. At that time, the Association of Legal Assistance (STA) turned to the government. That was six years ago. The Ministry of Justice then refused such an initiative, while also in science it was pointed out that the participation of social organizations... Today, the question is, how does it grow in percentage terms? There is no list of such cases, it is not covered by judicial reporting, which was the percentage of cases as regards the participation of the social factor, and I will refer to the position of Professor Kruszyński, who indicates that it is an institution practically dead. Mr Jachnik and Mr Sanocki also pointed out this today. So that here this project definitely meets the needs of society. About the questions. The question of the Member concerning the wording of the article. 90 § 6, i.e. the concept of the interests of the judiciary. This is about examining the case, examining the case carefully, reaching and achieving the objective, reaching the objectives set out in Article. 2 Code of Criminal Procedure, i.e. primarily for the implementation of the principle of material truth. It's not like it came out of this stand today, that the principle of presumption of innocence is a fundamental and fundamental principle in the proceedings. Yes, it's basic, but not chief. Nowhere in any textbook did I find that she was the chief, the most important of all, but I found that this principle is the principle of material truth. It's a shame you're not here, but we could discuss it. In answer to the question, it is a specific safety valve, actually, statement in § 6 in fine: if it is in the interest of the judiciary. Regardless of the positions of the parties, the court may allow representatives of social organisations, if it sees, as the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out in the judgment I just quoted, dated 16 January 2006. - that this is aimed at a more comprehensive assessment of a given subject, with the aim of increasing public acceptance of a given decision, that issues are so important that they require such participation. This is the interest of the judiciary read by the judgment of the SK 30/05 tribunal. On the other hand, there are two questions for Mr Suchon. First of all, I've already answered partially, we don't have that type of data. We'll try to find them and promise to answer in writing. The next question was the number of refusals from the courts to the media. Another very important issue. Going beyond this question, also full acceptance and appreciation for the applicants, for the Member. Namely decisive media control. The media has nothing to be afraid of. The media has a very important role to play in civil society: control of power, also information on issues under investigation. I repeat, these are not hood courts, toilet courts. Society has the right to know what's at stake, what's at stake. Therefore, very appropriate solutions in this regard, while we do not have this type of data. We'll look. Maybe there was some more scientific research, so to speak, than it was developed by our resort. We don't have them. The same is true of the next question about the number of abuse of an important private interest. There is no such data, but axiologically it is a very justified project, because it breaks with arbitrariness, breaks with discretion, with arrogant attitude, with arrogance of power, introduces rigid conditions and principles on the basis of which citizens can be excluded from a given procedure or finally exclude representatives of the media. So full acceptance and congratulations on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u491	Thank you very much. Does the applicant's representative wish to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In answer to the questions raised by the honourable Member, the aim of the project is to increase the transparency of criminal proceedings, with the aim of increasing the role of social control over the exercise of justice. Such a move should be considered as appropriate, in particular with regard to the Article. 45 Constitution, which introduces the principles of transparency of the hearing. In the current system of criminal proceedings, the principle of allowing a social organisation to participate actively in proceedings, as well as the rules on the abolition of the transparency of proceedings, are, in fact, based on the autonomous decision-making looseness of the formation of the court. High Izbo! Criminal proceedings, including in particular criminal proceedings, are a dynamic process which cannot be foreseen for the individual elements and effects of the criminal proceedings. Therefore, there is no legal possibility to provide in the provisions of the law. such solutions as would fully regulate all potential events and elements of the hearing. It is therefore appropriate to provide for such conditions as are binding on the court and, on the other hand, allow the formation of the ruling body to maintain those regulations, powers which are designed to ensure the regularity of the process. In addition, the regulations introduced are a significant step forward with regard to the current situation, where, in fact, there is no practical guidance on the matters covered by the amendment. Currently, these cases are essentially within the jurisdiction of the court, but there are no general clauses on the basis of which the formation of the court is to take a specific decision on formal proceedings. This amendment fills this gap. In answer to another question concerning the rules for allowing media representatives to report on the hearing, in my opinion this is the right step, which gives the formation of the judge a real legal basis for ensuring the organizational order in the courtroom. A possible allegation that the court may ask the unfavorable journalists should be considered wrong, as such a situation may also occur at present. The Court of First Instance has guidelines when and how it may restrict access by media representatives where large attendance would prevent or impede the proper organisation of the process. In addition, it is worth pointing out that the amendment introduces an instrument to control the provisions of the formation of the court. A party who is dissatisfied with the decision, even if it concerns the exclusion of disclosure, shall be entitled to appeal to another composition of that court, therefore it is an additional guarantee which serves to fulfil the disposal of the Article. 45 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. With regard to the contested law, as regards the rules for receipt of correspondence by a postal agent - and here I also answer the question of a lawyer or counsel, it is necessary to amend here, because the current situation is dysfunctional, ordering the personal receipt of unanswered correspondence by a lawyer or counsellor. Consequently, either these entities actually receive personal correspondence from the postal operator or such correspondence is issued to unauthorised persons. Often they are, of course, employees of the firm, but the law is still being violated here. With regard to the scope of the changes relating to the admission of loved ones to medical secrecy of the deceased, they allow for an increase in the possibility of law enforcement by the nearest person or knowledge of the lack of grounds for both civil and criminal proceedings. According to the current rules, in order for the person closest to you to obtain information that is a medical secret, in practice he must initiate criminal proceedings or obtain access to evidence - and this is not always an effective way, although it involves the authorities of the State to often pointless and unobtrusive activity. The amended rules allow the immediate ones, taking into account their alleged consent, not to object to at least one of the people closest to them, to know the facts and consequently the legal situation of the case. The acquisition of such knowledge will often result in pointless and pointless criminal proceedings and, subsequently, civil proceedings not being initiated. To sum up, in my opinion, the proposed changes are much more precise than they are currently fulfilling the directives of the Article. 45 constitutions. In view of the above, I ask the High House to refer the contested bill to the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u493	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are addressed by the parliamentary draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act and certain other laws contained in print No.451, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act (Print No 459). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No 459, aims to fulfil the obligations imposed by Regulation No 1071/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down common rules concerning the conditions for the pursuit of the occupation of road transport operator and repealing Council Directive 96/26/EC as regards the establishment and operation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs. The deadline for the adaptation of national law expired on 31 December 2012. Most Member States of the European Union already have national registers and exchange information within the European Union. Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Regulation No 1071/2009 provides that each Member State shall keep the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs who have obtained authorisation from the competent authority designated by that State to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. The processing of data contained in the register shall be subject to scrutiny by a public authority designated for that purpose. On the basis of the proposed rules, the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will consist of the following records: entrepreneurs who are authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, serious infringements as referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) b of Regulation 1071/2009, and of persons who have been declared unable to manage the transport operations of the trader until such time as the good repute is restored in accordance with Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 3 of the Regulation referred to above. The register shall be kept in the electronic system by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. Data will be transferred to the register by the authorised authorities: the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, the Elders and the Mayors of Cities on the rights of powiats, the Provincial Road Transport Inspectors, the Provincial Police Commandants, Customs Directors, the Chief Labour Inspector, the Road Managers and the Head of the Border Guard. In accordance with the proposed rules, data collected in the register of undertakings authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator shall be publicly and publicly available, in addition to data relating to the date and place of birth and address of residence of the transport manager and the natural person authorised to carry out the tasks of transport manager on behalf of the micro-entrepreneur. On the other hand, data collected in the records of serious infringements and records of persons who have been found unable to manage transport operations shall be made available only to authorised authorities and the Internal Security Agency. The project provides that the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs will be established on 1 April 2017. This deadline for the creation of a national register is due to the adoption of a three-month deadline for carrying out a public contract on the selection of the operator of the electronic system and a six-month deadline for the creation and implementation of the system. In addition to the changes resulting from the implementation of the European Parliament Regulation, the proposal provides for other changes. These changes are e.g. Amendment of Article 7a providing for the possibility to submit information from the National Criminal Register on non-punishment for an offence involving an infringement of national law as referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and the regulations of the European Union, I apologise, No 1071/2002, mentioned in Article. 7d paragraph. 2 offences corresponding to infringements of national law as defined in that Community Regulation, amendment of Article. 7a laying down rehabilitation measures, amendment of Article. 32 allowing the main road transport inspector to suspend the issue of driver certificates, adding Article. 15a-15d providing for a procedure for traders who have committed infringements. The draft shall also include an amendment to the Article. 11 designating the main road transport inspector as the authority empowered to issue extracts and authorisations for the occupation of road transport operator, a change of a Union nature which is beneficial to the environment of road transport operators. It is further specified in the Article. 39 names of professional examination confirming professional qualifications. Amendment to Article 47a determines the own tasks of local government units. The article has been clarified. 87. 1 concerning the control of printouts from tachographs and manual records on record sheets and printouts. These documents are included in the annexes to the existing Act as being subject to scrutiny. All provisions of the draft law, in addition to those relating to the creation of the register, will enter into force 14 days after its publication. The legislative work in the Ministry has already been in progress since 2010, in the previous term of government - until December 2004. The work on the project continued until December, followed by a two-fold review by the Council of Ministers, but this examination of the project was postponed in July and September 2015. At the moment the work has been accelerated so that the law can enter as soon as possible, including. because of the problems our entrepreneurs may have on the French market related to the Loi Macron Act. Therefore, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction recommends that work on the Law in the Sejm and the Senate be completed as soon as possible so that the Act can enter into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u495	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on the agenda item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Polaczek will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my club's position regarding the proposed amendment to the Road Transport Act. I will start with a quick statement, which has to be repeated several times at this point, that the deadline for adapting national law in this respect, I remind you, expired on 31 December 2012. It's 2016. The assumptions for the project, as Minister Smolinski has already mentioned, were prepared in 2010, so that we have the 6th year of the process on this document. I do not intend to focus on reporting these solutions, these assumptions were presented in detail by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction in the person of Minister Smolinski, while I will focus on some elements resulting from the practical consequences of delays in the implementation of this project. Firstly, the electronic register of road transport companies itself, which according to this government amendment can be implemented at the earliest in April 2017, already this year causes powerful problems of nature, one can say, economic, social in Poland. These are mainly due to this element, which Minister Smolinski only mentioned, i.e. the very strict French regulation, which comes from 1 July this year, the Loi Macron Decree, which confirms the application in France of the minimum wage rules for international road transport and provides for a number of additional obligations, which since 1 July this year. should be carried out by a Polish entrepreneur who carries out such international services. One of these key responsibilities entering France from 1 July this year. is the driver's equipment and the transfer of a certificate of secondment to a representative in France, which, in addition to the entry in the national electronic register of the carrier's data, the employee and the representative shall also include the particulars of the entry in the National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs. This certificate should be issued to the driver before the first operation is carried out in the territory of France, i.e. Before 1 July 2016, the lack or incompleteness of data in this certificate will result in penalties imposed on the Polish international transport carrier in respect of this part of the European market, France. Here we should refer to the statistics and just remind you that this Polish-French exchange in the context of the failure to implement these provisions and the entry into force of very strict French rules, this bilateral trade carried out in road transport is EUR 16 billion per year. As the transport industry experts emphasize here, France is the second largest export market in Poland. In this respect, 10% goods exported from our country go to the French market, the other way is 8%. This may result - I am addressing the Minister - also the fact that, as a result of these delays, the failure to implement this important European regulation will be an opportunity - this situation is very, it can be said, a potential - resulting directly from the failure of the Polish carrier to obtain such a certificate, relating to claims against the Treasury which can be sought. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't mind, sir, it's literally 20 more seconds. When reading the timetable for this regulation, which has been in progress since 2010, there is one conclusion, which boils down to the fact that in this respect our predecessors, at least since 2012, because these works have been intensive since 2010, in quotes intensively...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u497	Mr President, it's been 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u498	It will be simply extremely distressing and from 1 July this year. it will have a very important economic impact. This is an open question to the Minister about how the government will react in these bilateral Polish-French relations to lead to a situation where...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u499	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u500	...the consequences will not be borne by the Polish carrier. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u501	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. Please, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u502	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Road Transport Act is a constitution of the road transport industry. This is an important piece of legislation which sets out the rules for carrying out business activities involving the carriage of persons and goods. The law dates back to 2001, but has been amended several times. This amendment, which the government has tabled today, is of special importance because the proposals contained in the proposal concern the implementation of European standards, which have been expressed in five legislative acts. The first is Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down common rules concerning the conditions for the occupation of road transport operator and repealing Council Directive 96/26/EC. The next Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council also dates from 21 October 2009 and concerns common rules for access to the international road transport market. The next one also comes from that day, concerns common rules for access to the international market for coach and bus services and amends Regulation No 561/2006. The next two documents are documents already from the Commission: the Commission Decision of 17 December 2009 on minimum data requirements to be entered in the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs and the Commission Regulation of 16 December 2010 laying down common rules for the interconnection of national electronic registers of road transport undertakings. Why is this presentation important? Because it unifies in the countries of the European Community the rules on registers to eliminate from the market those entrepreneurs, those drivers, those carrying out transport activities who should not be involved in the carriage of persons or goods. These registers will be cross-border, these registers will allow for data exchange between countries. The important thing is that we proceed quickly with this bill, which is why on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club I request that the bill be submitted to the Infrastructure Committee for further work. According to the voice of my previous speaker, I can say that the government had a ready man. This draft law as ready could have been filed almost at the beginning of the term of office. Therefore, some of the considerations of Minister Jerzy Polkak are not justified. We have been able to process this law since the beginning of December. Once again, I declare on behalf of my club that we will proceed with this bill in the Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u503	Thank you very much. Mr Sylwester Khrushch from the Kukiz club15 will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After the Council of Ministers prepared this amendment, we received information that the project concerns the creation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs. We are all aware that it was the European Commission that demanded Poland to implement this system. We were obliged to introduce these regulations by 1 January this year. And since the previous government had not prepared an amendment, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government had to act in a hurry. On the other hand, this haste has caused many flaws that have been found in today's bill. The bill contains records of the good reputation of the transport company. Maintaining a good reputation by an entrepreneur or transport manager is essential for the pursuit of road transport activities and affects the maintenance of the licence for such transport. Currently, proceedings on the loss of good repute are being initiated when the transport manager is convicted of crimes involving, for example, working time of drivers, driving licences, vehicle overloads, technical and other tests, as well as e.g. for offences arising from the regulation of commercial, insolvency, road traffic law, as well as those relating to wages and conditions of employment, professional responsibility or trafficking in human beings or drugs. However, it has so far been made clear that a good reputation may be lost in the event of intentional crime. However, this project deletes the statement that it is only intentional crime, and this is an error by the applicant. Instead of helping Polish transport companies, the Polish state adds further difficulties, thus becoming part of the economic struggle and in practice being on the side of foreign companies. EU legislation does not impose an obligation on us to limit these crimes only to unintentional ones. It is a provision voluntarily introduced by our government, only a question of what it is to serve. We have many examples in Western Europe, where the protectionist attitude of the governments of the countries of the old European Union leads to the closure of the markets there for entities from abroad, and especially for Polish tirists. And let's have, ladies and gentlemen, the awareness that Polish transport is developing very well. Many tens of thousands of people today work in transport abroad. These are strong companies that have invested a lot of money in rolling stock, we have many good entrepreneurs with very good contracts. But the Germans have introduced a minimum wage regulation, the French have recently published a regulation into the so-called. the Macron law, it creates administrative barriers for foreign entrepreneurs, and for small companies it means closing the market, as Minister Polaczek has already mentioned. In the context of this brutal fight for the Polish market, the Polish government should do everything to make it easier for our companies to remain on the European market. On the other hand, this amendment does not meet this criterion. We, of course, will also be presenting our ideas in the Committee on Infrastructure in order to protect our transporters. They are under a lot of pressure today, they know that the countries of the old European Union want to eliminate our transport. Those problems that our transporters have today, e.g. in Calais or in other ports of France, where the Polish state does not help them and refugees enter the trucks. And they, as companies, remain alone with it. Massive penalties are imposed on entrepreneurs and it is difficult for our companies to operate in Europe, to win new contracts. We, as Poles, should help our transporters as Polish government. Unfortunately, we still have a lot of work ahead of us at the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u506	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club on the draft law amending the Road Transport Act, print No. 459. The proposed proposal is largely due to the need to transpose the provisions of European Union legislation into the law of the Republic of Poland. My previous speakers have already mentioned these acts quite precisely, so I will not discuss them in detail, but I would like to point out that it is really urgent because of the need to implement these provisions - after a while - so that we will certainly take an active part in the work of the committee in order to implement these provisions into Polish law as soon as possible. In discussing our position, I would like to mention a few aspects, as this project, as implementing the necessary solutions, should, as I have already mentioned, be placed under the deliberations of the committee responsible, where we will look at it in detail. In line with the requirements set out in the relevant acts, the European States are required to implement certain mechanisms in the field of road transport, which, according to the European institutions, are ordering this area of the economy. They indicate in particular that Member States keep the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs who have obtained authorisation from a State designated by the competent authority to pursue the occupation of road transport operator. In accordance with Union legislation, the relevant data contained in the national electronic register are also to be available to all competent authorities of the Member State concerned. The draft law on which we are proceeding contains provisions that will enable the proper register to be established and the obligations related to the sharing of data to be carried out. This register shall be kept in the electronic system by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. The draft states that the register will consist of the following records: firstly, economic operators who are authorised to pursue the occupation of road transport operator, secondly, serious infringements, thirdly, persons who have been declared unable to manage the transport operations of the trader until the return to good repute. In accordance with European legislation, Poland, like other countries, should take all necessary measures to ensure that national electronic registers are interconnected and accessible throughout the Community. The draft law provides that the task of the contact point will be carried out in this respect by the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. Interestingly and rationally, at the same time, because it has not always been so, the bill contains a provision allowing the chief inspector to take immediate action to establish a national electronic register, including the execution of a public contract, i.e. to spend funds before the legislation creating that register enters into force. However, there is a question here concerning the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as transport, and its information systems. Why didn't the government decide to set up a single system to carry out new tasks, including existing systems, i.e. central records of infringements and Transbit? These systems could be powered by Central Registration and Information on Business Activity and National Court Register. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill it is quite laconic, but it seems that this is not an explanation. For the record, this is no change from previous years. I ask this because Minister Streżyńska has repeatedly indicated in her speeches that only by combining these systems can we use the economies of scale and stop wasting public funds. Unfortunately, in this situation there will be another system for several tens of millions of zlotys, and in fact it will perform in part the same tasks that other systems perform. Now, back to the rules, I want to see a change going in the right direction. The amendment consists in the addition to the powers of the principal inspector of the right to issue a discharge from the authorisation granted to pursue the occupation of carrier. Currently, a first-time applicant for this authorisation is unable to obtain a discharge because the Chief Inspector does not have such competence. The amendment will, first of all, define these competences, second, the fees for issuing the discharge will be lower. In addition, the proposal also contains other adaptation provisions, which, as I mentioned earlier, will be discussed in detail and to which we will refer in further work in the committee. In view of the position of the club presented by me, I request that the draft law on amending the Road Transport Act be passed to the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u507	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski will speak on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u508	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today's draft amendment to the Road Transport Act goes against - as my previous speakers have already said - and how widely and precisely he spoke about it in the Minister's introductory word - the requirements that we should meet according to the European Parliament and Council Regulations of 2009 and 2010, according to which we are obliged as a Member State to keep the National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs. Since it is not possible to create a National Register of Electronic Road Transport Entrepreneurs using existing registers, i.e. the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity and the National Court Register, justified and deliberate and necessary to meet certain requirements that we face not only because of the need to implement the Directive, but also because of economic and social requirements, it is necessary to adopt a decision to establish such a register, which will be connected by a contact point with the registers of other Member States of the European Union, which will enable the exchange of data between them and the functioning of our companies and businesses on the European market. The register will be built on the basis of registers operating in the Central Road Transport Inspector and the records of road carriers kept by the district old towns and cities on the rights of the county. As my previous speakers have said, it will consist of three records, i.e. a requirement that is correct, in accordance with the rule, with requirements, with certain mechanisms to ensure the proper functioning of the organizational scheme. The exchange of information, the flow of information with the possibility to make available to relevant services, inspections and guards is also ensured. The financial cost of introducing the register has also been determined, as well as the time limit within which it will become operational. As I said, because of the importance, rank and weight of the species and the importance of this decision, we request that the bill be passed on to the committee for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u509	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that seven Members have joined the questions. I am closing the list of Members who have been enrolled in the question. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Płępek from the Civic Platform. There isn't. Mr Jerzy Polakzek from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to refer once again to an example of the effects of the French regulation on the legal inability of Polish carriers to provide transport services on the territory of the French Republic from 1 July 2016. I want to remind you that 80% freight exchange between Poland and France - I gave this number 16 billion - is carried out in the form of road transport. The lack of formal basis for Polish carriers may result in irreversible economic effects, a sharp deterioration of economic condition or even bankruptcy due to the fact that the electronic register will enter into force from 1 April 2017. I have a question for the Minister: Does the government anticipate in the context of the Parliament's work yet [[♪ The bell ♪]] any additional proposals for transitional provisions which would allow Polish carriers to have a temporary formal basis for carrying out such operations, even by means of the use of records in the existing IT system, which is in the office of international road transport...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u511	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u512	...in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction? Is that a transitional arrangement you're willing to allow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u513	The question is now asked by Mrs Iwona Michalek, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u514	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen and honourable Members, Mr Grabarczyk, speaking today, very carefully quoted all the rules. It's a pity that his government hadn't put so much pressure on the creation and implementation of this law. It wouldn't be a problem, we wouldn't have to rush, there wouldn't be any charges that something wasn't exactly done, etc. I have a question for the Minister. Is there a risk that the European Commission will impose penalties on Poland due to delays in the implementation of the National Electronic Register of Road Transport Entrepreneurs? And what could be the other consequences of these delays for Polish carriers in international transport? I also wanted to ask if the Minister was going to draw any consequences for those who had been working for so long, because it has been a while since 2010. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then I ask the Minister to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u515	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Mr Sitarski from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First thing. Companies, those who have seriously infringed Community rules on road transport, are entities which should practically no longer be on the market for transport services. According to the draft amendment to the Road Transport Act, is it sufficient to prove a good reputation instead of a certificate only a declaration of non-criminality? This is the first case. And the second point: duplication of records and registers. I would like to ask for information on how other countries are working on the implementation of electronic registers of road transport operators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u517	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u518	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two short questions. Transport industry, road transport industry is developing very well in Poland. Can you give the High House up-to-date data on how many vehicles we estimate this sector of the economy today? If we don't have this data today, I'm asking for written information. The second point is a specific one. The law, but also European legislation, uses the concept of a requirement of good repute. Art. 7d is transformed. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 provides for an exception that, after considering all the circumstances of the case, it can be concluded that the loss of good repute will be disproportionate [[♪ The bell ♪]] response for violations. Has the Ministry analysed this situation, especially in the context of change? Isn't this arbitrary determination by the authority a corruption? I admit I have a problem with that. Your opinion, please. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u519	Thank you. The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The operation of many companies depends on transport. Often delivery of goods at the right time is crucial for their business. Therefore, the possibility of verifying road transport undertakings made available to citizens and businesses is a particularly important solution introduced by this law. Polish transport is leading in Europe. How will the government protect him? The Germans introduced a minimum wage regulation and the French published a regulation into the so-called. The Macron bill. What are the government's ideas to stand up to? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u521	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u522	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to go back to the system because I didn't have time to ask a question. Minister! I would very much ask for a detailed explanation of this case, because it is difficult to agree with the argument that there are no appropriate mechanisms, whether it is hardware, or programmed to enable the safe and multifaceted use of a system that processes some kind of data. It seems that the reasons may be quite different from those mentioned there. I'm shooting: I don't know, maybe you have some problems with using your databases, I don't know, maybe lack of access to source codes, some ownership issues. I would very much ask you to explain this in detail. I am all the more surprised by this proposed solution that not more than yesterday, as Minister Streżyńska said, 50% of the IT infrastructure, which is in the hands of the government, is not being used and new solutions are being adopted all the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now according to the project we will spend at least 50 million PLN. I wanted to ask if these regulations were consulted with the Ministry of Digitalization and what was the position. How much has been spent on CEN and Transbit so far? How much does it cost a year to maintain these systems? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u523	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Kazimierz Smolinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer Mr Polak's question. French recipes. On 9 April 2016, the Decree of 7 April 2016, which amends, amends the rules on road transport and provides that as of... It is an implementing provision for the Article. 281 Act of 16 August 2015, which was also mentioned here, that it is so-called. The Macron bill. Of course, the government, the Road Transport Inspection will do everything to make it possible to issue a certificate of registration from the date of entry into force of this law. All data to be collected will be included in these certificates. Do the French consider these certificates sufficient under their law? We don't know that. That's some practice you're gonna get, isn't it? Of course, everything needs to be done at diplomatic level, as it was done in the case of German regulations, so that they do not apply, at least for the time being. I think there's a chance of that in France. Let us hope that the certificates that will be issued will be sufficient for the French administration not to block our transport in France in terms of both international and cabotage transport in France. However, of course, this threat exists, which is why it is necessary to proceed as quickly as possible over this law, so that later the transport inspection can implement the whole system as soon as possible, of course by applying the requirements I was talking about, namely the Public Procurement Act. And, of course, implementation. I will also say, answering other questions, that there have been many attempts to use existing systems before, but it turns out that it is not that simple. However, these systems are created for other purposes. They can't be compiled directly to download this data. That's one thing. Secondly, the information we have shows that there does not have to be a cheaper attempt at using existing systems to create one than to create a new system for the sole purpose of this law and this European regulation at the moment. However, we believe that creating a separate system will be faster and cheaper than trying to use existing electronic systems. What are the consequences of the delay in this bill? The European Commission has opened proceedings before the Court of Justice in an action against Poland, which is why it is urgent to establish this register. According to our information, a penalty of about 38,000 can be applied theoretically. Euros per day. If we consider that this is more than five years ago, I am sorry, yes, since 2012, so we are four years old, almost four years late - it is already tens of millions of euros in terms of the potential threat of the Court's application of the penalty. On the other hand, the further we are involved in the implementation of this law, the greater our chances of defending ourselves before the Court, possibly reducing the possible penalty, will, of course, have an impact, which is why it is so important to proceed quickly. As far as a good reputation is concerned, I wouldn't be afraid to say that there's going to be some problem with the arbitrary determination of this issue by inspection. It is clearly defined in the rules when the loss of good repute occurs, so unless any of the events provided for in those rules occur, this good reputation exists. Only when there are incidents in the form of certain crimes that are foreseen there or other events, the loss of this reputation... [[But you can say it didn't happen.]] ...can follow. As for the number of vehicles... Excuse me? [[But it can be concluded that it did not occur, even though these circumstances would occur.]] Well, yeah, but I can't imagine that it's arbitrary to say that this reputation can be lost without reason. [[Exactly.]] Besides, it's also gonna be an administrative procedure... [[We'll discuss it on the committee.]] Exactly. ...which is also subject to certain rigors and appeals. As for the number of vehicles, I don't know the exact data. We know it's over 30,000. licenses are issued in Poland, functioning, is said to be about 150 thousand. vehicles, but we will check this thoroughly, and I will answer the question, Mr. Minister. It should also be borne in mind that although the rigor or the requirements of this law apply to all entrepreneurs, i.e. those large and micro-entrepreneurs, the proportionality of the activity will also be taken into account by applying the rigor of this law. So that here, nevertheless, it should not be assumed that there will be some harm to these small businesses by such strict treatment. The Authority will also have to take into account the proportionality of the activity carried out, whether it is one vehicle, whether it is tens, hundreds of vehicles, the amount of transport carried out, etc. This will all be taken into account. If I have not answered any of the questions in detail, I will answer them in writing, and I think we will have an opportunity to exchange opinions while working in committee. I thank all the clubs for their declarations of work on this bill, and I think that we will soon be able to renegotiate this bill so that it will enter into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u525	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the Road Transport Act, contained in print No 459, to the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. The 95b Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 20 June 2016. I would like to inform you that the planned agenda item: The report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft act on the Bank Guarantee Fund, the deposit guarantee scheme and the compulsory restructuring will be considered at the next meeting of the Sejm. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks (Prints Nos 472 and 484). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u526	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate's resolution on the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks, print No. 472. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 5 May the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The committee meeting was held yesterday. The Senate resolution contains eight amendments. They were all discussed yesterday. They do not introduce any substantive, new amendments to the Act, clarify certain issues, and are to a certain extent guaranteed in connection with the concreteization of the provisions previously contained in the Act. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering the Senate's resolution at yesterday's sitting, asks the Sejm to accept all the amendments of the Senate. I would add that the committee was practically unanimous on the individual points.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u527	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u528	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has supported this law proposed by the government since the beginning of its work in the Sejm. We agree with the applicants that the solutions they adopt will contribute to improving citizens' sense of security and, thanks to the preventive mechanisms put in place, will also reduce the risk of sexual abuse that those who take care of them could commit to minors. Following fruitful work in the subcommittee, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, and the High House, this law went to the Senate, where a broad consultation of the solutions taken continued, resulting in eight technical and corrective amendments, as has already been mentioned. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the amendments made to the High House in the Senate resolution on the Law on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks. It is appropriate to agree with the position of the Senate, which, when adopting Amendment 1, considered that it was necessary to supplement the scope of the data in the register with limited access, as indicated in the amendment, with the information that allows a precise calculation of the deadline for deletion of the data from the register. In this amendment, the Senate rightly proposes to extend the scope of the data collected in the register to all cases entered in the National Criminal Register concerning the person in the register. Amendment 2 clarifies what data should be included in the public register. In the third amendment, the Senate, on the basis of the need to remove inequalities between the different categories of persons entered in the register, introduced uniform rules in the event of the restoration of the time limit for appeal against a judgment recorded in the register, the repeal of such a decision as a result of the deletion or the reopening of proceedings, which also deserves the support of the High House. Which is particularly valuable in Amendment 4. The Senate has supplemented the law on provisions to correct personal data contrary to the content of the judgment which do not correspond to the provisions in the relevant documents or which do not comply with the facts. On the other hand, the 5th amendment extends the scope of the data contained in the registration card by the court. It is appropriate to agree with the reasoning put forward by the Senate that Amendment 6 has become necessary in view of the obligation laid down in the Act to publish the image of the person included in the register in order to identify the person in error. Amendments 7 and 8 concern inter-temporal cases and are, in our view, necessary for the correct implementation of the new rules. In view of the above, Members of the Parliamentary Club are in line with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and will vote in favour of the Senate's amendments. Thank you very much. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u529	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u530	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the resolution of the Senate of 29 April 2016 on the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks, print No 472. The Senate has introduced eight amendments into the text of the Act. Most of the amendments tabled are clear, legislative. Amendment 4 introducing the article deserves to be underlined. 18a, which regulates in detail the procedure for dealing with the entry in the register of incorrect data which are contrary to the content of the judgment or which do not correspond to the records in the relevant documents or which do not comply with the facts. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 18a allow incorrect data to be corrected in the register. Amendments 7 and 8 regulate the rules of procedure during the transitional period so as to avoid possible problems in the application of the law. The Senate amendments made in the opinion of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club deserve to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u531	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u532	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Kukiz's citizens' movement15, unlike the political party, which has the adjective "citizen" in its name, puts the safety of Poles and the rights of victims first. The time when crime was fought was over under the dictation of people who were in conflict with the law. The time has run out for the previous governments, which have focused on extending the guarantee to suspects and accused persons. In criminal law, the primary determinant of State action should be a safeguard function which places emphasis on victims. Ask what gestures the PO-PSL governments have made towards the criminal world. Here we go again: shortening the period of statute of limitations, which is in fact a great bow towards the criminal world, a unfortunate July amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was intended to kill the state, the police and the prosecution of teeth in the fight against crime, making suspects and accused entities of privileged standing. The fruit of the poisoned tree or the changes in the criminal legislation concerning the activities of companies that have allowed some to avoid criminal liability could be further mentioned. High Seym! It's time for this House to show more resilience to lobbying for criminals. It is time for this House to create a law to serve its citizens, a law to protect its victims. I am not surprised that during this time convenient for criminals, as evidenced by the results of voting in prisons, no one has noticed changes in the structure of sexual crime, including the most dangerous one, because it targets children. High Izbo! The legal model of the response to child sexual crime is based on registers covering, among others. people called pedophiles. The Kukiz Club15 strongly supports the creation of such registers, especially as it will be a public register and thus enable the public to respond adequately to existing threats. For us, victims' rights will always be more important than legal guarantees for those committing crimes. Saying this, I do not regret that Kukiz15 will not have such high ratings among criminal circles. Let the criminals vote for the ones they always vote for. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The state must protect the victims. After eight years, vacations for criminals end. I repeat, zero tolerance for sex offenders, zero tolerance for child abusers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u533	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u534	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club on the report of the Senate's Senate resolution on the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime, Print Nos 472 and 484. In Amendment 1. The Senate proposes to supplement and extend the scope of data collected in the register. We therefore negatively assess the inclusion in the register of cases other than those for which the register is established. It was designed to prevent certain behaviors, but it was not meant to contain a criminal's life record. In Amendment 2. The Senate shall specify what data should be included in the public register. In the 3rd Amendment, the Senate improves the provisions on the restoration of the deadline by harmonising them for all categories. Amendment 4 partially responds to serious reservations raised, including: by the Modern, regarding the recognition in the Register of Inappropriate Persons. Here it is good that the Senate listened to these concerns, because the lack of a correct opportunity to correct the information contained in the register could put innocent people at risk of very serious consequences coming into their lives. Amendments 5 to 8 amend the draft law on detailed solutions. However, ladies and gentlemen, this does not change our overall assessment of this law. We believe that some solutions will cause further suffering for those who have already been harmed. Unfortunately, in this regard, the Senate has not shown the will to submit amendments. These solutions, which we have doubts about, are a public register and a map of particularly dangerous places. These solutions do not balance the good sides of this law, i.e. the obligation to check the person before they are allowed to work with children and the obligation to report the whereabouts of criminals. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate once again, by addressing the representatives of the government, that the Modern Posel Club expects such a really in-depth analysis of the possibility of implementing a better, holistic, and therefore a more effective system by which our country could really fight against this kind of crime, and the presentation of an appropriate bill without defects, which is contained in the present law, because I think everyone here agrees that such real, real, effective protection of children is absolutely necessary for us in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u535	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Pasyk, the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u536	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the Senate's Senate resolution on the Act on the Prevention of Sexual Crime Risks. I agree with the rapporteur that the Senate amendments are more specific. In most cases, it is important to recognise the right direction, which has been adopted in the course of the Senate's work, maybe with the exception of Amendment 1, because the purpose of the bill is to create a register of sex offenders. This raises doubts: What is the purpose of including all information on other crimes in this register? After all, this information is contained in the National Criminal Register. As regards Amendment 2, it clarifies the scope of the data available in the public register, and there are no comments in this regard. As regards Amendment 3, the right to delete an entry in the register has been added to those persons who have been effectively reinstated to challenge the judgment recorded in the register. This is also the right direction, it's hard to blame this solution, these changes have gone in the right direction. As regards Amendment 4, the possibility of correcting the data in the register was added. This is the right solution because otherwise it would cause many procedural problems. Amendment 5. This is the harmonisation of the law with the National Criminal Register Act. There's no objection here either. Amendments 6, 7, and 8 do not raise any major objections, but our doubts remain as to the whole of the law which outweighed the benefits, the sceptical attitude of the club which I am pleased to represent, against this law. We are afraid that, as a result, in the practical application of this law, it will unfortunately stigmatize the victims of this sex-based crime, which are already painfully experienced by the consequences of these crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u537	Thank you very much, sir. One Member joined the questions. Would any of you like to sign up? If not, I will close the list of Members. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u538	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I wanted to ask you this question, because there is still some confusion about what is the group of criminals that can be included in this register. I wanted to ask you if you were analysing how many people would be in the register, both in the private and in the public, if the rules had already made a commitment to include the data of these criminals in the register. I would very much ask for such information, I do not know, in 2014 or 2015, if you have such an analysis. If it was not possible to provide such information now, I would ask you very much to prepare such information in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u539	Thank you very much, sir. Would the Minister like to speak? Please, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Patrick Jak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u540	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Speaker! Thank you so much for that question. If we were to adopt statistics related to this type of crime and remove them directly from the KRK register, there would be about 1,500 crimes, but this would be a simplification, because as you know, we will collect new data, including in the public register. That is why it will certainly be a little more people. But I have no doubt that they will be the most dangerous criminals. I stress that I have a personal conviction that this is how we are able to save at least a few victims a year, and perhaps more, as in the United States. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u541	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Polish Charter and some other laws (prints Nos 473 and 496). I ask Mr Michał Dworczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u542	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the adoption of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on the Charter of Poles and some other laws, print No. 473. On 5 May 2016, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Commission for Communication with Poles abroad and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for its consideration. The Senate tabled a total of 30 amendments. The overwhelming majority of these 30 amendments were legislative-editing. Out of these 30 amendments, 28 amendments were approved by the committee. Only amendment 11 and amendment 15 of the joint committees have given a negative opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u543	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Michał Dworczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u544	The Law and Justice Club proposes to adopt amendments in the formula proposed by the joint committees: the Communication Commission with Poles abroad and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u545	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u546	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club in relation to the law amending the Polish Charter Act, print No. 473. The bill came back from the Senate with 30 amendments, a significant number of which are corrective, legislative amendments. Legislators' proposal for specific provisions... I'm not taking care of them. I would like to address three amendments, although I would like to point out that this number of amendments and the entire description of the amendments of the Senate show little precision in the bill. The first of these amendments - Amendment 3 - addresses two very important issues. The first issue is the right to benefit, and this cash benefit is the essence of the entire amendment of the law. In fact, the most important issue is the right to benefit or the right to apply for a benefit. This issue has been clarified. This issue is extremely important for the beneficiaries themselves. This amendment, of course, is valid, important and must be supported. The second point, also of extreme importance, is the claim and award. That's another unprecise issue. It is not known if you read the law, how many times and in what way, in which form the applicant may apply for it. It is very good that this issue has been settled. Amendment 16 concerns the validity of the Polish Charter. It's a very basic issue. This required clarification, it seems, much earlier. I'm glad it happened. Finally, Amendment 22. setting out the mechanism for halting the acceptance of claims for benefits. This is an extremely important thing, because the entire bill on assumptions and many bonuses for the holders of the Polish Charter seeking a permanent residence card does not specify or give little, not enough about the rules for granting it, but much about reducing applications. If 75% is exhausted reserves, and this reserve is not specified in absolute figures, it will actually not be known how much money will be spent on these multiple nine-month benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done, Marshal. So it's a summary word. It seems that the bill is too vague. The Senate has clarified a lot of issues, but also during the work of the committee we have not received answers to various very important questions about finance. These issues are still open. That's why there's anxiety. With this unprecise law and raising the high expectations of the holders of the Polish Charter, who will be entitled to apply for these benefits, they may experience very bitter disappointment and great disappointment due to insufficient resources and lack of information on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u547	Proceed to the end, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u548	So that the Civic Platform will support this law, while at the same time raising doubts about the substance, because the future financing of tasks, presented by the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u549	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u550	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u551	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u552	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We as a Kukiz club15 are very pleased that at last the Kresowians... that their affairs are being discussed in the High House. As regards the amendments adopted by the Senate, presented by the Senate, of course, most of these amendments, we are adopting legislative amendments. In the event of the loss of validity of the Polish Charter, we still stand in the position that the promotion of flagship, and such behaviour in Poland, took place precisely among people from Ukraine, for example, and who have the Polish Charter, should result in the removal of the Polish Charter, especially the memory of our compatriots in Ukraine. We accept these amendments as much as possible. We hope that in the future we will also take care of repatriation, helping Poles and promoting Polishness in Ukraine and the rest of the Eastern Kresów. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u553	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Modern from the beginning supports this project, because it is a good solution for our fellow countrymen abroad. We hope that as many Poles as possible will benefit from this solution, who do not by their own fault remain outside the territory of the Republic. As far as the Senate amendments are concerned, they are, in most cases, editorial or clarification. There's a few adjustments. Mrs Fabisiak has already mentioned Amendment 22. I will also mention amendment 26 which reduces the waiting period for citizenship. I regret that the amendments that we tabled in the course of the bill as a modern club were not accepted in both seym and senate works. It is a question of financial assistance for our older compatriots, but also a second proposal - sealing the system. Let me remind you that we have called for a limitation on the possibility of issuing the Polish Kart on the basis of certificates issued by Polish organizations. We're going to be watching this situation because I'm still saying that it's a major threat. I think we'll have to get back to this soon, in another novel. Regardless of this, we support this solution and we will vote in favour of this law and the Senate amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u555	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, PSL club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u556	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position regarding the amendment of the Polish Charter Act and some other laws, print no. 473. The Polish People's Party strongly declares its support and is in favour of implementing the Polish Charter Act as soon as possible. Polish People's Party at the start of work on the Polish Charter Act strongly supports it. As regards the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending the Polish Charter Act and some other laws, on 1 April the Sejm adopted it and the Senate tabled amendments to it. We will vote as recommended by the Communication Commission with Poles abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u557	Thank you very much, sir. Nobody asked questions, so I'm closing the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. Is Mr Poleczek in the room? There isn't. If you'll allow us not to waste time, we'll move on to the next point. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub z Paradyża w Gorzów Wielkopolski (prints no. 471 and 482). I would like to ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act establishing the Academy. Jakub z Paradyża w Gorzów Wielkopolski, print no. 471. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on 5 May 2016 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. On 10 May 2016, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered the above resolution. The Senate has tabled four amendments to the resolution. The Commission considered that all four amendments should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u559	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Elżbieta Rafalska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u560	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's meeting will close almost work on the Act on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. A dot above the High Sejm, I hope, will tomorrow, accept, I think, the amendments proposed by the Senate and the bill will be waiting for the examination and signature of the President. In this way a very important stage for Gorzów and the northern region of Lubuskie Voivodeship will be completed - an academy is being established in Gorzów Wielkopolski. I would like to approximate in several sentences the various stages of the work on this draft law. The bill, and a group of applicants were Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, was sent to the Sejm on 15 January this year and was given a print number 220. On 31 March of this year, the first reading was held in committee and on 12 April the second reading was held at the Sejm meeting. The project was addressed to the third reading, which took place on 13 April at the Sejm meeting, when the Members voted in favour of this law. 405 Members voted in favour, 7 against, 9 abstentions. On 29 April, the Senate sent this law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth. The Commission has proposed amendments that the Senate has accepted. These amendments were also presented at the meeting of the Parliament committee on 10 May with a proposal from the committee recommending the adoption of the proposed amendments. The four amendments referred to by the rapporteur, Marzena Machalek, are amendments that introduce changes in order, clarification and legislative changes. All these amendments deserve support. The first of these amendments has the greatest substantive dimension. She refers to the issue of converting the word "student" to the words "persons accepted for the first year of study." This is due to the fact that the Academy is set up on 1 September and the academic year starts in October. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The other three amendments, as I said earlier, clarify the wording of the various articles - Article. 6, 7 and 8. Therefore, on behalf of my club, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I recommend supporting all four Senate amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u561	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Krystyna Sibinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u562	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We talked about the need for Gorzów Academy during the debate on the bill. He's back in print 471 today. There is a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Senate amendments. There are four amendments, as mentioned by my previous speaker, and all these amendments only improve the provisions of our law, clarify, make it more transparent in the implementation of this law. As I said at the beginning, the Academy in Gorzów is the work of many different circles, that is, the waiting of students, the waiting of employers, that is the adaptation of the State Higher Vocational School to the needs that are on the educational market both in Gorzów and in the whole Lubuskie voivodship, it is also a great opportunity for our region. Therefore, there are no reasons, no contraindications, not to support this law. Moreover, the Civic Platform Club expressed this in the vote on the draft law in the Sejm. In the Senate, too, this was passed by an excellent majority. Today, too, as a representative of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that these amendments introduced by the Senate will be supported, as we have consistently supported the law on the establishment of the Academy. Jakub from Paradyz in Gorzów Wielkopolski. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u563	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the opportunity to present my position on the amendments of the Senate to the contents of the Act establishing the Academy. Jakub z Paradyża w Gorzów Wielkopolskiego, contained in the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland dated 29 April 2016 After examining the proposals for amendments, the Kukiz Club concludes that they do not affect the substance and the validity of the establishment of the academy, nor do they affect the stages of the process of reaching the expected standards and criteria. Therefore, on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I recommend that the proposed amendments of the Senate be adopted as wording specifying the provisions of the various articles of the Act in a form favourable to the idea of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u565	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u566	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It was worth the wait. I'm not just talking about an hour. 22, which we are discussing on this law, but about almost 10 years, since 2006. Gorzów Wielkopolski is trying to have an academy. The four amendments proposed by the Senate are basically merely ordering, so that we as a club Modernly we agree with them, although as I said at first reading, we are not disciplined, there are some formal shortcomings. For me, however, as a lullaby choice is simple. Gorzów Wielkopolski, lubuskie need large, strong centers, and the academy gives it a chance. I hope that the three years we give the academy will be well used and will meet the criteria that are placed before the university called the academy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u567	Thank you very much, sir. Mr. Krystian Jarubas made a statement in writing. One Member, Mr Norbert Obrycki, the Civic Platform Club, joined the question. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u568	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Not further than yesterday, Minister Gowin talked about the fact that Polish universities are over-regulated, and the best Polish state university is in the rankings of the best universities, e.g. Shanghai ranking, at the end of the fourth hundred. Are we approaching another state university, not too strong at the start, not fulfilling the statutory requirements, set up on an exceptional basis, on a specific credit for trust, or are we moving away so that our Polish universities can be attractive and competitive in Europe and in the world? And the second question is: Isn't it better to combine universities, their scientific potential into strong centres, thus building public funds for fewer scientific units than to disperse more small and weak, not even having the powers to give a doctorate?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u569	Thank you very much, sir. Minister Aleksander Bobko, Minister of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u570	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The answer is this. The establishment of an academy in Gorzów is not the establishment of a new university ex nihilo, it is the transformation of an existing school, a state university, a professional school. One of the objectives of this particular project, about which the High Chamber was informed, was the discussion in committees. Indeed, this conclusion is lacking in the sense that the academy at this point does not meet the requirements of the academy. On the other hand, one idea of calling or just turning into an academy is for consolidation to take place in Gorzów. In Gorzów there is a foreign department of physical education academy. We have these declarations, we believe, we want to believe that this transformation will just facilitate the consolidation of Gorzów universities and allow us to create one stronger unit in the form of an academy than ever before. In this sense, these requirements will be met within two to three years. So this is not in contradiction with what Prime Minister Gowin said, although, of course, the possible doubts that Mr Gowin presents can also be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u571	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u572	The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party raises no objections to the amendments adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u573	We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. I understand that Mr Polakzek did not show up. In the absence of the rapporteur, point 21 of the agenda will not be dealt with today. [[Oh!]] I am so sorry, my fellow Members. [[You're welcome.]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 May. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Bernadette Krynick, the Law and Justice Club. Is there a Member? [[Józef Ratchrzek-Żelazko: There is none.]] There isn't. Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club? [[Yes, I am, Marshal.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u574	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For more than 20 years the inhabitants of Klimonov, a charming town lying in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, have experienced the nuisance resulting from hundreds of heavy cars passing through the middle of their town every day from the dolomite mine in Jurkowice. The scale of this problem is demonstrated by the fact that such cars pass more than 1200 during the day and that they drive every 40 seconds. This case has been well known to the promising authorities for many years by building a ring road that would lead to truck traffic outside the Klimon. Unfortunately, so far the promises made in this matter can be praised with an old Polish proverb: promises of cacanks and stupid joy. At least that's how they evaluate the actions of the authorities so far, the inhabitants of Klimonkov, with whom I am in constant contact and which I support in their efforts to get the truck traffic out of their town. Why do they say that? Because in spite of the occasional information about the construction of the ring road, nothing really happens in this case, and cars like they drive, they drive around, and basically they drive around the Klimonts. It is said that they are over-charged, that they cause the walls and foundations of residential buildings to break, and in the historic 17th-century college of St. St. Joseph, a sacral object of exceptional beauty and extraordinary originality. Strange treatments are used instead of solving the problem. This is the way to name changes in the organisation of traffic and to direct part of it to the street. Sandomierz. This decision brought some relief, but to many others it resulted in a deterioration of living conditions. For on this street there are currently very long traffic jams, and the cars in them emit huge amounts of exhaust gases that poison the air. Unfortunately, despite the requests of the inhabitants, no one has yet carried out a test of their concentration. The protest committee, which was established in Klimonov, for its own measures collected among the inhabitants, carried out noise tests. It was made by the Hydrogeotechnics company. They confirmed that noise standards were exceeded. High Izbo! For many years, the inhabitants of Klimonov have been calling for truck traffic out of their town. The protest committee asked many institutions, both local authorities and the Ombudsman, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration and the voivode of Świętokrzyskie. Once again, there were assurances that the work on the ring road would start soon. Some hopes have aroused information that at least during the holidays truck traffic will be directed to other alternative roads, because such alternative roads for the movement of these trucks exist, only no one will let go that way. At this point, I would like to appeal to all those who have an impact on taking concrete decisions on this matter, so that they can finally take them. Putting them back in time and another conspiracy of the inhabitants of Klimontowa will result in a further decline in their confidence in the authorities and may trigger a protestary action, including blocking roads, and such actions are probably not necessary for anyone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u575	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u576	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! May is the month in which nurses and midwives celebrate the holiday of their profession. On 8 May the Obstetrics Day is celebrated. This day was chosen to commemorate the anniversary of the birth of the great figure of the Polish obstetrics Stanisława Leszczyńska, who was imprisoned in the German concentration camp Auschwitz II - Birkenau as prisoner number 41 335 and served as a midwife there. On the other hand, on 12 May, she was appointed a day nurse by the International Council of Nurses at a convention in Mexico in 1973, because on that day Florence was born the world's most famous nurse Florence Nightingale, considered to be the creator of modern nursing, founder of the first nursing school - 1860 - at St. Thomas in London. The idea of nursing is beautifully given by the nurse's hymn, whose words I would like to remind today: In the world we carry our hearts hot The most beautiful is the idea. To give people peace and the sun To restore hope to the suffering. In our service, we will lead. For the Homeland, her good work And when we have to and we will die To save a man's life. Our profession has passed great days of glory ♪ When freedom was at stake ♪ ♪ When freedom was at stake ♪ There were nurses on the front, too. And they were self - sacrificing in their service. We don't want no wars, we don't want no fights. Enough Brotherly Blood and Fascism Victims We are the sisters of peace. We want to serve the idea of humanism. Ladies and gentlemen! International Nurse and Obstetrics Day is an excellent opportunity to remind the public of these competitions. The first women to care for the sick were nuns. Already in the 17th century, they carried out nursing activities in hospitals that were established at monasteries. After World War I, one of the first nursing schools was founded in Poznań. In Poland, nurses and midwives are the largest professional group in health care and pursue the profession of public trust. According to the data of the Supreme Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, 221 thousand work in our country. Nurses and 26,000. midwives. Nursing and obstetrics are special professions, which are accompanied by each of us from the moment of birth until the end of our lives, requiring professionalism, which consists of excellent substantive preparation, systematic improvement of qualifications, but also, as rarely in which profession, having certain characteristics: unique sensitivity, empathy, caring, patience, unselfish kindness and respect for the dignity of another person, which, no matter what the circumstances, allow to act for people who are sick, disabled, vulnerable, needing care, but also support in unimaginable sometimes suffering. The focus and division of attention, organizational skills, in particular in the field of self-employment and the work of the team, and perception, particularly in the area of rapid and thorough recognition of the status of the subject, are also considered important psychophysical features relevant to these professions. An extremely important feature is moral responsibility, which requires feeling and tact towards the patient, and the obligation of professional secrecy. In addition, it should be stressed that nurses and midwives perform professional tasks in a diverse environment: hospitals, clinics, homes and outdoors, often in accidents or disasters. It is a work of a special nature due to: emotional burden, great responsibility for the patient's health and life, continuous availability, night work, the need to operate complex and expensive medical equipment, the problems arising from working conditions such as stress, the risk of infection with infectious diseases, physical exercise, congestion of the movement system and the risk of aggression from dissatisfied patients or their families. This makes it a very mentally incriminating competition. The financial situation of nurses and midwives is also worrying. We are seeing a rapidly growing shortage of nurses and midwives operating in the health care system. They emigrate for profit and work outside the country where they are valued for their knowledge, experience and expertise. Unfortunately, in Poland the role of nurses and midwives is marginalized and labour costs are underestimated. Hard working conditions and increased responsibility do not encourage them to take up or continue their professional practice in the country. Ladies and gentlemen! Nurses and Nurses! Midwives! Self - sacrificing service to the needy deserves [[♪ The bell ♪]] Highest appreciation and respect. John Paul II said: We must maintain at all costs the beautiful Polish tradition, the activity of a doctor or nurse not only as a profession, but also, and perhaps above all, as a calling, shown as doing good for another man, supporting him in sickness, bringing relief in suffering.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u577	You're very close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u578	Just a minute. Therefore, while appreciating the dedication and patience of those performing this profession, on this special day on the occasion of the annual international holiday of nurses and midwives, I wish all nurses, nurses and midwives the best wishes: health, love, joy and fulfilment in private life, while at work satisfaction with the professional mission being carried out, recognition from superiors, good relations with colleagues and common achievement of goals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u579	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u580	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! For one time I was begging for my beloved, beautiful city of Grudziądz. I want to say yes. The budget of Grudziądz for 2016 is fiction. After massive financial transfers related to the compensation of the loss of the city hospital for the years 2014 to 2015, many expenditures in the city budget are in fact not secured in the planned income. The resolution of the special-purpose reserves does not secure funds for the payment of salaries to municipal staff in the budgetary sphere, school staff, kindergartens, social care centres and offices. What I'm saying is, there's probably not gonna be any payouts for these people in two months. The city has not purchased debt securities issued for years before, and the rolling of debt in this way not only receives the creditworthiness of the municipality and completely closes investment opportunities, but also increases the size of the financial disaster in the years to come. The real financial result of the regional specialised hospital announced in the first days of April calls for another 18 million underestimated losses from the budget. Right now, the hospital is in debt of 550 million. The entire city has over 800 million debts. Its annual budget is 440 million. In this situation, I asked Grudziądz, together with the members of the Movement for Grudziądz, for an assessment of the reality of Grudziąd's budget as at 30 April this year, and for specific monitoring of subsequent resolutions amending Grudziąd's budget. I appeal to President Grudziądz to present immediately the version of the budget for the exceptional circumstances of the city. It is necessary to draw up a version of the exceptional budget. It is necessary to set out the priorities that must be pursued even in the context of the collapse of public finances. It is necessary to establish a list of cases that even bankruptcy should not stop. Priority must be given to expenditure protecting the weakest and poorest inhabitants of Grudziądz. Unnecessary expenses that can be abandoned must be stopped, even if this resignation is painful and unpopular. It is necessary to develop an austerity programme. Programmes should be prepared for the functioning of sensitive areas of the city's activities in the context of the deep public finances crisis of the municipalities. The growing loss of the regional specialist hospital in 2016 is a real threat to the health safety of residents, and the insolvency of the hospital threatens to plunder its assets, which we have built with such difficulty and so great cost. Grudziąd's budget must respond to major threats and challenges. Any other action is merely a sham of activity, a waste of time and a path to the financial disaster of our city. I call for the immediate presentation of the corrective programme and for it to be implemented without delay. I appeal to the people of Grudziądz to put pressure on the president of the city in all possible forms to take the necessary measures to save the city. The city is really on the verge of bankruptcy. I've been asking for this for a year. I've been telling President Grudziądz to do something about it so he can stop this slippery line. And nothing but promises and nothing else. I appeal to the residents, really press hard on President Grudziądz because it will be bad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u581	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u582	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to make a statement regarding the anniversary of the 750th anniversary of my beloved city, the beautiful Koszalin. 750 years ago, Koszalin was founded. I have the honour to represent today in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland 100 thousand Baltic cities with Slavic, Pomerania, Prussian, German and Polish past. The name Koszalin, like the name Pomerania, is Slavic, because the city was founded on Slavic land, which was already part of the state of the Piast rulers of Poland: I, Bolesław Chrobre and Bolesław Krzywoustego. The history of Poland, like the history of Koszalin, is inextricably connected with Christianity. Just as Poland begins its state existence from the baptism in 966 Koszalin begins its urban history with the Bishop's localization act in 1266. Nowy Koszalin was located on Lubecki law, which emphasized his relationship with the sea and maritime economy. He was part of the bishop's dukeship, a kind of theocratic republic, within which the city enjoyed full autonomy. I'm gonna have to cut it short because I'm a little short on time, and that's a shame. The city developed for centuries, seeking to benefit from the seaside position, developing the fleet and maritime trade, belonging to the Hanseatic League, acquiring further coastal estates. In 1446 it fought a victorious battle against Kolobrzeg, fighting the rights to maritime trade. There have also been less boastful episodes in the history of the city: discrimination against the Slavic population in cities and official restrictions on their rights. In Prussian and German times, the Jewish population was included in racist arrangements. In 1945. Pomerania has become the arena of the greatest battle fought by the Polish army since September 1939, a battle occupied by a huge tribute of blood. Breaking the Wał Pomorskie, fighting for Walcz and Mirosławiec, heavy buoys in the vicinity of Wierzchow Złocieniecki, Drawska, the battle for Kołobrzeg, fighting in the area of Dziwnow - these are just some episodes of this campaign. As part of the Pomeranian operation, Koszalin was captured, becoming a Polish city with time. With all the historical baggage, Koszalin received after the war the first visitors from Gniezno, Pomerania, Wielkopolska, as well as other areas of the country, repatriates from the East, from the West, Warsaw, who could not return to the destroyed capital. First of all, the reconstruction of the city, which was destroyed by the city's war activities, was started, and then its rapid expansion. In 1972, after the normalization of relations with the Federal Republic of Germany, a new Koszalin-Kobrzeska diocese with the bishop's capital in Koszalin was established. Today it is a modern, European, well organized city, still fulfilling traditional maritime ambitions, a city full of greenery and souvenirs of the past, but most of all beautiful neighborhoods and settlements. Koszalin - the city from which Poland should be proud, because it is in Poland that Koszalin has experienced the greatest, greatest period of its flourishing. Wonderful location between the sea from the north, the highest elevation in the southern Baltic - Chełmska Mountain from the east, dense coniferous forests from the south and beech forest from the west, with many lakes and rivers, midland manor houses and palaces makes Koszalin one of the most beautiful towns in Poland. However, it is still difficult to get here, because large road investments tend to avoid our region. In Koszalin there is another generation, for which the city is a homeland, a place on earth, ancestral land. A few years ago, Koszalin based its borders on the seaside lake Jamno, becoming a maritime city, investing millions in the Polish Coast, in water regulations and hydrotechnical buildings, benefiting itself and Poland's maritime potential. On the occasion of the 750th anniversary of the city, bearing in mind the historical experiences of this land, the good and bad moments of the past, I would like to express in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland the deep hope that not only Koszalin will be surrounded by a caring homeland, bringing its benefits and giving it a shine, but also Poland will see its chance in Koszalin, a unique city, open, hospitable, devoted and faithful Poland. Polish, be proud of Koszalin. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u583	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Teresa Nolas, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u584	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! This statement is made on behalf of myself and my club colleague Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski. Today, we are facing a very important historical fact for us, the 35th anniversary of registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). At that time, on a May day, such as today, on 12 May 1981, the Provincial Court in Warsaw examined the application for registration of NSZZRI (Solidarity). This was preceded by the adoption by the Sejm of laws allowing the legalization of trade union activities, but before that, Polish farmers fought hard for independent rights and privileges for their state. Without trade unions, Polish farmers could not fully participate in social life because such activities were illegal by law. In general, the idea of solidarity as a whole belongs to the Polish heritage and is a common good which has been occupied by work, suffering, arrests and even the loss of life by many people. There should therefore be no doubt that the effort of all those who contributed to the registration of the association and subsequently its activities over the period of 35 years should be duly honoured. In addition to fighting the agricultural community for the above, the role of prominent people, which contributed directly to this success, must be appreciated. That was the person the Primate Stefan Wyszyński was. It's his determination. In conversations with that authority, it resulted in success. After registration of the workers' solidarity in January 1981, priest Primate argued: It cannot be a chosen and privileged category of workers in our homeland. If you have agreed to a working self-government, then you must agree to an agricultural self-government. And they had to. Today, from this place, as agricultural activists, we bow low to every act of drawing out a helping hand and a proper understanding of the common good. I am faced with a serious dilemma as to how to assess in a few words the hard work of thousands of our trade unionists and their families. It is certainly love for God and homeland, love for the mother of the earth, love for the heritage and future of Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Senate of the Republic of Poland celebrated the 35th anniversary of the registration of the NSZZRI In one of the operatives of this resolution we read: the Senate of the Republic of Poland, appreciating the importance and importance of independent agricultural trade unions in Poland, expresses its deep appreciation and thanks to the founders, members and authorities of the NSZZRI and all those who contributed to its formation and registration, as well as those who supported the union and its members. It's a beautiful gesture. From this point on, I thank all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators and the applicant, our President, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski. Personally, I would like to thank our fellow trade unionists, wishing to add that their work is a fine example of typical social work. Dear trade unionists, all these years you have fought for the highest national, spiritual, economic values. Without your fight - because that's what we need to call it today - we wouldn't have achieved all this. You probably remember the blockades of sugar holding companies and the procedural work for the creation of a Polish sugar group. It was very difficult, but let me mention only some achievements. We, together with sugar workers, did not allow these establishments to be sold into the hands of foreign capital. We are glad that the Polish land, for which we fought so bravely in the green town for 120 days and nights, has been legally protected. The work of the Ministry of Agriculture and Governmental Solutions adopted should be recognised here. It should be added that every larger or smaller action of ours over these 35 years solving important problems has always been very enjoyable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sometimes it's just that some people forget about it, but, well, it's one of our trade-related risks, which, as it's said, we're pretty much in the bank. Still, no honors, no careers are most important to you, although I know that many of you would be very useful in public service.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u585	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u586	So let me say thank you from here. I thank you for your great heart and for your commitment, for your determination to fight for a better perspective for the Polish countryside, for your time, for sharing this time in our public space and for the generosity you are famous for, because no one has ever paid you any travel expenses, and this is your very important added value to this union institution. Thank you, too, to all the sympathetic and friendly environments. Thank you for the solidarity of the workers and the media, those who worked with us. Finally, I cordially thank you, our dear office workers, young energy people...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u587	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, you've already been out of time a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u588	...who are committed to this matter. We wouldn't move without you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u589	Thank you, Member. I would really like to ask you to do this for half a minute... Mr. Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u590	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What are we going to do with this mortar, the most modern device of the Polish army, if we don't have any ammunition for it? You remember, dear listeners, this thread in the speech of the Minister of National Defence, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, who was the last of the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło recalled the facts of the audit on the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in 2007 and 2015. During the debate there were various themes, among others. the content of the audit, i.e. the presented factography concerning those events which have been documented, based on financial, formal or causal analysis. Nothing was sucked out of a propaganda finger. Heads of individual ministries, ministers with great care about the word presented the state of affairs after a decade of PO-PSL governments. With each speaker, we felt more and more overwhelmed, amazed, and disbelief. Despite this state of spirit, overwhelmingness, amazement, unfortunately, the naked facts were constantly coming in. We felt bad about it, and that's all. Both those who sat in the Sejm's plenary room and in front of the screens, because the facts were overwhelming, crushing the seats, forcing them to react. Sometimes one of the viewers uglylylyly enchanted, someone else threw a slipper towards the screen, or turned off the transmission. The trouble is, if we don't separate ourselves from this reality, she's the one who got us. The description that emerges from this audit points to one more thing that we have not yet shown, namely the mechanism for creating the so-called. Dirty community. Often, through the system of guys, family ties or ordinary clientelelicism, many of us became beneficiaries of this arrangement, jam, whose distributor was jealous and cynical in condition given to the power of PO-PSL. So if we audit the governments of POs and PSLs, then we must also critically confront our own behaviours, attitudes towards what this authority has done. And don't pretend that you don't understand what I'm talking about, but you keep saying that as much in the 2015 autumn elections was supported by PiS and PO. Today, many of you, supporters of PO and PSL, have a more difficult situation than I do, because I did not trust this power, I may have seen more, differently than those of you who trusted them, took for a good coin of propaganda, as they said then, narration. Now, however you cover your ears and your eyes, pretending nothing happened, you will not change the facts, therefore you must change your judgments about those who have failed you, unless you are like them: cynical, calculating and greedy. And this is difficult, and I am not going to comfort you or encourage you to judge your conscience. In life, you know it as well as I do, the situation of disappointed hopes and expectations is paralyzing, often blocking reasonable thinking, creating a certain problem. Formal audit of PO and PSL governments has been carried out and carried out. Now the ball's on your side. Despite what you've heard, will you continue to follow them? Will you audit your own attitudes? Does it really bother you that many of your political leaders, morally and politically, have been ignoblely exposed? What are you gonna do about it, countryman? How are you gonna get out of this diabolical psychic mat? Where to find the road? You have to do it yourself. There is another Poland waiting for you from the audit scenario. Come, come. I'm waiting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u591	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Bartłomiej Stawiarski, club Law and Justice. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u592	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! People of Opole! People of the Bank! The beautiful historical city of Brzeg in Opole became one of the symbols of fighting the communist apparatus of the state, apparatus of repression, with the Church and the Catholic religion on the so-called. The Recovered Lands. The events which I want to raise in this House today took place on the morning of 26 May 1966 a few weeks after the 1000th anniversary of Poland's baptism. The state headed by Gomulka decided to use almost all the apparatus of repression available to him to prove to the public that the people's power does not intend to yield to the faithful, and especially against the power of faith and Catholic values which shaped the Polish statehood for 1000 years. It was then that the faithful in the Bank wanted to defend the rectory, the popular vicar, which the communists decided to pick up the local parish and allocate it for purposes, as it was then known, serving the general working class. The dramatic conflict about the vicar was the result of the decision of the communist authorities, which decided in 1959 to take over the objects belonging to the Church in the Western lands. In the case of the Bank it was a building near Castle Square 2, adjacent to the Museum of Silesian Piasts and the chapel of St. Jadwiga, where several priests lived at the time. On the premises there were clergymen who were trained in a seminary, who, according to the communist security apparatus, were a potentially threatening element of the state's system. The City Council Bureau in the Bank already tried to pick up the parish building in 1965. The official pretext was to put a plan in the medical facility. Priests were to use another building where the parish law firm functioned. Further appeals, curia interventions and talks with Members of the Sign, who were to convince the communists to withdraw from the decision, ended in a fiasco. In May 1966, priests received an eviction order. On 26 May, the communist authorities decided once and for all to resolve the Brest problem so that the news of possible riots would not cause tensions in the country, and so intensified, according to the authorities, the celebrations of the 1000th anniversary of Poland's baptism. In this regard, it was feared that the Catholic faith in society would be strengthened even more. When on the morning of May 26, the faithful gathered in Castle Square to protect priests from being expelled from the vicarage, the Esbians and the zombies began to pacify them. A few days earlier, ZOMO troops from Wrocław, Katowice and Opole, a total of 350 officers, were brought to the Bank. In the local prison, 100 places were prepared for potential convicts, and military barracks in the Bank were prepared to accept additional zombie meals. In the Castle Square there was a regular battle between the faithful going in procession and the ZOMO troops. Then the events moved to the nearby market, where police and SB made arrests. The communist apparatus of repression worked extremely quickly and efficiently. In a matter of hours, 80 people were arrested, seven of whom were sentenced to prison sentences. Several hundred people were injured. At the authority's command, they were refused to help them. In those memorable days of May 1966, the only time was when we had to write untruth about the victims and the kind of help we needed not to expose the victims to repression - one of the Brest doctors wrote in her memories. According to official records, more than 80 people were detained, several dozen participants were fined and seven were brought to justice. The highest sentence was: 2 years in prison for attempting to overthrow the Polish People's Republic and actively assaulting representatives of the state authorities. After the action of May 26, the authorities, in order to avoid embarrassment, implemented their plan. At the cost of PLN 2 million they rebuilt the rectory and opened a clinic there. High Seym! Here, in this Parliamentary Chamber, this statement on the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism and the 50th anniversary of the Brest events I would like to pay tribute [[♪ The bell ♪]] Heroes of anti-communist speeches, who stood up for the dear values of our nation's identity throughout the century. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u593	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr John Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u594	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) was registered on 12 May 1981. Jan Kułaj was the first president of the union. This function was performed until the time of internment after the declaration of martial law. It was the first such relationship in the history of Poland. NSZZRI.Solidarity was created by numerous initiatives of opposition groups operating in the countryside. The events in Radom and Ursus and the unfair agricultural policy for individual farmers had a significant impact in 1976. Working committees of peasant self-defense in many voivodships and numerous anti-communist opposition have joined the organization of the trade union of farmers. Pre-war PSL activists played a particular role, e.g. Mr Stanisław Mierzwa or Adam Bień. The first meeting of all independent peasant movements took place in September 1980, when the Founding Committee of Rural Solidarity was separated. The chairman of the committee was Zdzisław Ostat, the statute was drafted by Henryk Bąk. This was possible due to government commitments made during the August agreements on the establishment of sustainable prospects for the development of peasant family farms, equal treatment of particular agricultural sectors and equal access to means of production. In line with farmers' demands, provision was made for the authorities to create the conditions for the rebirth of rural self-government. Many other grassroots initiatives have been developed in the process of creating a trade union. The Dobrzyn region's peasant trade union was established, the People's Thought Centre, the Organization Committee of the Local Association of Agricultural Producers and other organisations at regional level. There has been a difficult time to counter divisions and try to unite. All attempts to register in the voivodship court of these unions met with a refusal. During this period, the authorities promoted the machinery rings as a sufficient rural government. Also, attempts to unite these three major groups have failed. The National Council of the Solidarity Agreement was set up, but the authorities tried to prevent the loss of control in the agricultural sector. In December 1980 the 1st National Congress of Agriculturalers of Rural Solidarity took place with the participation of 1500 delegates. The strikes in Rzeszów and Urzych Dolny affected the adjournment of the legal registration of the union. The postulate of registration of the union was supported by the Church and especially by the Primate of Poland Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. Despite discussions between Cardinal Wyszyński and the authorities, the registration of the relationship was still refused. Numerous demonstrations of farmers took place in Warsaw and other localities in Poland. A delegation meeting of all agricultural unions was held in Bydgoszcz and a committee was set up to prepare a reunion. The renewed talks with the government party in Rzeszów and Ustrzyki Dolny ended with the signing of the agreement in February 1981. It is estimated that the farmers' union was around 900,000. Members. A great success was the registration of a united union on 12 May 1981 by the Voivodship Court in Warsaw. The registration was preceded by a mass in the Warsaw Cathedral with numerous participations of the rural community. The date of registration of the relationship coincided with the anniversaries of the death of Józef Piłsudski and General Władysław Anders, which escaped the attention of the communist authorities. 35 years have passed since that event. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u595	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Catherine Chechara, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u596	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I would like to say a few sentences about the Opole debate on education called "Vocational education for the labour market." On 2 May 2016 in the modern and beautifully located building of the Municipal Centre of Sports and Recreation in Zakrzów the first Opole was held and the fifth nationwide debate on education was held. Professional education for the labour market. The debate was attended by Deputy Minister of National Education Ms Teresa Wargock, Deputy Voivode of Opole Mrs Violetta Porowska and Opole Education curator Mr Michał Siek. In addition, representatives of the Ministry of National Education, Offices of Opole Voivodeship, Curatorium of Education in Opole, Voluntary Labour Hufec, Opole parliamentarians and heads of schools, teachers, trade unions, non-governmental and educational organizations, employers, representatives of chambers of crafts and economic organizations, local government officials, parents and students of vocational schools were also involved in the debate. It is significant that representatives from outside the Opole Voivodeship participated in the debate, among others. representation of craft chambers from Kalisz and Rzeszów. The Opolskie educational debate in Zakrzów was kept up-to-date by the Opolskie media. During the debate, students of our vocational schools presented their achievements and presented a rich educational offer of their schools and their excellent work, for example. self-made 3D printer, culinary products and others. The Opole educational debate was divided into three discussion panels: The debate was very interesting. Nearly 500 people took part in the debate. Each discussion panel had its moderator, who coordinated the work of the group, kept records of conclusions and requests made by the group. The participants of the debate shared their views, reflections on their daily work with young people, pointed to the problems they face in their daily work and proposed solutions to be put in place in the future to improve the functioning of education. They also presented good solutions that already function and contribute to the smooth functioning of vocational training. Following the discussion in each panel, the moderators in the presence of all the participants in the debate took stock of the work in the groups and presented conclusions and requests resulting from the panel discussions. The main determinant of vocational training is the labour market. Adaptation of education to changes and demands in the labour market is an essential condition for the proper functioning of the economy. Therefore, the conclusions of the debate have been recorded in the minutes and forwarded to Deputy Minister Teresa Wargocka. Ladies and gentlemen! So far, many changes have been made to the education system, but there has never been a consultation or an authentic debate before. The voices of students, teachers, representatives of the labour market and local authorities have never been listened to before. It's a good change. From this point of view, I would like to express my sincere thanks for these actions, for the commitment and time devoted to all those who took part in the Opole debate in Zakrzów, and especially for the employees of the Ministry of National Education with the Minister in charge. It is this kind of activity that has a huge impact on the shape and functioning of vocational education in Poland, on the future of our young people and on the economic development of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u597	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 April we celebrated the 4th anniversary of the death of Wiesław Chrzanowski, lawyer and politician, professor of legal sciences, soldier of the National Army, Warsaw insurgent, founder and first president of the Christian-National Union, Member, Senator and Minister. During World War II he fought in the ranks of the National Military Organization, which became part of the National Army. As a soldier of Amia Krajowej he participated in the Warsaw Uprising. He was a soldier at the time of Battalion Harnas. He also worked in conspiracy organizations with national orientation, among others. in the National Party and Youth of All Poland. After the war, in 1948 and 1955, he was imprisoned by the communist authorities. In the times of the Polish People's Republic he fought for free Poland. He worked with the Primate of Poland Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński. He taught at the Catholic University of Lublin. In 1980, he became an advisor to the NSZZ.Solidarity. He was a co-author of the union charter. In 1989 Wiesław Chrzanowski was co-founder of the Christian-National Union and the first president of this party, which he had been running for 5 years. Later, he became chairman of the chief council of this group. In May 2005, he was awarded the Order of the White Eagle. In 2007, he was appointed to the Chapter of the Order. In the coming days, let us remember this wonderful man and great Pole. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u599	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michał Cieślak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u600	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Infrastructure investments are extremely important projects from the point of view of the state, society and economy, and therefore - as is the case in the Busi district, in the Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in the Nowy Korczyn commune - they cannot be carried out in violation of the safety of residents. The New Korczyn border with the bridge crossing linking Świętokrzyskie voivodship with Małopolska voivodship according to current option No.3 threatens the safety of residents and is planned and designed in violation of social, economic and administrative principles. The inhabitants of these two voivodships, especially the counties of Buski and Dąbrowski, have been waiting for many, many years for a connection between the two voivodships and the bridge crossing. The current concept, which has been presented by the local authorities, is as follows. The Nida River and the Vistula River are designed for an embankment of almost 2 km long and 11 m high. This causes the inhabitants of the area between Nida and the Vistula to be locked in the intervale and completely deprived of evacuation. This is the place most vulnerable to floods in our country. Therefore, the inhabitants propose to carry out this bypass under option 2, which has been promoted for many recent years and has been subject to a public consultation by 3 March of this year, an economically justified option, as it is less than half the proposed one. Besides, the bridge is located at the site of the former bridge that was already there. This option was consulted within the framework of the previous project and is accepted by the community and Świętokrzyskie, and Małopolska. In this situation, the bridge on Nida and the bridge on the Vistula River would connect the air artery, which is absolutely unthreatening to the inhabitants. This solution is economically justified, socially acceptable, only administrative action is lacking to implement this option. I would add that the report on the environmental impact of the project violates all principles of diligence and reliability. It is based on materials that are partly false and have factual gaps. It presents mistakes and mistakes in the location of the village. It contains concepts that show that the investment does not divide agricultural parcels - and is divided by more than 100 - does not pass through areas exposed to flooding and flooding. Ladies and gentlemen! Making and planning investments of such serious importance in violation of social principles, as this threatens the safety of the inhabitants... The option is not accepted by the residents. He shares a lot of land. Moreover, the rules of administrative procedure were infringed as the previous option, the second option, was consulted by 3 March of this year and then there was a third option, which was completely not consulted with residents. And, of course, it is economically unjustified, because when it comes to the construction of 10 km bypass and embankment with a length of almost 2 km in a situation where crossing and bypass can also be carried out in accordance with this option, it is absolutely unacceptable by society and economically unjustified. I therefore call for consideration to be given to the possibility of shifting this solution in the context of [[♪ The bell ♪]] the second option and consideration of the possibility to also carry out the concept of rail connection between Busek and Tarnow as part of the implementation of this concept and infrastructure work, which will support the district of Buski...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u601	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u602	...so important from the point of view of spa development for the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u603	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Wiesław Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u604	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is with great concern that I observe the beginnings of local governments in Małopolska and Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship on the construction of a bridge crossing on the Vistula river connecting Borusowa - Nowy Korczyn. The intention agreement on the construction of the bridge on the Wisla river was signed by the Marshals of Małopolska and Świętokrzyskie Voivodeships in 2007. This investment aims to build a new transport corridor. It will be the shortest communication link from Kielce to Tarnów. The construction of the bridge crossing in place of the existing ferry will eliminate the existing natural barrier between the areas on both sides of the Vistula. This investment will certainly also increase the attractiveness of the area and contribute to economic development. Therefore, I am looking very closely at the process of this investment and I am anxious to observe the actions of the local authorities in Małopolska and Świętokrzyskie in this respect and to ignore the opinion of the residents regarding the location of the future bridge. A few years ago, as soon as the intention agreement on the construction of this bridge was signed, the preparatory process for the above-mentioned investment was launched with the acquisition of environmental considerations. At that time, the proposed concept concerned the construction of a bridge at the place where the wooden bridge existed in 1939. At that time, it seemed that it was close to reaching consensus on setting up a new access road to the planned bridge. Unfortunately, however, it was not possible to obtain environmental decisions due to the complex protest of one of the inhabitants on the side of the Lesser Poland voivodship. Preparatory work has been discontinued. After a few years, in 2013, the development of the concept with the acquisition of environmental decisions was re-launched. This time it was proposed to build a bridge in another place. It was moved eastward from the previous location, which raised protests of even more inhabitants on one side and on the other side of the Vistula. I would like to express my disapproval and protest against the actions of local authorities of the Malopolska and Świętokrzyski provinces in preparing the investment under the name: construction of the bridge crossing on the Vistula River in Borusowa - Nowy Korczyn. Each such investment should certainly serve the wider purpose for which it is implemented, but it certainly also raises doubts and concerns about the people closest to it. Only through compromise and in the interests of the common good should public authority resolve any concerns and doubts of the inhabitants. I firmly believe that the local governments of Małopolska and Świętokrzyskie voivodships will soon implement this necessary investment with respect for the will of the inhabitants, resolve current conflicts and lead to a compromise of the location of the bridge construction along with access roads. In conclusion, I would also like to give consideration to the local governments of Małopolska and Świętokrzyskie voivodships, that, while implementing this huge investment, it is not worth to return to the idea of many years ago to build a road-rail bridge here, which would open even more a communication corridor connecting the south-eastern part of the region with the centre of the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u605	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u606	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 1 April this year The Sejm accepted the so-called. a decounization law, i.e. a law prohibiting the promotion of communism or another totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. Following the adoption of the bill by the Senate, it was sent to the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda for the purpose of signing. According to the above legal act, the names of streets, bridges or squares given by units of local government cannot in any way commemorate or promote persons, events, organizations or dates which are symbols of communism or other totalitarian system. Names referring to persons, organizations, events or dates symbolizing repressive, authoritarian and non-sovereign system of power in Poland in 1944 and 1989 are also considered to promote communism. Self-governments will be obliged to change the names commemorating communism within 12 months of the date of entry into force of the law. The decision to annul the resolution giving the name of buildings, objects or public utility objects incompatible with the new provisions will be taken by the voivode after consulting the Institute of National Remembrance. More than 25 years after systemic changes in Poland still up to 1.5 thousand. The streets may bear the names associated with communism. In the country we have streets commemorating PKWN, the streets of the 40th anniversary of the Polish Republic, the Red Army, Władysław Gomłka, the Polish Workers' Party or Karol Świerczewski. It is an affronting heritage for Poland and Poles. The need to regulate these issues should not create any political controversy. Not without reasons in the article. 13 The Constitution states that the existence of political parties and other organisations referring in their programmes to totalitarian methods and practices of Nazism, fascism and communism is prohibited, and the Penal Code in Article. 256 considers the promotion of a fascist or other totalitarian state system to be a prohibited act. Any promotion of communist symbolism is demoralizing for society. We can't accept honoring people and institutions who don't deserve it. Sometimes it can be heard that sometimes the communist street patrons are less famous underground party activists or scientists who have allowed propaganda to exploit the results of their research and work. It also happens that the names of street patrons, well known to the older generation, commemorating the times of the Polish People's Republic, tell nothing to young people. Sometimes the patrons of the streets, schools, or buildings are simply unfamiliar or unknown. If the residents have no knowledge of the patron of their streets, they should be given it to them. This is a huge distinction. However, we definitely cannot promote any names that are associated with communism and merits for the Polish People's Republic and the Polish People's Republic. We should disseminate knowledge about people deserved for the latest history of Poland, not connected with any totalitarian system. People who could be honored with the patronage of the street, the square or the building, were not lacking in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u607	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u608	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, on 2 May 2016, celebrations were held commemorating the 70th anniversary of the pacification and burning on 2 May 1946. Wąwolnica, a village in the Puławy Voivodeship of Lublin, by forces of the Security Office. The organizers of the ceremony were: the Association of the Past - Future, the commune of Wąwolica, the Regional Society of Friends of the Wąwolica and the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Kębel in Wąwolica. The celebrations were held, among others. unveiling a commemorative plaque, Holy Mass, reconstruction of events involving, among others, Reconstructive groups, concert of youth teams. The patronage of the event was taken by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda as part of the nationwide celebrations in honor of the cursed soldiers. The victims of the pacification of the Wąwice have carried out the forces of the Security Office, thus punishing the inhabitants of the village in the collective responsibility for supporting the soldiers steadfast in their fight against the new occupier. 101 houses, 106 barns, 121 barns, 120 pigsty and other buildings were burned down, often with livestock. Several people died in death, many wounded. This event for many years, for several decades, has been silenced, it has been a forbidden subject. At last, this unprecedented example of communist crime is becoming known to an increasing number of our society, not only the Lublin voivodeship, but also the whole of Poland. This knowledge needs to be further promoted. Therefore, the organizers and participants of the celebration commemorating the 70th anniversary of the burning of the Wąvolka I pay my respects to the highest recognition and respect, and to the inhabitants of Wąvolca I congratulate the inhabitants of Wąvolca for their continued life in values, fidelity to the ideals of free Poland and the 1050-year-old Christian heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u609	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u610	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We just celebrated Firefighter's Day. It is a service that is of great importance to society as a whole, both in terms of the State Fire Department and in terms of voluntary firefighters. Guess we've all seen a red car rushing on the signal, firefighters fighting a fire, fighting a flood, giving first aid, or working on a wreckage of a vehicle using specialized tools. Fire department is a service to which 94% of the population have confidence in the latest research. We all admire the firefighters for their sacrifice and courage while saving lives and property. You have to be very brave and well trained to run into a burning building and get the victims out of it or, as sometimes happens, a burning gas tank. Fire department these days is mostly professional equipment. Firefighters' uniforms are about to be changed. Let us make sure that our firefighters benefit from the highest quality solutions that allow them to save lives. We should think about buying drones for the State Fire Department to maximize the safety of firefighters and make it easier for them to fire or search. Also, let us not forget that firefighters often sacrifice their health and life by fighting the element. It's not a job. It's a service. The service is so valuable that they should be paid for their work. Why should a firefighter, even though he must have the highest level of training and knowledge, earn less than some officials or even as important policemen to society? We should consider changing this situation. Hail to the heroic firemen! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u611	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u612	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I ask the question which Poland we want. Yesterday, Mr Kornel Morawiecki answered this question. Standing in front of the white and red, standing in front of the eagle with the crown, standing in front of the cross, I say: we want Poland solidarity, Poland sustainable development, Poland which also cares about the county-dominated Poland. Here, in Parliament, on my initiative, a Parliamentary Group was set up. solving problems of the inhabitants of the Polish district and municipality, not seen from far away, from large cities, with problems of unemployment, queues to specialists, low living rate, large emigration, poorly developed infrastructure. We do not want Poland that wastes public money. Yesterday we learned about the amount of PLN 340 billion. It's a huge number. Little children say, "Infinite." If you realize that and count it as a day's loss. I'd ask you, how much is that a day? We wouldn't believe it: 116 million daily losses. We do not want Poland that wastes money. No more waste, no more selfishness, no more contempt. We want Poland in solidarity. Let's be solidarity. Let us follow the values of the great-grandfather: God, honor, homeland. Let us respect ourselves, and definitely in this country, in this Lightest Republic, it will be better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u613	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u614	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we celebrate International Nurse and Obstetrics Day. On this occasion, I would like to express my thanks and respect to all colleagues from this unique place for their daily efforts to care for the severely ill - adults and children. Nurses and midwives are the largest professional group in health care and pursue the profession of public trust. Special profession, because it requires, in addition to high qualifications, exceptional predispositions, sensitivity to suffering, skills of compassion and consolation. They are in exceptional and unique moments for every human being: in joyful moments of birth, fight against the diseases and weaknesses of the body, tedious rehabilitation, and death. Your efforts, dedication and patience in your daily work and your professional care provide patients with a sense of safety and support for both the sick and their loved ones. The daily work of a group of nurses and midwives is given universal respect and recognition. This year's slogan of the International Nurse's Day, announced by the International Nurses' Council, is: Nurses are the force behind change by increasing the flexibility and resilience of healthcare systems. This is a very important message, indicating the important role of your professional environments in implementing actions to improve the functioning of the health system. It's a special holiday for all nurses and midwives. Especially for me too, nurses. As the poet wrote: The nurse - this is an admirable figure. A nurse replacing a doctor once, once God. Only one who suffers in sickness knows the importance of a warm word, a caring and reliable presence. Only you know how to combine expertise and skills with warmth and support. On the occasion of International Nurse and Obstetrics Day, I would like to convey to all nurses and midwives the wish of joy and fulfilment in personal life, while at work the satisfaction of the professional mission carried out, recognition from superiors, good relations with co-workers and common achievement of the objectives set. These wishes are especially addressed to all nurses and midwives employed in the Independent Public Health Care Institute in Brzesk. I'm doing this from this particular place, from the Sejm, for the first time, because I've always been with you on this day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u615	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u616	Music is the condensate of the best, most valuable emotions. The most famous, writing about music, climbed to the heights of fantasy. They wrote that it reveals the most secret thoughts that Earth, and is a reflection of the heavenly realms, that it is a bath of the soul. It is amazing how much attention her mathematicians paid, such as Pythagoras, who argued that music aroused a desire for good deeds in the heart. It is the State School of Music of the first and second degree. Stanisław Moniuszko in Jelenia Góra proves that extraordinary people gather around the music - with great enthusiasm, able to overcome all difficulties, as if music were adding wings to them. 70 years of the Jelenia Góra music school is a time of great work and great success, it is a time of creating and developing artistic education in Western lands. From the very beginning, music teachers set a high standard of requirements for themselves and their students, wanting to be better every day than yesterday. Today, the State School of Music. Stanisława Moniuszka in Jelenia Góra is a glory not only of Jelenia Góra, but also shines a great shine on the map of music schools in Poland. Without music school, there would probably be no Dolnośląskie Philharmonic in Jelenia Góra. Both these musical phenomena - the school and the philharmonic - are connected not only with history, but also with the special harmony of two beings, which together are three times stronger than they would be individually. Today it is difficult to mention the names of musicians and teachers who are the most important to the school. Out of almost 2,000. graduates and 150 educators cannot choose those who are worth distinguishing over others, because there are so many of them and they are so wonderful. Almost every one of them added a brick for the construction of the brand, which is today the State School of Music. Stanisław Moniuszko in Jelenia Góra. Graduate concerts on all continents, in the most prestigious places in the world, are the best tribute for music and school and satisfaction for teachers. Their music is - as the poet used to say - just the sky with notes instead of the stars.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u617	Ladies and gentlemen! Today I wanted to briefly tell you about the Gombrowicz International Festival, who has been visiting my hometown for years. Since 1993 General Theatre im. Jan Kochanowski is the organizer of the Gombrowiczowski International Festival. The festival was initiated by Wojciech Kępczyński, director of the theatre. I will mention that this is one of the most important Polish theatre festivals. The event combines theatre, science, music and widely understood art. In the early editions, Rita Gombrowicz, widow of the deceased writer, took the patronage over her. The idea of the organizers was to create an international, multicultural forum for the exchange of thoughts, experiences, interpretations and rewording of Gombrowicz's problem, the problem of reading and reading his works. The event is very popular with the audience as well as critics. The jury composed of critics, directors and theatre theaterists evaluates numerous performances. The surroundings of Radom are the family sides of the writer, hence the choice of the city of Radom to replace the festival, which takes place regularly every 2 years. Witold Gombrowicz was born in the palace in Podradomska Vsola, where the Witold Gombrowicz Museum is located today. This is where the first literary ideas were born. As a result, the writer's work contains a number of references to towns near Radom. This year the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is to transfer 150 thousand. PLN of co-financing for the 12th edition of the International Gombrowicz Festival.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u618	Declaration by the Parliament on territorial cohesion of the West Pomeranian Voivodship Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, various concepts of creating on the basis of the existing Koszalin, Pilski and Polski voivodships, the new self-government Koszalin or Central Pomeranian voivodeship, have appeared in public space. This meets the opposition of the local community, expressed among others. in the resolutions of the Sejmik Voivodship Zachodniopomorskie, the councils of the municipalities and powiats of the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodeship calling for the rulers to maintain the territorial cohesion of the voivodship and thus the foundations of the self-government reform of 1998, the main assumption of which was the creation of strong and financially independent regions. Separation from existing voivodships of lands to a large extent structurally weak and the creation of Koszalin or Central Pomeranian voivodship based on them would not only lead to the establishment of a self-government unit which would be unable to conduct independent development policy, but would also weaken the potential of other voivodships. There were no new arguments for returning to the disqualified concept of additional voivodship in 1998. This initiative is anachronistic and harmful not only for the regions of northern Poland, but also for the whole country facing the challenge of rational and efficient use of funds from the budgetary perspective of the European Union for the 2014-2020 period. It is also of great importance that the creation of a new voivodship would entail a significant change in the system of implementation of European funds in Poland. All strategic and implementation decisions of the European Union's regional policy and the objectives and scope of the intervention of the European funds for the 2014-2020 period relate to the current administrative structure of the country. It would take at least a few years to adopt and negotiate the relevant programming documents, such as the revised partnership agreement, territorial contract and regional operational programme for the new voivodship. It should be recalled that the regional government is based on the community of its inhabitants. Since the creation of Western Pomerania, systematic actions have been undertaken to ensure spatial and economic and social cohesion of Western Pomerania. National regional policy should continue to be based consistently on regions with adequate development potential. Further strengthening the role of regions in developing development policies is part of the current debate on the future of European Union regional policy, the principle of subsidiarity promoted since the beginning of the European Union, the principle that every level of authority should only carry out those tasks which cannot be effectively carried out by the lower level or by the individuals themselves operating within society. This is also consistent with global trends that confirm that only strong regions based on strong intra-regional centres are able to effectively overcome development barriers and inspire growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Year by year the population of beavers grows uncontrollably in Poland. These animals are getting bolder and bolder in the land and are destroying agricultural production. The dams created by beavers on rivers and watercourses cause water to be poured into crops and disrupt local drainage systems. This phenomenon is mostly affected by the region of the voivodships: Warmia-Mazurskie, Podlaskie, Lublin and Podkarpackie, but it occurs practically throughout the country. The owners of ponds, farms and gardens are helpless. Regional environmental directorates, hunting circles, agricultural chambers and local authorities are also powerless to deal with this problem. Resettlement of bobrzy families is an operation so expensive that it is performed only in isolated cases. A number of reservations are also raised by the system for estimating damages and the amount of compensation charged. Today in the Seym we started work on amending the Law on Hunting Law, and I hope it will be a step in the right direction that will settle issues related to compensation for damage caused by wild game. However, the problem of a rapidly growing population of certain animal species, especially beavers, remains to be addressed. The current Hunting Law and the Law on Nature Conservation and Animal Protection do not fulfil their function of limiting the extent of damage to agricultural crops. This problem was dealt with, among others. Lithuania, where beavers are protected only in national parks. High Izbo! If we do not take action to halt the continuous growth of the beaver population, this problem will grow very rapidly and result in further multi-million losses to farmers and the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-05-12-sejm-18-2.u620	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 13 May 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 19]]
