ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft act on public collective transport and considering it as item fourteen of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any objection, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union. I would like to welcome the invited guests: representatives of the Polish Earth Society and Senator I, II, III, IV and VI of the term of office, Mr Piotr Łukasz Juliusz Andrzejewski. Welcome very much. [[Applause]] Welcome very cordially to Mr Stanisław Załuski, the president of the honorary Polish Earth Society, Marcin Schirmer, Mrs Julia Schirmer, Mrs Danuta Prus-Głowacka, Mr Stanisław Ziemecki, Mr Andrzej Kościanowski, Mr Tomasz Gołaski. I would like to welcome you all very warmly. If I haven't mentioned someone, I'd like to welcome you very much. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 197 and the report is published in print No. 197 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great pleasure to present to you a draft resolution that honors a wonderful organization: the Union of Earthlings. It so happens that it was created in July 1916. So we celebrate the 100th anniversary of this Earthling Union, a union which is today also represented by the Polish Earth Society, which this Polish Earth Society feels And you're right. A continuation of the tradition of this union. The 100th anniversary is undoubtedly a good excuse to adopt a resolution honoring Polish landowners. Families, which have so much included themselves in the history of Poland, especially the 19th and 20th centuries, are going on with blood, dedication, but also creative work, both work to modernise the Polish economy and great work to create Polish culture. All of this, of course, is included in the history of Polish landscaping, as well as in the draft resolution, which I will read in a moment. But before I do, I have two more sentences to say right now. Namely, the resolution is not only historical, but in my view, as a historian and senator, it is a priority. One should be a layer of land, so strongly marked in Polish history that finally the Senate of the Republic of Poland He appealed to free and independent people, namely the families of the landowners. There is also, of course, the contemporary context of this resolution, which you will read about in the last paragraphs. Regardless of how difficult it is to say this in the parliament of the free and sovereign Republic, which is constitutionally supported on a set of the most important values that form our community, the fact is that among the countries that were once affected by communism, we are today the only country in which the reprivatization bill has not been carried out. And undoubtedly this context of today's event, i.e. the adoption of the Senate's resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union, should also be defined. Now, if the marshal will allow me, I will read the resolution with a great request to the senators to hear. And I'm going to say that in the committee where we used to categorize the same text, just like it happens. We have always enriched each other with our knowledge of the history of the landowners and of the landowners, we, that is, the Senators of Law and Justice and the Senators of the Civic Platform, for which I thank you very warmly now, because the contribution of both formations to the content of this resolution is very large. Now I'm reading. On the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Association of Earthmen, the Senate of the Republic of Poland honors the founders of this organization and the Polish landowners of modern Polish agriculture and participants of the national battle for freedom and independence in the 19th and 20th centuries. I'm really sorry, I'm gonna check if I'm sure I have the right print, but fortunately the first paragraph remains almost unchanged. Maybe again, from the beginning. On the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Association of the Landowners of the Republic of Poland, the Senate honors the founders of this organization and the landowners of national fights for freedom and independence of Poland in the 19th and 20th centuries, creators of modern agriculture. The association of Earthlings, an organization of landowners, was founded on 5 July 1916. It was founded on the basis of agricultural associations of the land of Poland. In the initial period of existence, he actively joined efforts to regain independence by Poland after 123 years of partitions, to help victims of war and ruined partitions and war of estates. Earthlings also had a significant part in the creation of the Polish state apparatus and performed a number of important functions in national and foreign service. After Poland regained its independence, the Earth's Union was the engine of economic progress and the development of modern agriculture and the promotion of organic work. The basic objective of the organization was to respect the principles of Christian ethics in family, social and economic life. The involvement of the landowners in the political, economic and social life of Poland resulted from the general belief that possession of the land means submission of their interests to the good of the nation, willingness to serve in defence of the country and special social responsibilities. The union took care of patriotic education and education of children and young people not only from the families of the land, but also from rural and poorer environments. Its members were involved in philanthropic activities and were patrons of science, culture and art, taking care of the centuries-old cultural heritage of Poland. The activities of the Earth Union were brutally interrupted by the outbreak of World War II and the death of many of its members. The association was involved in the process of building the Polish Underground State: the manor houses helped mainly ZWZ-AK, but also other military formations. The grounders set up a paramilitary organization that laid down by self-taxation. funds for underground combat and the preparation and delivery of underground aid, food supply, hospital management, sanitation, communications, hiding refugees, including many Jews. As part of the Polish elites, humanity was subjected to brutal repression by both German and communist occupation authorities. The Germans murdered or expelled the property owners on the lands incorporated into the Reich. After the war under communist decrees, land estates were seized without compensation, and their owners were brutally removed from their homes, losing their workshops, the source of family support and the achievements of many generations. Despite their disinheritance and persecution, the landowners joined the reconstruction of a ruined country and ruined agriculture, guided by the Polish state rhyme. We find their biographies among the co-founders of Independent Poland, steadfast emigrants and Cursed Soldiers. Today's actions of the Grounders Association continue the Polish Earth Society, being its ideal and moral heir. The Polish Earth Society awaits the adoption of a reprivatization bill and compensation for the damage suffered in communist times. The Senate of the Republic of Poland, in recognition of Poland's contribution to the struggle for the preservation and creation of independent Poland and recognition of its merits for the economic development and preservation of the country's cultural heritage, this resolution wishes to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Earth Union as the most important organization of the landowner's 20th century, and the importance and achievements of the Polish landownership to restore the historical memory of the Nation. The resolution was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you so much for listening. And I hope that I can already thank you also for accepting this draft resolution, since it has been crucified since the beginning in such a concerted atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and at the same time an authorised representative of the applicants. May I remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Jan Żaryn to represent them. Any of you... Marshal Borusewicz wants to ask you a question, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u4	Senator rapporteur, would you tell me whether the present Polish Earth Society is applying for any restitution or is going to apply for restitution after its resolution, predecessor?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u5	Mr. Marshal, thank you, of course, for the question, because it is very important. Without a doubt, because the Polish Earth Society has been seeking restitution of landowner property for families, including heirs, since the beginning of its activity in the territory of the Third Republic. It is undoubtedly one of the most important points of the program and the meaning of the operation of the Polish Earth Society, although as far as I know Of course, the authorities The PTZ are here, and they can say it more comprehensively. This is certainly not the only circumstance for which the Polish Earth Society was founded. On the one hand, it is about the memory of the past, about the culture of the landowners, the achievements of the landowners, the memory of total injustice, that is, the possession of property by German invaders and communists. That's the obvious part. On the other hand, it is also a matter of getting involved in various processes connected with modernization of the Polish economy and from this perspective, just modernization of the Polish economy after regaining independence, recognition that the return of property and compensation are part of the healing of the Polish society and the Polish national economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, stay because you're still Senator Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Because you mentioned reprivatization in your statement. Can you tell me if you think there's a chance to solve this problem, which, as you know, has not been solved in Poland as the only country of the former block... [[In Germany...]] ...or almost the only country of the old... [[The only one.]] [[No, in Germany, too.]] And is Poland really the only such country? Because I hear there's a dispute about it. So that I would ask you to explain this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u8	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u9	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! To my knowledge, we are the only country in which there is no reprivatization bill. And she's not here. I'm trying to keep things to a minimum. Because of one person who no longer plays the political role that she once played. This person is President Alexander Kwasniewski. He vetoed as President of the Republic prepared by the AWS coalition The Freedom Union and the Government of Jerzy Buzek passed the entire legislative act. And in what I said, there is also an answer. It seems that today's political scene, both on the government side and on the opposition side, is a long time ago, at least in part, the AWS-UW coalition. Therefore, the answer to the question whether a reprivatisation law is possible is: yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u10	Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u11	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I would like to clarify the question of Mr. Marshal Borusewicz a little bit, and I would like to ask you simply: does the Polish Earth Society question the agricultural reform of 1944? Thank you. [[It's been a long time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u12	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I hope so. I, too, as a historian, question agricultural reform. It was a reform that was imposed by foreign power. Although it was legalized by international agreements, on 6 September 1944 PKWN ruled in Poland not legally, but was an occupation authority. And the Polish government was in exile. Therefore, the reform itself adopted at that time was, from the point of view of the subjectivity of the Polish people, a de facto illegal act, regardless of the fact that it was later legalized. But as you know very well, not only the PKWN act itself, dictated by Poles, was incompatible with the standards of free nations. It was not in line with these standards primarily because it was supported by the forces of the NKVD, the Security Office, the Civic Militia, which threw landowners out of their property, not only by virtue of that decree, but also by Stalin and Bieruta's decision, especially after the October meeting of 1944. And also in the next meetings, this theme and this discussion were being held by these gentlemen. This discussion was repeated by Stalin because the Communists could not easily implement the reform mentioned here, inter alia due to resistance from the Polish village. Because the Polish village also did not recognize the PKWN regardless of whether it carried the transfer of land or not. This power was treated as not ours. And if it had not been for the structure of the NKVD, later supporting the Security Office and the Civic Militia, this so-called reform would not have been successful. And if you would like some facts, I can mention among others the most famous arrest, i.e. the arrest of the family of the Polish aristocracy located in Nieborów. Its members were arrested by the NKVD in 1945 and deported to remote Siberia. This is the agricultural reform of PKWN.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u13	Senator Rulewski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. If Marshal Borowski can expand the questions that another Marshal asked, then it's time for the senator to extend the question, too, if you agree. [[There you go, Mr. Senator.]] What was the relationship between the Earth Union and the agricultural reform announced before the Communists by the Council of National Unity? That's the first question. But the second question is more important. Can you provide information on how the Earth's Union participated in independence changes in Poland after 1989?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u15	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, first I will answer the first question, very interesting. Indeed, the Council of National Unity, or Parliament of Poland, was the civil authority of the Polish government, which prepared a set of reforms concerning post-war time. I do not want to do a comprehensive historical lecture here, but I will mention only that, without a doubt, under the influence of the Second War experience, the Parliament of Poland Underground was very sensitive to the issues of social justice. I mean, it's definitely the experience of two totalitarianisms and the experience of pauperization that the National Unity Council, in 1944, formulated this program for the future independent ♪ As it seemed ♪ Poland has also included a postulate for agricultural reform. It is necessary to be fully aware that it was an organ of a sovereign nation, and therefore had the right to do so, and that none of the Polish independents, from the right to the left, participating in the deliberations of the Council of National Unity, denied that agricultural reform should be deeper than that which was carried out in the times of the Second Republic. But, as with the programming documents, not the documents that were written into the paragraphs and articles... There is no doubt, in my opinion, that the vast majority of the Council of National Unity was mentally attached to the Polish March Constitution of 1921, and therefore considered respect for private property to be a sine qua non condition in the case of any reforms, including agricultural reform. And surely, if agricultural reform were to be implemented on the basis of the resolutions of the National Unity Council, this request for respect for property rights would undoubtedly be fulfilled. I think that I direct these words to the authorities of the Polish Earth Society Senator Rulewski's statement provided a hint on the important foundation of his efforts or perhaps one of the foundations of his efforts to make amends for the families of the landowners, because indeed the decisions of the Polish Underground State, like the Polish government in exile, can and should bind the Polish people in 2016. [[Second question.]] And the senator's second question is much harder for me, and I have a proposal that we may possibly ask the president of the Polish Earth Society, Mr. Martin Schirmera... [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] [[This is not a debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u16	No, Mr. Senator, we're not expanding the discussion. I don't agree to that. [[But I'm just suggesting...]] But I don't agree. [[Okay, I'm quitting...]] I'm sorry, but there's no formula. [[Okay, I'm sorry, I offered, and you're a marshal according to your competence...]] We could have a discussion by tonight, but I don't agree to that. [[Voices from the hall: Professors can discuss in the roundabouts.]] [[Good. The Polish Earth Society is a much more appropriate recipient of this question than I am. I don't feel like a press spokesperson for PTZ.]] Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to start my question by quoting the words of Wincent Lutosławski, an interesting and colorful figure. I quote: higher birth entails above all greater responsibilities, and not just privileges. I would like to ask whether we can treat purely historically such a belief that there is a division into higher birth and some other, or whether this belief is still cultivated by the earthly society. I ask you to answer this question as a democrat and a supporter of the equality of citizens of a democratic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u18	Thank you, Senator. I'll tell you right away that quote didn't fit. As I'm sure you've heard. In this text of the resolution. I would very much like to answer with this question, because the quote is true and the character of Wincent Lutosławski is true. Undoubtedly, in the tradition of Polish landscaping there are strong relationships, also supported by knowledge of genealogy, between lands and the Polish nobility, which ruled the Polish Commonwealth, a state which has been democratically managed for centuries, and undoubtedly this heritage is inscribed in the achievements of Polish landscaping. The Polish Landhood of the 19th and 20th centuries was a layer which, due to the fact that its main determinant was possession of the land, became a layer, one can say, internally very diverse and democratic, if you want to use this word as a democrat. Democratic in the sense that very many families entered the layer of the landownership, which did not originate from the Polish nobility, which originated either from the Polish bourgeoisie, or e.g. from the township of German origin or Jewish origin. This great Polish culture carried by nobles and landscaping became very attractive because it was part of a very important part of Polish culture, thanks to which we became a modern nation at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries. And this, to some extent, can be said, is also a great merit of this layer, that it was willing to absorb these alien currents, which at that moment became no longer foreign, but just building the Polish community. [[But this point was, as I understand it, deleted, right? Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... [[Thank you. I'm quitting.]] Does anyone else want to ask a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Great Dear Guests! I am very pleased that I had the privilege of being one of the signatories to the draft of this resolution, which in some moral sense admits a certain historical truth in relation to the environment that played in history. Poland is a very important role. I will remind you that the issue of agricultural reform and what happened to this social layer in communist times... But speaking of the losses of Polish landscaping, we should also remember those landowners living in the territory who did not find themselves in Poland after the Second World War. A part of the land was traumatized. It is similar to the one survived by the Polish landowners after 1944. Before that, because in the time of the Bolshevik Revolution, I mean part of the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania and especially 3 provinces: Volynsk, Podolska and Kiev. Those were tens of thousands of families and tens of thousands of dramatic fates. And I am glad that in the third Polish Republic the proper attitude towards the landownership is restored. The idea is not to idealize some social layer, but to restore its proper rank and role in historical research, a role that is beyond appreciation in the history of Poland. I'd like to appeal to two figures from my constituency. First, to Tomasz Klonowski, a landowner who was a social worker in Sokołówk near Ciechanów. At the beginning of the 20th century, he founded an agricultural school, which allowed a lot of young people to deepen their knowledge of agriculture, so that she could learn at that school through a scholarship system. In this way, agricultural culture was raised. I will also remind you that Tomasz Klonowski saved his estate and property in connection with this school after his death, so that this school would survive And she survived long after his death. And I would like to remind you of the second figure, like from the top layer of the Earth, the aristocrat, Louis Adam the Count of Krasiński, second-degree cousin of Zygmunt Krasiński, a great haunt and poet. As you know, the Krasiński family originated in Krasny, that is today's Przasny district in northern Mazowsze. He was a great visionary and businessman. He built the estate on a European scale, where farmers from all over Europe came to him. Krasne's estate, where to this day there is a famous stud, a manor that was industrialized. He built a sugar factory, a distillery, he had a very wide social program, he built shelters, schools, a hospital. He was a man with a vision. He was also an industrialist. I was a man who simply brought into Polish culture and into economic life a lot of fresh thoughts and contributed to the development of the country. Notabene married the widow of Zygmunt Krasiński, with Branicka. They were cousins, and that's what happened. High Izbo, it is important to remember that in the homes of the landowners the memory of history took a special place. Ancestors, a broadly understood family consisting not only of close relatives, but also further and related relatives, as well as knowledge of the history of their homeland was the key to their own identity and lifestyle. It's worth quoting an extraordinary person here. Irena from Michałów's Stecka, who lived in the years 1931-2007, was an artist and published a very interesting book about the fate of her family. She wrote about her home in a universal way. It was a special atmosphere, something you can't see today. I think it's as hard to imagine for someone who didn't participate in this as life on another planet. In the former manor houses, usually very spatial, there were many other people living outside the country of the house. They were relatives, acquaintances, long-time residents, children's teacher and all the staff employed in housework. All these people created together a climate of home, where traditions were carefully preserved and rules were passed down from generation to generation. They created a specific life model in which maintaining a decent citizenship was one of the most important things. These houses were also real centres of knowledge and culture, they had rich libraries and often rich collections of true masterpieces of art. I would like to point out that this involvement of landowners in the development of culture and art, in economic life and, above all, in political and social life in the environments in which they lived and acted, was of fundamental importance especially in the 2nd partitions in the second half of the 19th century. I am thinking here about the Prussian partition, later German, where the fight for Polishness was particularly important, and above all about the Russian partition, where special laws were applied against Poles, against Polish land property, in order to deprive Poles of this property. Because the Tsar power was well aware that the court was a stronghold of Polishness and resistance against the possessor. So that the participation of the landowners could be traced to the biographies of the insubordinate generations, about which Bogdan Cywiński wrote in his excellent book, and most of his heroes had some connection with the earth's layer, with them coming from different traditions, because also socialist and national, and Christian-democratic, and conservative, shows in a perfect and universal way that the earth's layer had a huge influence on shaping the history of Poland for the past few hundred years. That is why I am so happy to adopt this resolution. I'm glad we're gonna make it today. I also hope that the issue of reprivatisation, which was mentioned and in the resolution, and in the discussion whether in the questions addressed to Senator Zarin, will also find his lucky epilogue. Because it does not only concern landowners and land estates, but it also concerns the property of millions of Poles or heirs of millions of Poles who lost their property as a result of Communists' actions. Those heirs have no chance of getting it back to this day, or I would like to stress: either To obtain at least moral and partial material compensation for lost property. So I am very pleased that this resolution is being taken by us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you're Professor Jan Żaryn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try to talk less. I'm not gonna take 10 minutes because I've already spoken in part. I would like to remind you two things or tell you about them. First of all, people. Earthlings are specific biographies. Senator Jackowski just summoned some names. I would like to remind you of others whose names in your hearts and minds exist. We do not always know that these are Polish landowners, because in Polish textbooks they generally do not appear in this role, and their origins, their educational path are not fully recruited. Let's start with, I'd say, a big bang. The Polish landowner is captain Witold Pilecki. Rotmaster Witold Pilecki was a wonderful Polish patriot, he was already in his youth a man fighting for the recovery of reborn Poland Included, among others. to the Major's branch, and later, during World War II, Colonel Jerzy Dąbrowski, nicknamed "Łupaszka." It was the first Szendzielarczyk to take over the nickname after him. Jerzy Dąbrowski, a landowner from Vilnius, in 1919. Pilecki, as well as many others, gathered on a kind of nobility-lander trip. This cavalry fought against the Bolsheviks in the years 1919 and 1920, submitted to the command of the Polish Army in 1920 and was later part of the Polish armed formation. Witold Pilecki, as it turned out, when the Rzeczpospolita came, was able to take off these spurs and become a wonderful Polish landowner, who was well-managed, and his wife taught Polish children, but not only Polish, on the Kresach. The border community there was, as we know, an ethnic-religious-national mosaic. A second example of a person... I understand Pilecki's life story is well known for the times of World War II and the time of war. So please forgive me for not reminding me of this resume. A Second Person Worth Recalling I'm sure we'll be talking about her soon. It is Tadeusz Bór-Komorowski, the one who first headed the Kraków National Army, along with many others, and also the landowners, who co-founded the organization of It is worth recalling the very beautiful silhouettes of the founders and creators of the Grounders' Union in the Second Republic and those whom we most often recall as creators of Stanisław Tarnowski, Leon Krzecunowicz, two beautiful silhouettes. The character of Leon Krzekunowicz may be even more worthy of reminder than the President of the Grounder Union. Like many other landowners, a great cavalryman. Earthlings won at various hype competitions, various kinds of championships. This is also a contribution to Polish sport. Tennis, but also horseback riding... Finally, I would like to mention a name, a family, maybe special because of the fact that in it there is a whole great history not only of the landownership, but also of the Polish family of the Kleniewski, Jana and Maria Kleniewski. While Jan Kleniewski, as a landlord of magnificent estates, including his estate in Dratów in the Puławy district, was earning a living, that is to say, modernising these estates and supporting his neighbors very strongly, his wife spent this property. Maria Kleniewska was from organizing philanthropic actions, creating wonderful works for the rural population. She was a great Polish socialist, a wonderful woman who raised children, grandchildren. One of these grandkids is a character especially close to me. Jerzy Olgierd Iłłakowicz. The whole family of Ilakowicz... In the files of the Institute of National Remembrance, when I was gathering information about various families of the land, including, among others, the family of the Iłłakowicz family... This is a great history of repression against the families of the landowners, which can be traced back to the example of the Iłłakowicz family: both the oldest generation and the youngest, until the grandchildren who grew up in the 1980s. Everyone was being chased by the security service. Of course not only because they were landowners, but also because they were Polish patriots, Cursed Soldiers, independence activists. They acted both in the country and in emigration, trying to fight for independent Poland. Why was this so that there were so many national heroes in the earth's layer? Because... if we closed our eyes and entered the Polish court at the turn of the 19th and 20th century, we would discover a great Polish history there. All battles of Polish wonderful representatives of Husaria, Polish army from the 17th, 18th century. We would not see pictures, but images of wonderful representatives of particular families of the land who took part in subsequent battles. The young landowner, who was raised on the basis of such achievements, undoubtedly had the burden of Polish patriotism on his shoulders. Only it wasn't a burden, it was a privilege. It's decorum, hunting offices, libraries with beautiful books, everything that created this educational lifestyle very important for every representative of the Earth family. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, has been brutally destroyed by two totalitarianisms just so that free, independent Poland never arises. The Earth's layer, such as the clergy or other states of Polish intelligence, was a huge threat to German and Soviet invaders. Adolf Bniński, a delegate of the Polish government to the territory of Wielkopolska, or the occupied Warta country, was arrested and murdered on the one hand as a wonderful representative of the landline and on the other hand as a representative of the most important underground organizational structure. All this tells us that it is high time that, as the Senate today, we could give Polish society such an impulse to remember and base our national identity on this heritage as well. I do not claim that only on this heritage, but also on this heritage, which was not hidden somewhere in the niche, but was also destroyed in our nation as a Polish mentality. I am very pleased that this resolution will be adopted, and I am very pleased with this; I hope that this will help in future work on a possible reprivatization law. And for all of this to happen, we need to come to a common conclusion today as the Senate. We're all Poles. That we are obliged to maintain the national heritage in its wealth, and that the national heritage in its wealth will not be without the land heritage alive in our mentality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution creates mixed feelings in me because of the class or layer approach, i.e. If someone was a member of some social group... Or else: that being a member of a social group determined someone's patriotism and behaviour as if they were whole. That's not what happened. I will remind you that most of the guerrilla troops in World War II and after the war were peasants More than 60%. There was even a peasant organization, the Boys' Battalions, subordinate to one of the political parties, it was such a peasant army. But that doesn't mean that this layer behaved uniformly, equally. I am against idealization, and I am also against transferring research, Mr. Senator Żaryn, or colluding, Mr. Senator Jackowski, to politics. As a researcher, you can, of course, question agricultural reform and offer to withdraw it. But if you speak of this speaker as a representative, as a member of the Law and Justice, of the ruling party, then you must be aware of the importance of your words. You must also be aware that, regardless of any objections raised regarding the rule of law of that time and the legitimacy of that authority, if you question the rule of law of concrete actions, even if agricultural reforms, you also question, for example, the rule of law. the question of boundaries, because it was that authority, PKWN, etc., that signed agreements that we do not question. It must be realized that the role of historian is different, and the role of politics is different. But I don't want to lecture you, I'm just talking about the consequences of this resolution. You have made it clear with regard to agricultural reform that it must be withdrawn, that it was illegal. You can agree with that. But what does that mean? That doesn't just mean compensation. I think some things, some decisions can't be undone. We can't go backwards. also a decree on German property abandoned Although this decree also concerned parts of Polish estates, Polish citizens Because touching this decree means opening German claims. And that was a decree issued by that authority. I pay attention to these consequences. I would like to point out that the Senate must also be aware that it is a political body and that these consequences can be induced by others in deciding on such declarations. I also want to say that there is one sentence here that is absolutely... that should be removed. This is the sentence in which it says that the modern Polish Earth Society continues to operate the Earthling Union, although in a limited way ideologically and morally. For the first time in a resolution of this kind, I meet with this formulation. It is a formulation that allows to support property claims of the present Polish Earth Society. I don't know if there's a claim or a claim, but it's clear to me. Since we write down that the present Polish Earth Society is a continuation of the Earthling Union, which no longer exists, this means that we support any property claims. I therefore make an amendment to remove this sentence so that there is no doubt and that we are not bound to a possible property claim in relation, probably, to the Treasury. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Major. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Unlike my previous speaker, I am very happy to welcome the draft resolution because the role of the Earth Society It doesn't come down, Dear State, only to the last 100 years after regaining independence. Dear Lords, when we talk about the role of landowners as elites, we are really talking about how the Polish state was shaped in the early 20th century. It was thanks to this social layer that the nation developed despite the period of captivity. Dear people, in the 19th century, the landowners placed great emphasis on the social, economic and cultural development of the country. My previous speakers spoke about cultural development, so I will talk about the social aspect. Ladies and gentlemen, the manor houses and palaces were the places where the aid was provided, where hospitals were established, shelters where elementary education was developing. Dear country, in terms of the contribution of landowners to economic development, the landowners formed the foundations of modern Polish agriculture. The Główna Szkoła Gospodarstwa Wielandskiego School is, Dear State, an institute which was created by Polish landowners. Dear people, speaking of culture, we are talking about the elite. In the 19th century and at the beginning of the 20th century, the landowners were the elite of the Polish state. Elite's always got it in her head that it's not very large. Of course, Marshal Borusewicz is right to say that peasants and representatives of other classes fought for independence. Yeah, that's right. However, this intelligent layer, the Earth's layer had the skills and properties that allowed for the management of these branches, often with great success. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention one more element. I'd like to tell you what's left of Earthlings. There were monuments of material culture, parks, palaces, manor houses Unfortunately, it is often in a very sad state. And unfortunately, over the last few years, we haven't been able to handle it. It's in line with the words about the reprivatization that fell in this room. In the 1990s some of the manor houses, palaces, or rather That's what I'd say. The ruins of these objects were passed on to the descendants of the landowners, sometimes sold as symbolic gold. Except, Dear Lords, if the ruined manor of the family that ruled it itself, without economic background, there was no expenditure on its renovation and there was no way out of this situation to do anything. And we have a situation in the country right now, my dears, that there are hundreds of mansions, palaces, in ruins. Actually, this is the last time we can do something about it. Reprivatization projects are usually very broad, but I am talking about monuments of material culture. If they are to return to previous owners, they should return with adequate support, in such a way that there is financial resources for their renovation and restoration... Dear country, such assets are many. In my district near Częstochowa the palace in Kruszyn, once the Lubomirski residence, is a little further away, Dear State, the estate in Żytno, which was last owned by Jacek Siemieński, Member of the Polish Parliament, President of the Association mentioned in the resolution of the crop. These assets are destroying, ladies and gentlemen, and if today we do not take really effective and very consistent action to preserve the last monuments of the landowner's material culture, what will we leave for future generations? What will remain of this wealth and of this accomplishment, apart from the written word, except the portrait? There's not gonna be much left. This is the last moment to save the manor houses and palaces that fall into ruins every day. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Once again, please take the floor of Senator Jan Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, thank you very much for your vote, Senator. Senator Majer has just said what has to be said today. This is a testimony of our time. The Third Republic can certainly boast many achievements and we are all proud of them. However, if we look at a map of Polish manor houses, palaces, various monuments of land culture, as well as chapels which are part of this culture, it will turn out that in the years III of the Republic of Poland was turned into ruins of at least as many Polish monuments as the Nazis and Soviet communists destroyed. And this is the legacy of the III Polish Republic without a reprivatization bill. We must also be aware that we are responsible for this regardless of what political option we are. And now I'd like to give a brief answer to Marshal Borusewicz. First of all, I did not say that the decrees of PKWN should be revoked. If I could say it, I'd love to. He did, but this is not 1945, and I am not the President of the United States, I am not the Prime Minister of Great Britain, I am not the leader of France, Italy, and it was all these countries who raped Poland and Poles at the time when, at the turn of June and July, at the beginning of July 1945, the Interim Government of National Unity, was recognised by the Yalta Agreement, which was not done by the Soviets, as an act which absolved the Anglosas from their promises to regain independence by Poland. However, I have said and clearly can say as a politician, and as a historian, that all the legal acts that the Anglo-Saxons registered in 1944 and 1945, i.e. at a time when the legal government, also on an international scale, was the Polish government on exile and the Polish Underground State, were illegal acts. It was the PKWN that signed agreements with Stalin and Stalin from PKWN, and Stalin and PKWN were synonyms. It was not a Polish rule of law or any representative of the Polish nation. In this context, these acts were undoubtedly illegal. I am sending you to very interesting discussions on the rule of law of the PKWN decrees, because this is not only about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen...]] I know. My five minutes are almost up. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] On this occasion I just want to mention that among Polish lawyers there has been a very interesting discussion about this period of PKWN and to what extent these decrees... This is not only the case for agricultural reform, for example. Decree of August, a very important decree concerning, inter alia, accused of collaborating with Germany, even being an officer of the Third Reich or collaborator with the Third Reich, a decree on state protection of October 1944 or those decrees made by your Marshal concerning the exchange of population from Kresów on the basis of agreements between PKWN and the border Soviet republics, i.e. Belarus and Ukraine. Lawyers have a serious dilemma as to how to solve the problem of the rule of law of those decrees that arose at a time when the power that created them was not the rule of law, because it was not bound by international law either. But let's leave it on the side. I did not say to withdraw the decree on agricultural reform, I said that this decree was created under conditions of lawlessness, and it was carried out even more irregularly, because it was based on strength and not on the law established. The last point is that, of course, I am asking you very much to vote on this resolution without amendments and to vote on this resolution at this meeting, because it is now the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Union of Earthlings. It would be an appropriate circumstance for us to complete the process of adopting this project today. This is, of course, a formal conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u29	Yeah, I get it. I accept that motion. Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Professor Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must say that I am amazed by the words that the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, just said here. This is unbelievable at all. I think that the senators of the independent Republic of Poland, listening to such words, should protest. Because talking about the rule of law of PKWN, and that's what brought up those sentences and agricultural reform, and bordering... After all, during that time there were numerous arrests, repressions, victims, thousands of people lost their lives. I'm already overlooking what Senator Żaryn was talking about, that this recognition took place only in July 1945. But what does recognition mean? After all, this authority had no legitimacy to name itself the power of the Polish state. It was just a Soviet occupation, and the power came on tanks. We also make resolutions on various aspects of this topic. After all, on the one hand, there was a constitution at the time, there was a legitimate government, on the other hand there were tanks, foreign troops, foreign servants. I must say that in those independence environments in which I had the honour to act before 1989, there was such expectation that when there is a democratic Poland, we will start from the return to the April Constitution to the hard ground. 'Cause if you're a state of law, that's the question, from what point? How long will this sin of the illegal law of the occupier be behind us? There was a big line, there was trouble. I remember the serious doubts of President Ryszard Kaczorowski and his colleagues about handing over the insignia to Lech Wałęsa. It wasn't so obvious. We try to avoid these difficult topics. We're trying to look to the future. Senator Żaryn spoke too gently in front of me. Mr. Senator, let's not be so sensitive, because we're about to talk about victims in Volyn and other victims. And yet here was the source of so many misfortunes. Therefore, I cannot listen to acceptance and recognition of the PKWN and for all that is involved. A separate matter is the damage and their repair. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u31	Thank you very much, Professor. And I'm gonna ask you to speak... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] ...Senator Jackowski. [[...in the form of correction.]] Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u32	Senator Wind, claiming that I praised PKWN and found that the decisions of PKWN were decisions of a sovereign authority, and outraged by this, he did not understand me. He didn't understand me. But I'm not outraged about it, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u33	Thank you very much. I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak. [[This one will explain everything.]] [[Then why did you start the discussion?]] Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I would like to draw attention to the strange methodology that sneaked into our discussion, because in this discussion there were threads of Marxist history talking about class struggle. These threads bothered me, because we came out of the Marxist period alive. I remember, as a student of history, that... [[Maybe it's over? It'd be nice to finally get it out of your head.]] ...it was such a fashion that the landowners were criticized, that they were bloodsuckers of the people, that they were a vacuum class, doing nothing that worked for the destruction of just the whole of Poland. Well, such a stereotype, unfortunately, was, he was somehow printed in there and unfortunately after 1989, this stereotype still, as you can see, repents. I would like to draw attention to the fact that since the 19th century or at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries and during the interwar period, there were doctors, the landowners were peasants, the landowners were townspeople, the landowners were Poles, the landowners were Jews, the landowners were Germans, Belarusians, Ukrainians, Russians, French, representatives of various social groups and ethnic groups. And I would like to recall here a hero from my constituency, one of the soldiers of the January Uprising, Samuel Posner, who died heroically in the Battle of Dispatch on 3 July 1863 and was buried in a Jewish cemetery in Żuromin. Samuel was born in 1835 as the son of David and Salomei Posner. He owned the goods of Kuchara and Idzikowice near Sochocin in the district of Płońskie and the grandson of Solomon Markus Posner, a merchant, philanthropist and rabbi who came to Poland from Finland, an activist for the assimilation of Jews and one of the precursors of the agricultural Jewish settlement in the Polish countryside. It is worth noting here that under the Tsar's order of 1822. The Jews could buy land property. Samuel Posner studied painting in Germany and Italy since the mid - 1950's. There he encountered the freedom movement and fought under Garibaldi's command. When the uprising broke out, he entered the insurgent ranks, a branch led by Stanisław Zgliszczyński, a pseudonym called "Kashuba." On July 3, 1863, this branch of approximately 130 poorly armed insurgents was attacked by an almost 300-person team of Dukmasov's Esaula under Transportation near Żuromin. The insurgents tried to get out of the closing ring of the lap. The situation was difficult. Posner wrote a historian with a handful of similar heroes standing like a wall in front of Moscow and his breasts behind the retreat of the branch. The bullet stabbed him in the eye and put him dead on the spot; almost all the warriors of his comrades gave way to a similar fate, but the entire branch survived. The heroic act of Posner echoed widely throughout Mazowsze, and the researcher of the Uprising in Mazowsze, Professor Ryszard Juszkiewicz, called him Żurominski Leonidas. This is one of the most characteristic examples, showing why in Polish tradition and history this was due, among other things, to the loss of its own country. This was the role of the earth's environment, why it was such a phenomenon of the earth's environment and how it played an important role. And it's very good that we're restoring this environment to the right place. Which obviously doesn't mean And that's what I'm talking [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...and I spoke clearly in my speech. That all members of this environment were glowing characters. Because no social group or professional group is made up of ideal characters. And that, too, should be remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. I would like to remind you that the second reading concludes by referring the draft to the committee in order to respond to the proposals submitted in the course of the discussion. I therefore conclude that the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Senator Jan Żaryn has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I'm calling a half-hour break until 10.48. I'm asking for an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u36	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting for the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 18 to 10 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm extending the recess until 11.10. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 48 to 11 minutes 10]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u38	It's a start, isn't it? We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union. The Senate, following the second reading of the draft resolution, sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at this Senate meeting. It is in print No 197 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Committee met at a recess to discuss, first of all, the amendment tabled by the senator and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. I would like to remind you that the amendment concerned the deletion of the sentence: At the same time, the Landers' Association continues its Polish Earth Society, being its ideal and moral heir. After the discussion, a vote took place. As a result of the vote, no one supported Senator Borusewicz's amendment, four abstentions, all other people, the vast majority, were against this amendment. Therefore, please adopt a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union without amendments, in accordance with print No 197 S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u40	Mr. Senator, does Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz still want to speak? [[No, thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the amendment, print No 197 X, and then on the adoption of the draft in its entirety, print No 197 S, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz in print No. 197 X. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 57 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 6]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee in print No 197 S. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 71 for, 7 against, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Grounders' Union. I ask Mr.Marcin Schirmer, President of the Board of the Polish Earth Society, to approach the Presidency table. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 216, and the committee's report In print No 216 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee at its meeting on 29 June considered the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws; print No 216. This law is commonly called a debureocratic act. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The bill is quite extensive, because it is written on 25 pages. But I would like to point out here that work is already underway on the development of... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...a new law on higher education. Minister of Science and Higher Education, Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, has announced the competition, 3 teams have been selected, they are to be drafted by January or February next year, then an analysis will take place and probably some consolidation of these proposals and they will be presented at the Congress of Polish Science. The current law on higher education dates back to 2005, with numerous amendments in force. I printed this current law on higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is very thick, which is not conducive to the development and functioning of higher education. There is talk of overregulation and killing self-reliance, creativity, entrepreneurship. We hope the new bill will be three times thinner. I'm going back to the issue of this bill. It addresses a number of obstacles, mainly bureaucratic ones, focusing mainly on non-controversial, obvious issues. There are many, in total more than 31 topics on higher education, 6 on degrees and academic titles, as well as scholarships. The most important of these are the reduction of bureaucracy related to the National Qualifications Frameworks for Higher Education, back to the 4-year period between the various evaluations of academic teachers, the elimination of the competition at the promotion of an academic teacher, less reporting obligations related to the POL-on database containing data on higher education, and the preservation of powers during organisational changes of units. Of course, the law was assessed, consulted, since March was made available on the website of the Government Legislative Centre. It also has more radical changes, such as the abolition of the approval of university statutes by the Ministry or the issue of the freedom of post-graduate studies. As far as these key changes are concerned, the first point refers to the National Qualifications Frameworks. The second point is to limit the number of places for those taking studies in the next direction. We remember that previously there was a great social upheaval related to preventing study in the second direction, and now this law removes these restrictions. There are also provisions concerning the Polish Accreditation Board, in particular its accreditation. For example, there is a detailed record to enable universities to collect e-mail addresses of graduates in connection with monitoring their careers. There is a clarification of the provision on the establishment of a public professional university. It is also important to include in the list academic teachers and academics information on the final judgment against the teacher of disciplinary punishment. There are many, many other things, although perhaps there is no need to present them in detail at the moment. An example of a very detailed matter is the change in the entity responsible for providing training to students in terms of their rights and obligations. Until now, the Parliament of Students of the Republic of Poland was to do so, and it is now being taken over by the authorities of the university. There are many important facilities here that will make life easier during this period before the new law comes into force, this bureaucratic mitre will be smaller. Of course, there are many new fields. We also discussed them at the committee meeting. However, as they raise a broader discussion, it was decided that in this law they should not be included in the deregulation law. After examining all these circumstances, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u42	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Rotnicka.]] Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u43	Thank you very much. Dear Senator, I have a question, because this law introduces changes concerning post-graduate studies and it can be said that this is a certain liberalisation, it is an opportunity to conduct even post-graduate studies where there is no specific direction, it is not advisable what these post-graduate studies are supposed to give. So isn't this the gateway to using, I don't know, the material good of the university, not the responsibility for who you let out after these studies? I'm asking because I don't know who's gonna be teaching these post-graduate students. Can you give me a closer look?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u44	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Senator! We discussed this at the committee meeting. It seemed that this was a question of some kind of guarantee that if a university is conducting training in a given direction, it is likely that postgraduate studies will also be conducted at an appropriate level. Here, it was expressed by a representative of the Ministry, by the Minister, such a view that, since these are paid studies, we hope that these candidates will vote as if by their legs, colloquially speaking, i.e. they will make an informed decision, assess how valuable the proposed postgraduate studies are. Of course, it is possible to discuss whether this is the right view or whether this is sufficient. In any event, it has been claimed that the current restriction is not always justified. That's all I can say. [[I can say I don't agree very much, but this is not the time for discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u46	You're welcome to ask questions. I don't see any more volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most important elements of this law have already been presented by the rapporteur, for which I thank you very much, I will not repeat this. I'd just like to talk about the idea. Well, first of all, I would say that the environment is very much looking forward to deregulation and rebureaucratization. The law presented here by Senator Wind is indeed very extensive, and what is worse, it has already been modified several times and at the moment it is not entirely coherent. Thus work has already been done on a new law, which we hope will be more neat, smaller and easier to use. We are aware that this deregulation that we are now presenting may not be satisfactory. Although, as in the question of postgraduate studies, there are also voices that maybe at some points it goes too far that we deregulate too far. But for me and for the Ministry, in addition to the specific provisions and the specific simplifications that are in this project, it is also very important for the whole environment that we are really serious about deregulation at the moment, about simplifying legislation and creating such conditions that universities can actually benefit from their legitimate autonomy. It's probably the most important thing in all of this. And I hope that within the next year there will be a bill that will be able to satisfy all of us. Thank you very much. If there are questions, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u48	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u49	I would like to ask about the following, namely the scope of the Polish Accreditation Board. I was at the committee meeting, but I didn't ask that at the time. I'd like to ask you a question right now. Namely, why was institutional accreditation completely abandoned? This, of course, results in a whole series of changes to the provisions in this amendment, but basically there has been a complete resignation. Please kindly justify it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u50	I mean, it was actually one of the lively points discussed. This is what the Senator rapporteur was talking about, but it may be worth recalling that these changes that have emerged have been discussed in different bodies for several months. We are aware that some solutions are debatable, even if it is about post-graduate studies. Right? There are arguments that perhaps there should be some regulation to limit university freedom here, but we assume that autonomy also gives rise to responsibility that universities will be responsible for using the instruments they have. Moreover, it is the paid studies that make the interested parties simply have a decisive vote. And when it comes to institutional evaluation, it was also discussed. There was a hesitation in both directions. Whether to give up or not. In fact, this change has already appeared in the final stage, or even after the project entered the Sejm. It was an initiative of the current Polish Accreditation Commission, which in principle proposed to give up this instrument. The case is, as I said, debatable. That is, to what extent institutional accreditations carried out in recent years fulfilled their task, and to what extent they were part of the red tape, namely the additional instrument which was in the hands of the Polish Accreditation Board, and the effect of these accreditations was not quite measurable. So that already at the last stage of the work we decided to support this proposal from the Polish Accreditation Commission, but on the assumption and also with the awareness that these solutions are actually short-term, that in 2 years we will already have a systemic and target solution. And it does not seem that during this transition period, for the next two years, because such accreditation will not be possible, there will be some problems. In some sense, this will simplify the operation of the Polish Accreditation Commission, as well as facilitate the preparation of individual universities and scientific units for accreditation. So that's just an element of simplification.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Wojtyła, please. [[Thank you. I will not ask you a question, because the Minister has already provided an answer to the question I wanted to ask.]] Thank you. Senator Rotnicka. Questions, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u52	I'm short, too, because I'm actually referring to Senator Wach's statement. This institutional evaluation, however, had some value, I would say, nobilitating. Former faculty or universities better and worse And it was also some kind of information for those who were going to college. Such, I'll call it short, but the rankings are all over the world. They say this college is fantastic, this one's good, and that one's worse, and so on. Perhaps we should consider changing the criteria leading to this assessment. But if the Minister says it's so-called. a timer for a year or for two years, I think that after trying out all these solutions it will be possible to return to some things, because they were, in my opinion, reasonable, as in the case of postgraduate studies and accreditation committee. In addition, there are many very good solutions in this law that simplify and relieve universities from such a total unnecessary bureaucratic work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u53	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u54	I would say that the assumption, a certain idea, that institutional accreditation would introduce a hierarchy of departments or individuals, was probably right, but looking at recent years, I think it didn't work out very well. If we are talking about rankings of universities or faculties, I would add that today these rankings are more based on assessments, as in the case of rankings of I say this from my practice also as a rector or a man operating in this environment There has been little evidence in recent years. I'd say it so gently.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pekkis. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u56	These rankings concern universities, which can be compared, which have a similar education profile. But if there are individual departments in universities And there are universities that, for example, they have 2 such departments on a national scale It's impossible to compare them, so they don't get into the ranking, although they're fantastic...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u57	Closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u58	That's right, that's all it is... Maybe I shouldn't have brought up another topic because institutional accreditation, in my understanding, was about to have this kind of hierarchy in terms of the quality of education at individual universities. In my opinion, Although I'm not saying she's definitely 100% hit, because there's probably examples that this accreditation worked somewhere. She didn't do this job or value it. The subject of rankings is a broad topic, but the law or the amendment we are talking about does not raise this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u59	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Defining and deregulation are certainly useful and necessary for higher education, and in connection with this law changes should certainly be made. Before I move on to the essentials that I would like to sum up with the amendments tabled, I would like to say about the minor amendments that are included in this law and which are not due to deregulation, but to ordering. Such an amendment is e.g. amendment relating to Article. Article 49 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, which concerns the activities of the Accreditation Board. It introduced the possibility, previously non-existent, to carry out evaluations at the request of universities subject to another legal regime, i.e. the concordat. The practice was that universities subject to the concordat, as not subject to the Higher Education Act, felt hurt because they could not be assessed in terms of the quality of education, and such an assessment of the quality of education would be useful for them in various cases. She has no formal effects, but maybe among others. build prestige. At the request of several universities I say this as an ex-president who was under pressure from ecclesiastical universities, because the universities wanted it, but that there was in fact no legal basis. Now that this amendment has been introduced, there will be a legal basis for evaluation. The second amendment, which actually raises my objections, also related to the quality of education, concerns the limit of doctoral admissions. The amendment introduces a rule whereby the number of students in doctoral studies who receive scholarships translates into the number of students in doctoral studies at all, and students in non-stationary studies are to be no more than those in fixed studies. As a result it would appear per balance that since 1/4 of students of doctoral studies receive a scholarship and the university has a scholarship for 50 people, there can be no more than 200 students of doctoral studies. I can understand the logic of this provision, but I do not see the connection with the quality of education, because whether or not studies are good depends not on whether there are 100 or 200 students, but on what the staff teaches them and what the infrastructure is. I'm gonna move on to things that I'm more interested in when it comes to details. I propose to remove one of the provisions that was amended in the act. It's like Professor Wind said. In view of the deletion of the obligation to determine the number of places for those students for which this is the second course of study. The whole provision reads as follows: The public university seat shall determine, by resolution, the number of places on the various courses of fixed studies for a given academic year, based on the principle of responsibility for the quality of education and the possibilities to ensure that they are financed from public funds, and ensuring that the structure of study courses is compatible with the university mission. In my view, the whole point is debatable, as it de facto introduces an obligation to set admission limits for the first year of study, while recruitment can take place at the university. This is the result of the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which says that studies are conducted as part of a course of study: the student's admission to a specific course of study shall not be later than the end of the first year of study. So it's an art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 gives universities and candidates to study, and then to students, flexibility in the choice of courses after they have started their studies. This obviously makes a lot of sense, for example. In the case of universities such as the one that I had the privilege of directing: students get into an economic university and what direction they choose from among many different economic directions, they decide after getting a better understanding of what economy is, not just based on the knowledge they learned from high school. So since the admission of a student to a specific course of study takes place no later than after the end of the first year of study, why ask the senate to determine the number of places in a particular course of study in a given academic year. It's in contradiction... I know what the idea of this recipe was when it was made. The second part of the sentence was that the Senate should be guided by the principle of responsibility for the quality of education at the time of decision. But I assume that every good university sets the admission limit according to this principle, and it doesn't have to be written down in the bill. However, in short, a bad university will do this pro forma only to adapt to the regulations, because it does not care about the quality of education. Moreover, the provision does not provide for sanctions for failure to comply with the conditions for setting admission limits. At no time was it said why only public universities should do this in the case of stationary courses. Why not be responsible for the quality of education in non-stationary studies? I assume that good universities care about the quality of education in all directions, whether these courses are paid or not, and that they do so, in accordance with the principle of responsibility for the quality of education, non-public universities. That's why I'm suggesting we delete this point. The next amendment is related to what you asked Senator Rotnicka. This is an amendment repealing paragraph. 7 and 8 of Articles. 8. The provision of paragraph so far. 7 sounded so that the university could conduct postgraduate studies in the field of education, with at least one course of study being conducted by the university. I would like to remind you that, in order to be able to conduct the course of studies, the university must meet strict criteria, in particular that it must ask the Minister to grant the right to education. The Polish Accreditation Board then checks whether the university fulfils the criteria laid down in the regulations to be able to educate, and if all these conditions are met, there is training. After deleting this provision, each university, regardless of its infrastructure and staff, will be able to conduct any postgraduate studies. The courses conducted at first and second levels, i.e. undergraduate and master levels, are assessed on the quality of education and postgraduate studies are not evaluated by anyone, as are doctoral studies. They have been assessed to some extent on the quality of education in the form of an institutional evaluation, but another amendment abolishes this institutional assessment. If we take into account these 2 amendments introduced by the Sejm, it will turn out that the evaluation of the quality of post-graduate education and doctoral studies in general disappears. I don't accept the explanation that the market is going to verify that if people want to pay, they might say that I'm going to go to college, and if these studies are bad, they're not going to go to college. If you accept such reasoning, you would have to abolish accreditation for absentee studies, because they are also paid and the market also checks it out. In my view, this far-reaching re-bureaucratization, i.e. the total release of the post-graduate study market, does not serve the quality of education, and in some cases, e.g. In the field of physiotherapists, it can be dangerous for citizens. One of the amendments made by the Sejm to the project... It was a government project, but in some areas significantly changed in the Seym. In the Seym version, the criteria to be used by the accreditation committee proposed by the government were added to the criteria: assessment of the compatibility of education programmes with the mission and strategy of university development, internationalisation of the education process, accreditations and certificates of institutions, assessment of the infrastructure used for the implementation of educational outcomes, support of students in the learning process. In my view, it would be better at the level of the law to refer the criteria to the most general provision, the most general being European standards and guidelines. Let me remind you that this is a document which is regularly drawn up and adopted by the ministers of science and higher education in the European Higher Education Area. For the first time, the meeting was held in Prague in 2001 and regularly every 2 years was held in Berlin, Bergen, London, Leuven, Budapest and recently in Eryvana in 2014. Bergen established in 2005 the first version of these European standards and guidance on quality assurance of education. The qualifications framework was also introduced. Both of these things. European standards and guidance on quality assurance of education and the framework for qualifications They are a tool for promoting and enabling student mobility between European universities. The reference to European standards would be beneficial for the generality of the law. It would have one more aspect that I'll be back to in a minute. Correction... [[Time's up.]] ...amending art. Article 48a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Allow me to protest against... and maybe correct what the Minister said, that this is a change at the request of the PKA. There's only one word missing. At the request of the president of the PKA. There's no committee resolution like that, it's not what the committee's asking for. Let me remind you that the government project made a different proposal. The government proposal said that institutional evaluation is a simultaneous and multiple evaluation of the programme. After that, there have been changes, I would say healing what the government has proposed, because it is better that there is no institutional evaluation at all than if it were to be a simultaneous programme evaluation. In my view, however, the institutional evaluation was better and, moreover, the abolition of the institutional evaluation is contrary to the general idea underlying this law, namely the limitation of bureaucratic obligations. Why? Firstly, it means increasing the number of programme evaluations for those universities that are good and which have had institutional assessments There were around 250 such assessments. It means... [[Time's up.]] I'm gonna ask you to add... This means producing documentation for each direction separately, and there are departments that lead to 10 courses of study, and now instead of one institutional evaluation, such a department will have to prepare for 10 visits. It's certainly not a rebureaucratization. [[Then let's make an informal arrangement that the senator has another five minutes for his second speech.]] Right away. [[Yeah, right away. If none of you mind. And then you will speak to Senator Hare.]] If you don't mind, I'll continue. From the point of view of the university The abolition of institutional evaluation increases the number of visits several times, which means costs for the budget, organisational problems for universities. And the institutional evaluation was de facto dedicated to good academic institutions. In such universities there are customary, traditional, generation-developed standards for creating a program offer and conducting high-quality studies programmes. Institutional evaluation by another set of criteria and method of evaluation de facto distinguished academics And that was the postulates of the rectors' and academic conferences in general. I stress that, in the case of institutional evaluation, the basic unit, i.e. the department, is subject to assessment. In turn, the programme evaluation was dedicated to universities, I would say, ordinary, which is, you can say, weaker or younger. As part of the programme evaluation, the university was examined in the course of accreditation procedures, in accordance with the law, in numerous specific criteria for each direction separately. Therefore, as I said, the abolition of institutional evaluation and the introduction of the need to carry out a number of programme evaluations instead of one means for universities to multiply the bureaucratic burden. This is due to the fact that in universities large, good faculties usually run several courses of study at both levels and sometimes on both profiles. After the proposed change, institutions will have to instead of one institutional evaluation As it was before the 2011 amendment. The level of education profiles is subject to as many assessments as there are courses as there are levels, as each profile, each direction and each level is assessed separately. This means a repeated extension of the time spent preparing and carrying out the accreditation process. The data indicate that the number of courses conducted by departments previously institutionally assessed is between 3 and 10 only the University of Opole and the University of Szczeciński so have In general, the 50 institutional evaluations that were carried out in 2012 will replace 242 programme evaluations. This indicates the scale of the change: instead of 50 over 200. I understand that the frustration and irritability of the departments of these good, large academic universities due to repeated visits was the reason why institutional assessments were introduced. Although, of course, I see some shortcomings in the institutional assessment, e.g. previously, we did not write in the Act that such assessments should be subject only to those departments which have habilitating powers, this recording simply lacked. In addition, there was no provision at the level of the Regulation that would reward those with a distinctive assessment, but there was a reward for those departments that had a distinctive programme assessment. That is why I am making amendments to the Bureaucratisation and the amendments that the Sejm has introduced, as well as to the amendment aimed at restoring the limitation of post-graduate studies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u61	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it is very welcome to welcome any initiative aimed at starting work on the revision of the last law on higher education, which not only speaks of the thickness in terms of the number of pages, it is something very difficult to apply, because a few other features of it indicate that we have had to deal with a law in the past few years, which in the history of higher education in Poland is not going to be the best one. I therefore very much support what we have received as an amendment, and I take this as a signal to the work that has already begun. A few words about grad school. You can say things, but if you look at what the organization of post-graduate studies looks like at every university, it seems that some fears should probably be left for some time. There is a postgraduate department everywhere, which selects lecturers for individual courses. And sometimes the teachers are professors from other universities. It is not that this is happening within one university: it is doing a certain task with a properly selected staff. Personally, for a long time, I was skeptical about postgraduate studies, until finally there was a person at my university who started this type of work, and I have to say that I am very pleased with it. I wouldn't attribute this loosening to some specially negative qualities. Of course, all dorms are used to having a certain framework. We go this way, we're not allowed to go that way, etc. But it doesn't affect the level of activity. The level is affected by a completely different thing: when it comes to the level of postgraduate studies, it depends on who is studying not for formalities, but for knowledge. These people then have a lot to say about the level. I would also like to allow myself to say a few words about this process that is beginning, namely the preparation of a new law. Of course, this previous law, as I said, will not register best in the history of Polish science, Polish universities, higher education in general, because it has unbelievably bureaucraticized our studies. And we see bureaucracy, from college to the thresholds of the ministry. In fact, before the Ministry's doorstep, there was a bureaucracy that began to have features. Self-development. And sometimes at the presidents' conferences, we really think about what this is all meant to do, what this is supposed to lead to. Paper behind paper, control behind control, even groups arise, separate departments at universities that handle control. This is something you really need to look at, you need to control it, because bureaucracy like nothing in the world has the characteristics of self-development. This is a very important matter. Another thing I would like to bring to you all here, because it is very important if we are to improve this bill... It is about the segregation of the current law, about the fact that matters of science have been treated extremely formally, attributed to institutions, not attributed to scientists. If someone, a good scientist, works at a lower-class university, he just doesn't matter. And we can imagine, for example, Einstein, who would appear today. And there's a guy like him. But he wouldn't even have anyone to talk to. No one would talk to him because at the time he was making the biggest inventions, he was working at the post office. Which is why I'd really like to ask... And I would like to give the Minister such a signal that scientists are doing scientific work, not institutions. And the result of that is today in the form of rankings. And in the current situation in these rankings, in terms of scientific results, unfortunately we are flying down and taking very, very far away places. Therefore, I wish you success in working on this presented idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u63	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Rocki. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? [[At the committee meeting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u64	Yeah, I'm assuming, too... They were presented here by your professor, Senator Rocki. In fact, very competently, at a high level of detail, the conclusions, but we will address them at the committee meeting and we will discuss them there. And here, maybe I'll just refer to two things. The limits in doctoral school. There's no amendment to that. This was actually introduced at the request of environments, mainly young PhD students, because also the number of PhD students is a certain parameter that strongly affects the quality of studies, not one, but is sure. The practice of recent years shows that, for good reasons, so to speak, the funding of the student of doctoral studies 'Cause he's kind of going into the algorithm with a high parameter. The university received students from doctoral studies with some excess. And it was in my view that it had a very clear negative impact on the quality of these studies. So in this respect, this amendment is, as if it regulates a little bit of the matter, so it limits the possibilities of the university. And as for the last one... Well, there was a very interesting thought of senator hare about the segregation of science. I share this view that science is done primarily by people, and institutions are - Should they be? - I don't know. Only a certain tool to organize their work. And I'm sure when we work on this new bill, this idea will be guiding us. But on the other hand, today, in the existing legal state, there are possibilities for those outside the institutions, or at least it is theoretically so, because in practice it looks different. But even if the NCN dedicates certain grants to such individuals, showing then affiliation to the institution, so there are certain instruments. There is no doubt, however, that those who are not related to institutions or to public higher education institutions, and who have scientific potential, have a more difficult situation than those who operate at large universities. Thank you very much, and the rest will, I think, be at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u65	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Since I'm the rapporteur at the next point, I have a request to replace me here. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u66	We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on public collective transport. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 156 and the committee's report In print No 156 S. I now ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Mr Marshal, Senator Grzegorz Czelej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is the easiest one possible: a year longer vacathio legis of the law on public collective transport. At a committee meeting on 5 July, I tabled one amendment which is legislative in nature and amends other articles of the Act so that the vacathio legis concerns consistently all points of the Act. The amendment of the Act is needed for local governments, because at the moment they are not prepared to implement the Act, and the amendments contained in the Act to date, which would enter into force from 1 January of the next year, would introduce chaos, among others. on the issue of reduced tickets and difficulties in this respect. The project did not raise any objections after having answered a few questions, among others. The question is why it's being moved by a year. Here is an explanation that contracts and tenders cover annual cycles and the annual cycle is minimal, which is needed for amendments to the existing law. The joint committees adopted the bill together with my proposal unanimously, and no one abstained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u68	Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Grzegorz Czelej to represent them. Are there any questions? Yes. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The question is... Because many local governments have already prepared to implement this law. So will this initiative not slow down the involvement of local governments, especially district governments, in the implementation of this law, which is expected, needed because it organises public transport at local level?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u70	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u71	Only a few local authorities are prepared to enter into force of the current law. The extension of its entry into force by one year, according to the OSR, i.e. the impact assessment of the regulation that we have received, does not have any financial implications. If we hadn't brought this up and the bill came into force, we'd be dealing with huge chaos in this market.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u72	Thank you. Are there any other questions? There isn't. Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the report. At present, the senators... Oh, does a government representative want to speak on the bill under consideration? Please, Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank the Senate very warmly for taking this initiative, and especially Marshal Czelej, because indeed this short bill is very much needed. Despite 6 years of preparation for the implementation of the law, unfortunately, much of the necessary work has not been done. But you could say that in a way that's good, because if the current law were to apply in its entirety, it would create at least 4 very serious threats that I would like to mention. Firstly, it would undoubtedly lead to a weakening of the country's communication cohesion, as a large part of small centres would simply be deprived of bus transport, buses that reach small centres and sometimes are one collective transport. Secondly, the mandatory announcement of tenders by local authorities for the choice of the operator, and only operators will be able to receive compensation for reduced tickets, would lead to the elimination of small entrepreneurs, who would very often not be able to face large companies which would sometimes be able to offer even dumping rates, just to enter the market. Another issue is the great inconvenience that students, students and other people who are entitled to relief would be affected in the first place, as the lack of opportunities for some carriers to benefit from reduced transport would increase travel costs for these groups. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the only work that is underway. Once again, I thank the Senate very much for working on the vacathio legis, because there is also work on a very substantive, serious amendment of this law, and I think that we will soon be able to meet again with the High Senate in this matter. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u74	Thank you very much. Please stay here for a moment. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, the lack of legislation so far led to the exclusion of many smaller centres, especially rural areas. The law, which was adopted and whose date of entry into force we want to postpone at the moment, extends this period of communication exclusion, because it imposed an obligation, especially on the counties, to prepare transport plans, to organise transport in these smaller centres. What is the direction in which this change is going, the proposal you are currently working on? Will this regulation really lead to the fact that these smaller centres, especially rural areas, will not be excluded by communication?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u76	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u77	High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Changes are being made in this direction. The point is that today we have this situation, that in the case of the issuing of tenders, also by powiats, it would be such a threat, reported not only by carriers, but also by local authorities, that large transport companies could master this market, and then really that competition, which is today, would be eliminated from the market. The counties will continue to be obliged to prepare transport programmes, but we want to put in place solutions which will not be obliged to carry out tenders. So even more so, local government units will be able to ensure that communication reaches these smallest centres. It will be the responsibility of the local authorities, so those who best recognize these needs. Many local authorities have reported that the mandatory announcement of tenders can be counterproductive to the objective we want to achieve, i.e. to increase communication cohesion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u79	I am sorry to ask so many questions about this, but the bill is indeed very important from the point of view of these local communities. However, it seems that on the basis of this law, the date of entry into force of which we are moving, it is possible to create even one's own transport system by individual counties, because I know at least in Pomerania it is. "Some districts were preparing to start their own public transport at the level of the county, coordinated with the transport of other counties. Plans have already been drawn up, preparations have been made for the development of local and regional transport plans just to prevent communication exclusion. Today the situation is that each line is a de facto private undertaking, often they are lines of different carriers and there is absolute chaos, it happens that the carriers are only where the transport is profitable. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u80	Mr. Senator, I'm sure no effect of this work that the local governments have done will be wasted. The draft law prepared will give local governments such opportunities and what has been prepared today will not go on the shelf. If these are good plans, if they are verified next year, because I understand that after a year, when the vacathio legis ceases to apply, the law will enter into force, then they can still be used. So there's no loss here, there's no fear that this job will be wasted or the plan will go on the shelf.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u81	If I may add something, Senator, Minister, on the example of the Lublin Voivodeship, whose situation we analysed at the conference last September in the Column Room, in the invitation to tender announced by the Marshal of the Voivodship no one from over 400 carriers from the Lublin Voivodeship met the criteria for joining this invitation to tender. If he had come to an end and had been decided, only one line would have been the operator. I am not going to say what, the large international and ninety percent Lublin Voivodeship would be deprived of the possibility of using reduced tickets. This translates into the situation of hundreds of thousands of people who commute all the time. The scale... [[Voice from the room: Corruption.]] ...the mess that would have happened, or a certain injustice would have been unimaginable as a result of the previous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u82	Mr. Marshal, but it's not the bill's fault, it's probably the terms of the tender. It is, of course, unacceptable to bring about such a situation... [[But don't argue.]] ...but because someone in some voivodship is doing it wrong, we have to change the entire bill that is actually... [[The current law makes it possible.]] But the bill didn't come into force because we're moving it by a year, right? [[That's why we're moving it by a year.]] And now we're leading to a situation that's about to aggravate this chaos.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u83	We are doing this in order to have time to prepare another law, which is very complicated, requires many consultations, as you have repeatedly requested. Such fundamental changes I think we're in agreement with the Minister here. It would not have been possible to prepare it to enter into force in May of this year. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: If you can...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u84	It is also a matter of fact that some local governments have actually started tendering processes and there have been doubts as to whether these tenders will be important, whether this will cause any threats to local governments, some claims against local governments. That is why today we interrupt these diwagations as soon as possible, introducing an extension of the vacathio legis, while at the same time working on substantive, very deep amendments to the bill. And that is actually the main reason why the government disagrees with the content itself, with the substance of the law itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u85	Do you have any questions for the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u86	I have no questions, I just have a request that I may send you later in writing the assumptions of these new solutions that you propose in the bill. [[Well, that's only when the ministry prepares it and goes into consultation.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Normal mode, normal mode.]] I understand that it is because the Minister said it was in the middle of work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u87	We're close to finishing our work. And, of course, in normal mode, this bill will be processed, and we do not want to apply any extraordinary modes here. We want to implement this law in normal mode both through the Sejm and through the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u88	You're welcome to ask questions. I don't see any calls. I understand you'll be sending this to Senator Kleina... Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are also no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Please read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u89	The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the proposals submitted during the plenary debate to the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws, Senate printing No 216, will take place today immediately after the announcement of the break in room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u90	Thank you very much. I'm calling a two-and-a-half-hour break. [[What took you so long?]] [[Conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: It's already a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u91	It's a formal matter. Four amendments to the bill, and two and a half hours off. Could you explain to the marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u92	This is the decision of Marshal Karczewski. [[Voice from the room: What time is it?]] Two and a half hours. I've announced a two-and-a-half-hour break. [[That's an hour. 14.44.]] [[Are we waiting for something, Mr. Marshal?]] At committee meetings. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 14 to 14 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u93	Resume session and adjourn until 3:45 p.m. [[Voice from the courtroom: But, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Can you justify that?]] The marshal doesn't have to justify ordering a break, but I can tell you that the committee hasn't finished yet. [[Voice from the O.R.: Which one?]] By 3:45 a.m., hour break. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 45 to 15 minutes 46]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u94	I'm reopening the session. You're welcome, Senators Secretary... They're here. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft resolution on paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and considering it as a point of the 15th agenda. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: consent to the appeal of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications and consider it as item 16 of the agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I'll say... [[Objection.]] ...that the High House has accepted this proposal. I hear an objection. Who called it in? [[Jackie, stay where you are.]] Senator Rulewski is against it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I heard he was going to introduce a resolution on the Volyn crime on the agenda. With all due respect to those who remember about the victims, about difficult matters from the times of World War II in areas where they played their fight 2 totalitarianisms, as well as nationalistic speeches of enemies of Poland and Poles, inhabitants of the Kresów, I believe that at present and has been happening for years. There is a process of standardisation in relations between Ukraine and Poland. This is served by events such as the Euro, the visits of the presidents President Duda was in Kiev And, above all, tomorrow's NATO Summit and with it NATO meeting Ukraine. This is a signal that in Poland there is a defence of the sovereignty of Ukraine. Poland is indeed in favour of this process at this point in time. I was given to read the draft resolutions. To be honest, the accents that were written by Vice-President Duma Zyrinowski sound in them. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Don't exaggerate!]] And it's not even informal at all... It's unacceptable. As I understand it, an amendment to force the president to award awards could be tabled here. There is a division of parliamentary and presidential power. Therefore, Mr. Marshal... [[You're the ones who forced him...]] Please, especially those colleagues who deeply understand the Polish state's right not to put this item on the agenda until a favourable text is agreed and acceptable, including by the Civic Platform, and the conditions under which this resolution can be adopted in agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u96	Thank you very much. In that case, I'm in charge of the vote. We are voting on my proposal. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 25 against. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I declare that we have completed the agenda by two items previously mentioned by me. We begin to consider item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 236, and the report is published in print No 236 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present the report of the draft resolution to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We debated in the Legislative Commission the matter of paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945. Quite a number of amendments have been made, which make the project in its present form slightly different from the one originally received by the senators. Therefore, I think it would be good if, at the end of my speech, I read this resolution that is now being proposed. But before that, I would like to say, as regards the formal issues, that during the meeting of the Legislative Commission, a motion was made by Senator Marek Borowski to reject the resolution in its entirety. 4 senators were in favour of this request, 7 against. Then a resolution was put to the vote with quite a number of amendments, as I said. 7 senators voted in favour of the resolution, 3 abstentions, 1 vote against. Since, I think, we will still be discussing both the meaning and content of the resolution, it would be good for us to listen to the current version as much as possible. So that, God forbid, we don't discuss another version. May I, Mr. Marshal, read it? [[All the time, Mr. Senator.]] The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945. In July 2016, the 73rd anniversary of the wave of crime was celebrated by the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization (CNS) and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA) and the SS (Galizien) and the Ukrainian collaborating formations. As a result of genocide a hundred and tens of thousands of citizens of the Second Republic of Poland were murdered in 1939 and 1945. Their exact number is still unknown, and many of them still have not received a worthy burial and commemoration. Jews, Armenians, Czechs, representatives of other national minorities, as well as Ukrainians trying to help victims were also killed in massacres besides Poles. This tragic experience should be restored to the historical memory of modern generations. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to the citizens of the Second Polish Republic who were brutally murdered by Ukrainian nationalists. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses the highest recognition of border self-defense, the soldiers of the Home Army, the Battalions of the peasants and other independence organizations, undertaking a heroic fight in the defence of the victims. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses the respect and gratitude of these Ukrainians, who risked their lives and saved Poles. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls on the President of the Republic of Poland to honour all deserving State decorations. Victims of crimes committed in the 1940s by Ukrainian nationalists have not yet been properly commemorated, and mass murders have not been named in accordance with historical truth. Genocide. The Senate of the Republic of Poland calls for the Polish Sejm to be established on 11 July by the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Polish Republic. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses respect for Kresowians and their descendants and people of good will who have been demanding the truth about genocide for decades and care for the memory of the victims, following the motto: "Not revenge, but the memory of the victims." The resolution shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. As rapporteur, I had so much to say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u98	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Jan Zarin to represent them. Senator Klein's the first, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u99	Mr Marshal, Senator Rapporteur, three years ago, on the 70th anniversary of these tragic events in Volyn, we adopted as the Senate in consensus a difficult bill, which also indicated... [[Voice from the room: Resolution.]] A resolution, I'm sorry. ...which also pointed to this tragedy and the responsibility of people for this tragedy in Volyn in 1943 and in the years to come. Did anything special happen after that time that we should adopt a new resolution? There is no round anniversary of these events today. Since then, since the 70th anniversary, there have also been many things in Ukraine that prove that the agreement, agreement, reconciliation between our peoples is possible and that the Ukrainian people see this tragedy as also the tragedy of their nation. Don't you think that this resolution, adopted on an anniversary not too round, but, in fact, continuing that thing, is unnecessary today? It seems that if all of us, Poles and Ukrainians, according to that resolution, acted, it would be better for our nations and for the memory of this tragedy that touched our nation. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u100	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u101	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator. Of course, such a circumstance happened and there was such a fact that in autumn 2015 we had parliamentary elections, which had some effect on parliamentary elections. Namely, the Polish nation entrusted important matters in Poland into the hands of Law and Justice, which is the Law and Justice in its program... But also we all, as we sit here on this side of the room, during the election campaign we had a very often asked question, whether on a lie functioning for 25 years in the Third Republic can build authentic friendship between any nations. [[What lie?]] And the lie was about... [[This resolution?]] [[After all, this resolution was adopted by consensus.]] [[Sit still.]] ...avoidance, for various reasons... I can, of course, continue to guide the thread of avoiding the only word that holds the historical truth within me. Sometimes it's the keywords. You all remember that key word about the founding foundation of evil, which was the Katyn lie. We didn't build any friendship on the Katyn lie, just wounds, constant wounds. And just as on the lie that we did not use the word "humanicide," we will never de facto establish true Polish-Ukrainian friendship. Such a person, among others. was the definition of these programming reasons stemming from the Law and Justice and all those who performed from the Letter of Law and Justice. Therefore, today, when we have the opportunity to show the Republic of Poland that our program is not only a programme written and postponed ad acta, but also with the current political life, we have just returned on this anniversary of July 11 to the process of a resolution devoted to victims of genocide in the South-East Kreses. And for the first time in this resolution, with such clarity, we used the word "genocide," so that, as I understand it, we would point out to the Ukrainian people that it is not where it should be looking for its heroes. It should not be there, not among the banners, but among the righteous who rescued Poles from other Ukrainians, who were racially, paganly, from Donców doctrine from the 1930s created and created on the basis of the Nazi mein Kampf project, after 10 years began ethnic cleansing in Polish territory. When the word "human murder" did not fall, we signaled softness, a signal saying that there was some area of negotiation concerning Polish-Ukrainian friendship concerning the murders in the South-East Kres. Well, I hope so. I am therefore a Senator of Law and Justice, not another formation, among others. 'Cause that's what I'm hoping for. That from now on, when Law and Justice rule in Poland, we will not deal with nations at the level of lies. It's never... [[What was the lie?]] [[What lie?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I may not speak Polish very well, Mr. Senator, but for 5 minutes I tried to prove to you the meaning of the word "human murder." You know that word... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But, ladies and gentlemen, please...]] Don't they know? This resolution introduces this word for the first time without relativisation. Is this something new or not? [[Do you know the resolution four years ago?]] I know and there's no word for genocide.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u102	But, Senator, wait a minute. I'm asking you to lower your emotional level. [[Emotion?]] Please answer the questions, not the lectures. [[Exactly.]] And I also ask for short questions and short answers, because we are not having a historical debate here, we are just debating a resolution. And I ask that we all return to our questions and answers. There you go, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. We're talking about a resolution, and we're not talking about history, ladies and gentlemen. [[Bravo.]] [[Applause]] No, I'm voting over... Don't give me any applause because that's not the point. [[What's the matter?]] Please, a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u103	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to answer the question. If, as you said, this resolution is... In 2015, you won the election. Explain to me why today, not two weeks ago, a month ago... We knew... you knew perfectly well when the anniversary was going to be, and so on. Why are you introducing this resolution in such a way? And please explain to us why the Sejm didn't introduce her in this mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u104	Mr. Marshal, Senator Dear, thank you very much for this question. It is true, but the answer is quite simple. Namely, to the meeting of our Legislative Commission, I specifically invited Mr Michał Dworczyk, who is in fact the main author of this proposed resolution, so that among others. He answered questions that lie more within the competence of Members than Senators, and this is the question, natural, he has received. His answer was that the Sejm began to proceed with a resolution on honoring the victims of genocide in the South-East Ends practically since February 2016. It seemed to me that at least here in the Senate I was somehow exempted from promoting a similar resolution. Everything indicated that the Sejm would deal with this and that the resolution adopted in the Senate would be adopted on time. It turned out that at that time, i.e. from February to July 2016. According to Mr Michał Dworczyk A total of 5 projects were created, including draft laws, draft resolutions... a dispute arose, and so it became a mess. I will not interfere in the affairs of the Sejm so much, but the fact is that the Sejm has not been able to draw up such a resolution. [[The piss has most of it.]] [[Something like that!]] [[He's got most of it.]] We therefore considered that this initiative should be taken over. The text of Mr Michael Dworczyk became the basic text and with the agreement of Mr Michael Dworczyk we proceed it here because it so happened that the Senators of Law and Justice very much wanted this resolution to be passed. We also hope at all times that the Senators of the Civic Platform also recognize that this resolution with the word "human murder" is important and necessary. [[One day, a few hours.]] [[Even though the MPs didn't recognize...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u105	Thank you very much. Please do not comment on the answer, please report and ask questions and answers. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u106	At least in 3 phrases, the word "humanicide" appears here. Are you aware as a senator and as a historian that you actually pay tribute to historical truth, but at the same time you are blocking the future? Do you take responsibility for this? Another question: don't you think that, by calling things by name, you are launching a claim process against still-living Poles, victims or their descendants? That the claims process against the Ukrainian state... Will you guarantee that these trials will end positively? [[Voice from the hall: What has a gingerbread for a windmill...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u107	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u108	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, let me start by answering the second question. Of course, there is no such guarantee, and it is not at all up to the Sejm or the Senate. It's all about the human right to assert their rights. It also has an international dimension. There's no doubt that... [[No, because jurisdiction doesn't include...]] If the citizen of the Polish State is the victim of any criminal act, I hope that the Polish State supports it. That's the way it is. in this Katyn case, it will always be in any case in which Poles are victims. I think it's obvious as long as we have a sovereign Polish state. And I hope that's what we have. As regards the tribute of history, of course, as I said, this is a tribute to the historical truth, because we recognize that not myself, but that I can use the plural number here, that true reconciliation is possible only on the foundation of the truth. Polish sensitivity cannot be covered with any blackmail, even as well-designed blackmail as right in current politics. These rations in current politics are actually... If they're articled to cover up the truth... That truth will come out anyway, because that's who we are. Do not try to create from us, the Polish people, other than ourselves. We only build friendships with other nations on the truth. [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u109	Senator Bogdan Klich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u110	I have two questions for the senator. First: did the committee take into account the important fact that in June of this year, priests, intellectuals and some Ukrainian politicians addressed us, Poles with an appeal that reminds us of our Church's appeal to Polish-German reconciliation in accordance with the principle of That appeal from 1965 became indeed the beginning of the Polish-German reconciliation and the foundation on which not only political but also, I would say, social ties between Poles and Germans were built. And as a result of the work of historians, but also many of us, what you are talking about, that is to say, a mutual understanding of the truth about those terrible times in Polish-German relations. Has the committee taken into account also That's my second question. A specific response to this appeal, which at the end of June the Bureau of the Polish Episcopal Conference made, when speaking about the need for reconciliation and the need for forgiveness? There is no mention of reconciliation in this resolution. This resolution only refers to... [[Mr. Senator, it's been a minute. Ask me a question.]] ...about the victims. [[Don't tell me... ask me a question.]] I'd like to ask you... [[Mr. Senator! Mr. Senator!]] I repeat, I asked if the committee had taken these two things into account. [[Ask me a question because you've been talking for two minutes.]] I asked two questions. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u111	Yes, but you also commented. Don't comment, just ask questions. [[The Poles were victims, so...]] Mr. Senator, we're not debating, we're not discussing this. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I do not remember that anyone at the meeting of the Legislative Commission referred to by you to the document of the Polish Episcopate, so the answer is simple: it did not constitute a basis for any solutions, also as regards the proposed, rejected and accepted amendments, and none of them were reminded of this document. The example given by the senator of the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops of 18 November 1965, a very beautiful and good example Not only a good letter, but also an example. Senator, the words we forgive and ask for forgiveness are a testimony of the path to reconciliation with the Poles which the German people had come through, and he was in a more difficult situation, because the German people worked so deeply during World War II that no one in Germany dares to make an official reference to the achievements of the 1933-1945 years. And that's exactly what this resolution is all about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u113	Senator Andrzej Bear, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u114	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, the content of this resolution or part of the content of the resolution, which you read and which is in print, can produce international effects. In view of the fact that the Senate is not the House whose task is to conduct international policy, I would like to ask whether there is an opinion of the Foreign Minister on this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u115	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, no, there is no opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this opinion was not received, but none of the members of the Legislative Commission asked for it, although it was asked if there was any voice of the Foreign Office in this matter. I repeat, there is no voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u117	Senator Mieczysław Golba.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u118	Professor, I have a question for you as a historian. I'm sure you'll explain to us whether this resolution we're going to be adopting today is better than the one in 2013. We know that it was then created, so to speak, a monster, I mean among others. the wording of the "circumstances of genocide'. We know that then two gentlemen got along, among others. President Bronisław Komorowski with Janusz Palikot. They voted together and took this resolution... [[It was a senate...]] [[Ask me a question.]] [[Komorowski... this is stupid.]] ...and they're mostly the ones that... [[Please read this resolution.]] [[The Senators of the PiS voted in favour of this resolution.]] [[Please don't comment...]] Then we ran out of 10 honest or just parliamentarians in the Sejm. Then we could actually make a bill without these words known as genocide. But what I mean is that it was the 70th anniversary, the 70th anniversary of the tragic events in Volyn, and it was a good opportunity. But that power, that president, they didn't react at all, and they passed a resolution on something that could practically be called a monster today, a verbal monster. I have a question: are there really border families waiting for such a resolution that we want to make today? Thank you. [[But the PiS senators also voted in favour of this monster.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u119	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as I'm concerned, I'll start with the last part of the question. Without a doubt, the border families have been waiting for the Sejm and the Senate, the highest authorities of the sovereign state of Poland, to enter this mood and the sensitivity that the border families have. Just so we're clear, I'm not from... The State often refers, also during the meeting of the Legislative Commission, to your CVs. I myself, among my loved ones, did not have a family that would be affected by the genocide of Ukrainian nationalists, but I am fully aware that the Polish community arises when it is able to fit into the sensitivity of those who have been affected in a unique way by crime, repression and this trauma continues in them until today, sometimes even passing from generation to generation. As I understand it, that's why these border families need this resolution so badly today, it's about not being squeezed in their pain, but that this pain, metaphorically speaking, is distributed to the whole Polish nation and that the whole Polish community can bear their pain, and their pain is just like that. Until now, the Polish state has not made a clear decision to write in the document: yes, it was a genocide crime, it was a crime comparable to the biggest such as the Holocaust. And they know it, and they're talking about it, and we're here to move this voice to the Senate and, of course, to the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u121	Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the rapporteur, and it will actually be two questions. [[Senator of the rapporteur.]] Just a brief introduction. I worked on this resolution concerning the 70th anniversary and these words of genocide, these 2 words did not speak directly about genocide. Tell me, first of all, that kind of thing. This is a very serious, political resolution in a situation where we have meetings that Senator Rulewski has already mentioned. She's got a lot of weight. I want to know what it was like, because when I was working on the resolution, I had some kind of directive from the people responsible for the state. Was the adoption of a resolution from the Sejm the decision of the highest authorities of the PIS party? Is the adoption of this resolution today a decision of the highest PiS authorities, or is it just your initiative? Do you take responsibility for the consequences? I assume we all feel the same way about what you're saying, but we're only thinking politically. And the other. Is there any way that you could... [[I wonder if...]] Please don't disturb me. When I'm done, I'll let you talk to me. And the other. Please state the definition of genocide. I ask you to do this because this word is a word used in the legal language around the world and it has a very serious legal meaning, and maybe some of your colleagues do not know what effect it can have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, By combining my unanswered opinion on the question of your predecessor, your senator, with the answer to your question, Senator, I will say that without a doubt the 70th anniversary of the Volyn slaughter would be a better opportunity for this ambiguity to appear in the resolutions of the Sejm and the Senate. But I don't want to scratch my wounds here. It is known that in 2013 the climate among decision-makers was different than it is today, and hence this resolution is today and not on the 70th anniversary. And of course, just as you debated on the 70th anniversary, so today, when we are debating, we have a question behind our heads about the political circumstances in which we live. This present day, also the NATO summit, which is in the coming days, is the present which, of course, we are analyzing and confronting. And I have to say, Mr. Senator, I hope you're right that this resolution will mean a lot, that is. that it will reach political authorities in the Ukrainian state and that in this neighbouring and friendly country people will come to the floor, who will say very clearly that the modern Ukrainian people, if they want to become And we Poles very much want politically to do so in the case of the Ukrainian people. An ally, the closest ally of the North Atlantic Pact, if he wants to become a party approaching his standards also ethical, moral standards of the European Union, he must meet the conditions of the coast, and this is precisely a shore condition. that he would not worship or worship people who had blood on their hands. Blood in this case Polish, so only Poles have such a direct obligation to insist on it. And this context is also important in this sense. It is important that the Polish-Ukrainian friendship is so fruitful that the Ukrainian people are able to enter the family of European nations. [[You haven't answered my question at all.]] [[Voice from the hall: O genocide...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] Oh, genocide. I'm sorry. I answered the first question, and the second one did not. I'm so sorry. Of course, the legal definition of genocide was developed by Professor Lemkin in 1945 in connection with a reality that had not previously been defined by lawyers, because there was no such phenomenon as genocide since World War II. There was a reality that had to be dealt with and described in a legal sense. And Professor Lemkin did it and wrote that genocide is the type of crime in which a crime is planned to be committed because of racial, ethnic, national origin of the entire nation or part of it in the territory concerned. That's what it sounds like, of course, from memory, that definition. And this crime is not subject to statute of limitations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u124	Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I am referring to Senator Klich's question, because the position of the Polish Episcopate at the committee meeting was not mentioned, but I, on the basis of my amendment, mentioned the appeal of the Holy Father John Paul II about mutual reconciliation and declaration of the episcopate, the Kiev episcopate and the Greek Catholic Church on the 70th anniversary. And please answer in the context of these resolutions why you did not agree at the committee meeting to note that: The Senate of the Republic of Poland considers it a deliberate continuation of the work of reconciliation and dialogue initiated by political and clergy leaders. Because you specifically blocked it as a representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, as I recall, this discussion was dynamic, and I have spoken on this issue several times. Well, I don't think you're gonna be able to put that one word in the right direction. Let me remind you that your amendment... I was asked to comment on her, and I pointed out that from my point of view First of all, as a historian, but also, of course, as a senator. Your amendment had one clear flaw. The flaw was that she was breaking up the whole thing... [[But I concentrated it as part of an autocorrection.]] I'm talking about dynamics now. You say that, you go back to the last phase, and I'm talking about the first phase. And in this first phase I said that all the sentences that are contained in this amendment I can sign everyone's name, of course, these are true and appropriate sentences. In the course of the discussion, however, the concept was won... I did not have the right to vote there, therefore I did not participate, but I stated, as I remember, both the arguments for and against this amendment. The result was an attempt to find consensus. He relied on it. At least from my perspective, that was the most important thing. I want us to agree on the last part of your amendment. In this passage, you have rightly urged, in my opinion, that this resolution should be strengthened by calling on the authorities of the Republic of Poland and Ukraine to seek reconciliation on the most important issues concerning both nations. I suggested adding a refund on these key issues, i.e. relating to the content of the resolution. This has not been done, and from my perspective, among other things, this amendment was rejected by the Senators of Law and Justice. [[But I asked, Mr. Senator, about reconciliation, about the continuation of the work of reconciliation...]] That was part of the amendment. [[No, it was a separate sentence. A separate sentence.]] [[Voice from the room: He's already answered.]] Yeah, but... [[But, gentlemen...]] I said that under every sentence...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u127	Gentlemen, there's a question and there's an answer. There was a question. There was an answer. Now Mr. Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u128	I would also like to ask you why the second amendment that was tabled by Senator Piotr Ziientarski on behalf of our club was considered inappropriate and rejected. It talks about the need to strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the Republic of Poland and Ukraine in the most important matters for the future of the nation. [[Yeah, that was...]] No, just now the senator asked for an appeal for reconciliation, why it was rejected, and I would like to ask why a fundamental matter from the point of view of our country's security, namely the strengthening of cooperation between Warsaw and Kiev, was not recognised by the committee. Explain to me why. [[Mr. Marshal, but the honorable committees have the right to vote... after all, it was the people who voted...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u129	Let's not judge the questions, Senator. Mr. Senator, I didn't give the floor. You can come in. There's a question. There's an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u130	Of course, Mr. Marshal. I think that the stakeholders themselves who tabled these amendments and voted in favour and against will know better than me why they voted so. As I said: from my perspective, this sentence which the senator quoted was most appropriate, provided that it was added to the most important ones. So it would be a recognition that these are the cases that we are taking in the resolution that belong to the most important package, and not to the outside of the resolution. There was a disagreement here, with this discrepancy we remained, and that was the result of the vote. I think it's a good way to say it, a sense of sensitivity... [[I mean, all of them...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u131	Okay, gentlemen, but let's not discuss this any more, just a question and an answer. I don't know why Senator Jan Rulewski is leaving because he's the next question... It's Senator Zdzisław Pup now. [[I still want one.]] You're saved, Mr. Marshal, a little patience. [[Janek! Janek, you're asking a question!]] Now you're Senator Zdzisław Pup. [[Me?]] No, now you're Senator Zdzisław Pup. You had time and didn't ask a question. I'm sorry. Senator Zdzisław Pupa. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In a minute, sir. Come on, Mr. Senator... Senator Zdzisław Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u132	Mr. Senator, by listening to the questions asked by the representatives of the Civic Platform, I have the impression that this draft resolution, which was prepared and submitted to the Senate, is kind of against the Ukrainian people. Therefore, I have this question for you: do you see any negative effects of this resolution in bilateral relations with Ukraine? And is Ukraine going to take any action that will bring closer and improve relations between our countries by some understanding of our harm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u133	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that this resolution will strengthen the dialogue, which is, of course, very difficult between Poles and the elite of the Ukrainian people, this political elite. And there is nothing to hide, dialogue between Poles and Ukrainians, the real one, not the fascinated one, not created by propaganda language, is a very, very difficult dialogue. I can tell you that, as part of actions related to so-called difficult questions, a whole set of scientific conferences conducted by Polish and Ukrainian historians was launched. Mr. Zbigniew Gluza's resort was organizing, 11 volumes of materials were created, and if we looked into the first volume and then to the eleventh, we could see where this dialogue was headed. Right down there. Because it turned out that the closer we got, the more we drifted away from each other. And this is the truth about many aspects concerning the history of Poles, Poland and the history of Ukraine and Ukrainians. If we pretend otherwise, we will not go through any river that clearly brings us closer to what we call reconciliation. The Ukrainian side must receive the truth from the Polish side, as we receive it from them. The Ukrainian side is doing what it thinks is appropriate to place the statues of Bandera. And this is their right as today's Ukrainian nation. And we tell them: grow up to not bet on flagship, you have your heroes elsewhere, such as the righteous who saved the Poles. These were the husbands who were supposed to kill their wife Polka on orders... [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry... Well, we're going too far. Excuse me.]] That's the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u135	I'm sorry, but can you... Mr. Jan Rulewski. There you go. That's how we do it: the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And I'm sending a request to your marshal. [[Me? A request? Oh, no, it's not right now...]] It's connected to this case. The rapporteur admitted that there was no representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the committee work. And this resolution kind of goes beyond the internal borders of the Polish state. The Constitution says foreign policy runs the government and possibly the president. So it becomes clear that the Senate cannot proceed without being familiar with the government's position, because there is no awareness of it. In the second explanatory memorandum I refer here to Senator Łyczak and other Members who took part in the trip to Ukraine... [[Senators.]] Yes, the senator and other members of the PiS Group. The ambassador was asked a question about the draft resolution... [[But, Senator, are you asking the senator a question right now?]] Yeah, it's related to that as a justification for my request. [[Well, here's the question, Mr. Senator.]] But don't interrupt, because I'm just saying the last sentence, and it has something to do with the case. Members asked the ambassador of Poland in Ukraine the question of what effect this or another resolution may have. Then the ambassador, i.e. a representative of Poland in Ukraine, replied: very negative, very negative reactions, it is not advisable to take it at this moment. And that's what I'm asking for. But before the request is fulfilled, which I believe is because the marshal has a great deal of understanding in these matters, I would like to ask the senator a question relating to the text. Senator, do you not overinterpret historical facts when you answer the question of reconciliation, recalling the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops? Well, before this letter came into existence, Do you confirm that? There have been repeated talks between the Episcopate representatives and the letter following an agreed position. Don't you, Senator, put the cart in front of the horse? First you call a letter or a resolution, and then you try to agree. And a derivative question. Are you... [[But, Mr. Senator, that's...]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry... [[Well, Mr. Senator, you apologize and you say three or four minutes. And in the rules...]] I'm not sorry, sir. I'm sorry. [[Oh, we're not? Senator, there's a minute to ask a question, and you've already crossed that time three times.]] Last sentence. Are you familiar with... You say it's a foundation. Friendship... [[Later, in the debate, you can speak.]] Are you familiar with the environment in Ukraine that this resolution will adopt in your sense?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u137	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The letter of Polish bishops to German bishops was recalled by your colleague Senator Klich, not me. But undoubtedly this letter was written primarily among the sovereign bishops and archbishops and Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, i.e. among the Episcopate of Poland. This sovereignty was, if this word can be used, unlimited, but integrated into a wider context: the Second Vatican Council ended. But this did not reduce the degree of sovereignty of Polish bishops, who wrote this letter as just members of the Polish Episcopate. As for this resolution, I have no doubt that it should not be compared at all, in terms of mode, with anything else in Poland's history, and especially with the letter of Polish bishops to German bishops, for various reasons it is not worth it and should not be compared too hastily. But I hope, although this is not the main purpose of this resolution, that, as Senator Fedorowicz said, it will also reach Ukrainian environments. However, undoubtedly the most important recipient of this resolution is the Polish nation, including border families. As the senator said in his question, very right and legitimate, it is above all us, as Sejm and Senate, parliamentarians, in this case the Senators of the Republic of Poland, who have a debt to our own people and not to external nations. We see them in the background, a very important background, but the resolution is addressed to Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u139	Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u140	I have two questions: one formal question concerning 2 of our chambers, and one political question. The formal question is... the Sejm and the Senate don't form unity. There is no concept in the Constitution of the Parliament, there are separate Sejm and Senate. In this case, the resolution, which is yours, asks the Sejm for some behavior, certain behavior. I think this is unacceptable. It's against the constitution. And besides, I wouldn't want the Sejm to turn to the Senate in a resolution for any specific behavior. That's two separate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u141	You wanted a resolution like this that was directed to the president. For six months, you wanted a resolution like this. Well, Senator Klich has been pushing her for six months. [[I'm talking about two chambers...]] He's been pushing her for six months. Are you changing your mind, Mr. Marshal? Well, I'm sorry to comment on that, but I couldn't take it anymore. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] I can't stand this political hucky anymore. [[...but I think...]] I couldn't take it anymore. For six months, you wanted a resolution addressed to the president. Targeted, Mr. Marshal! [[Mr. Marshal, who likes who, but you should hold back...]] [[It was an outrage.]] It was a scandal, that's what. Thank you very much for saying that, sir. Thank you very much. [[...from these kinds of comments.]] I agree with you. It was a scandal. Which you didn't know about, Senator Klich. [[I told you not to support him. I told you.]] [[We'll expand the order...]] [[And I answer to the marshal: the president is executive. He's not a legislative authority.]] And you can direct, command...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u142	And that's a formal question, one. Second question, political question. You said that the recognition of genocide by the Ukrainian side is a shore condition. Do you, in this regard, consider... 'Cause there's gonna be a NATO summit coming up. Ukrainian. Do you think this is a shore condition for Ukraine's admission to NATO? Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, regarding the above-mentioned sentence on the request that the Sejm establish July 11th... a question be asked to the Legislative Office. The legislator considered that this is a sentence that does not have any legal defect. The Senate has the right, so there was no problem here. So much for answering the formal question. And as for the second question, the substantive question, about the really political issue, I can say: As a senator, by all means, but as Senator Jan Żaryn, I undoubtedly consider this to be a shore condition, even if today the Ukrainian party does not understand this condition. As I have said, in my opinion, the Ukrainian state cannot count on entering any European structure, bringing with it doctrine, gloating doctrines. In this case, the Doncowa was based on the racist doctrines of Adolf Hitler. It's just that it's objective. And I hope that doesn't change. But, of course, I am not a man headed by NATO or the European Union. But I hope that this issue will not change.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u145	There's already been an answer. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u146	Second question. If there is no opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it means that at this moment the Senate of the Republic of Poland It is possible that I too, if I vote in favour of this resolution It assumes responsibility for the repercussions that may arise from this resolution at the time when Ukraine is at war with Putin. [[Voice from the hall: Next World War.]] [[And the Sejm wouldn't take it.]] So, uh... This is gonna be very important to me because I was running the bill... And my family was also at a loss... And I know what I'm talking about. Mr. Senator, you can't say in advance about some country that some country doesn't understand. You just said that. Well, in a normal political situation... [[Question! Question, Mr. Marshal!]] In the normal situation of political dialogue, certain issues which may have very serious consequences during the war period in Ukraine should be agreed so that they may collapse. Were they agreed with the Ukrainian party or not? That's my question. [[What are you talking about? What are you talking about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u147	Okay, thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, please mind your own business...]] [[But what are you talking about?]] [[...and I've got mine. If you don't understand simple things, don't talk.]] [[You don't understand. You have three minutes...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. I'm calling... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm calling a 20-minute break. Time-out until 5:05 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 44 to 17 minutes 06]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich asked a question before the break. Senator, I'm asking for your answer. Do you want the senator to repeat the question? [[Yes. Please repeat the question.]] You're not here... No, you're a senator. Sorry. [[You're a senator.]] You were out of your jacket. I didn't recognize you. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u148	Mr. Marshal, thank you for not paying my attention. I'm sorry, my colleagues, who have been paying attention to me... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Microphone.]] ...but I can't stand the attention of someone unless they're marshals. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I'm getting ready...]] I would very much like my words and questions to be taken very seriously this time. I repeat, then. If there is no opinion of the Foreign Ministry, then there is no opinion of the government. This resolution may have very serious political repercussions in connection with the war in Ukraine and the joy of Putin for this reason. Isn't it the senators' responsibility for this mess? I'm asking because... I'm going to vote for the resolution on the crime and the Katyn massacre, but if this resolution is going to cause... [[Volynska.]] Volynska... [[But it's a good slip.]] I'm sorry, but my mother was a Katyn widow... [[That's a good slip.]] Mr. Marshal, unfortunately, this was not considered genocide by Strasbourg... [[Yes, sir.]] ...which is awful for me. [[Both are.]] My question has already been answered. Will we bear this responsibility or not if the government does not take this responsibility? The public from unknown sources knows that this has been taken off the agenda of the Sejm, not that 5 different resolutions... This case has been taken off the agenda of the Sejm for this week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u149	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u150	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, what can I say? We as senators always take responsibility for the resolutions taken, the laws adopted. Also this time as sovereign people, senators we make decisions and take responsibility for them. Yeah, we always take on that responsibility. [[I'll add my last word, if you don't mind. But there's something called state rations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u151	But, Mr. Senator, there's no... [[Thank you.]] There's a question. There's an answer. Senator Klich is making a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since this project can have far-reaching political consequences for our foreign policy and for our security, and according to the Constitution, the government of the Republic of Poland is responsible for foreign policy, I formally submit, according to the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 paragraph 4 of our Rules of Procedure, to postpone this discussion until the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is obtained either in writing or in the form of a declaration by the Minister of Foreign Affairs from the same majority as the applicant The question of whether this resolution will not jeopardize Poland's interests on the international stage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u153	Thank you very much. Senator Martynowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm filing the counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u155	Thank you very much. So we're going to vote on Senator Klich's formal motion. Very... [[Senator Jan Rulewski: Mr. Marshal, there was still my request.)]] But, Senator, you didn't file a formal motion. It was... [[A request may be made.]] You can ask, but you don't always have to do it. [[Stop it, Rulewski.]] A formal conclusion is always to be voted on. And it is at this point that we are voting on the formal proposal. [[It's in writing.]] Who is in favour of Senator Klich's formal request to postpone our debate until the Foreign Ministry has given its opinion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. 70 senators voted in favour, 23 against 45, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Senator Klich's motion was rejected. The question is Senator Józef Łyczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was corrected because my name was mentioned in Senator Rulewski's statement. I declare that I did not participate in the trip to Kiev, and therefore I could not take a position or... [[He's lying. Rulewski's lying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u157	Thank you very much. [[Not against it. It's in the context of the ambassador's statement.]] So it was just a correction. Good. Now, here's the question. Senator Andrzej Bear. You're welcome. [[I don't...]] [[I'm sorry.]] No? And I've got it written down. Senator Grażyna Shark. No? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Anyway... [[Yeah, yeah.]] Yes. Uh-huh.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u158	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Although I must say, unfortunately, you've made my speech a little more sharp over the break. But, unfortunately, I have to refer provoked by some, I dare say, unworthy comments, among others. about people like me who lost my entire family in Volyn because she was murdered by Ukrainians. Since we are in the convention of questions, please tell me which paragraph and which sentence I can invoke, which record, so that I can finally find the remains of my loved ones. I know it's not pretty, but, ladies and gentlemen, if you could hear yourselves, hear what you're saying to us... It probably hurts twice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u160	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. This is: Many of them still have not seen a worthy burial and commemoration.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u161	Good. Thank you. No further questions... [[I have a question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] You didn't volunteer, gentlemen, but I'll write down three names. Senator Wach was the fastest. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u162	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the wording of the draft resolution based on historical truth It's a genocide. I'm talking about the historical truth. [[Thank you very much...]] And what I'd like to say is... I understand that this is a very difficult case. The historical truth is probably not what the Ukrainians call it. In general, it seems to me, only after some position of international tribunals, after a challenge can something be formally regarded as historical truth. But explain to me what it's like.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Dear High Izbo! As I said, it is a resolution addressed primarily to the Polish people, not to the Ukrainian people. And referring by your senator to the fact that it will not be understood, in my opinion, is no reason to deny the meaning of that sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u165	Thank you. Mr. Senator Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u166	Senator rapporteur, on what basis did you prove that you were murdered, according to historical truth, one hundred and tens of thousands of Poles? Is it based on the book of Siemaszków or some other book? I know the other numbers. They're saying it was 60,000 people. That was the first question. As part of... Also tell me how many Ukrainians were murdered in retaliation. Were there any situations like this? [[That's not the subject.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This issue will be addressed by the Parliament in Kiev.]] Third question. Are there any commemorations of these murders in Poles in the territory of the present Ukraine? If so, where? [[Pieniecka Hut...]] Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u167	Okay, but... [[And that's all, three questions.]] ...it was a question for the senator. I understand your marshal is done. It's a minute and a half. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The estimates are indeed very different. At least 60,000 Poles, in the vast majority, or citizens of the Second Republic of Poland, were most likely killed in Volyn itself. But as far as the entire south-eastern border is concerned, these numbers are undoubtedly about 160 and 200 thousand and more. Researchers are definitely facing the problem. Both the Ukrainian and the Polish sides should, sooner or later at the research level, undertake such a far-reaching penetration of this territory so that an appropriate number can be determined. We're on our way for now. The issue of retaliation is not very consistent with the subject of this resolution. I would very much like to talk about what these retaliation actions were like. In turn, the number of places such as Pieniacka Huta or Ostrówek is certainly increasing every year. These names were also mentioned loudly by the PiS senators Where this memorial is and where this honor takes place; we are very happy about it. This is an expression of the will to create Polish-Ukrainian relations based on respect for the most basic system of values, among others. That the victims have the right to a decent burial. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u169	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. In fact, it's not just a question for you, it's a question for the entire Senate, but I'm going to refer it to your professor. I read in the Republic of Poland that in Kiev two avenues were named in the decounization, one by the name of Bandera and the other by the name of Shuchevych. Will our call, when it's finished and accepted, stop this kind of promotion of those names that shouldn't be?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u171	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have to repeat: everyone does what they think is appropriate. The Polish nation adopts resolutions commemorating victims of genocide, the Ukrainian party has the right to perform its own political gestures, also symbolic ones. Let us hope that we will find such a moment in the history of our nations, in which we will be able to clearly convey these historical truths to ourselves and tell ourselves what is the way to the right future.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u173	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, less than 3 months ago, the Senate almost unanimously adopted an important, beautiful resolution concerning Nadiji Sawchenko, in which we applied for her release, recognising that it was a symbol of the struggle of the free world with self-defence. Today, when I entered the Senate, I met Mrs. Sawchenko leaving the Senate. Because she's... she was a representative of Ukraine in the Council of Europe, that's why I know her, so I asked her what the reason for her being here is. She said it was mostly about that resolution. I would like to ask if there have been any attempts by Mrs Sawchenko to talk, I don't know, with the authors, with you on this subject. Have any contacts been made, and if so, what did they look like?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u175	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u176	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, there were no contacts that could be called a conversation between Mrs Nadia Sawchenko, whom we respect very much and honor. And you're right. In Poland, and me or anyone who was the initiator of this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u177	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u178	I apologize to Senator Łyczak for using his name in the debate. He told the truth, he wasn't present. But there were other senators present, among others. very respected by me Marshal Bielan Who were recipients of the ambassador's opinion that this kind of act... [[They're similar, so you could have made a mistake.]] But I'll get to the question. Senator rapporteur, you probably listened to the opinion, the appeals of your colleagues, among others. Prime Minister Szydło, who called on everyone on the political stage to face two important events The NATO Summit and World Youth Days avoid irritations. Today it is proof that irritation is. Don't you think it's appropriate that if you don't want to listen to the Platform anymore, you should listen to your friend Szydło? [[It doesn't bother you. It cleans the situation.]] [[But you're not listening...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u180	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, we listen as senators to the Prime Minister's words. However, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission on the draft resolution, this name was not mentioned once.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u181	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u182	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, two short questions. Is the author of this text written by Professor Senator, or are there more authors among senators? If you don't mind, I'd like to ask for the names of these authors. That's the first question. And second question. Did the senator know if he didn't know, and if he knew, then why... There was a beautiful meeting of the Polish-Ukrainian team with Nadija Sawchenko today at 2.30 p.m.... [[Voice from the room: We had a committee meeting.]] Please? We've been involved... Many Members from Law and Justice attended this meeting. I will discuss this meeting as part of the debate. Too bad the senator wasn't at that meeting. The question is, was there knowledge and there was no desire?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u183	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u184	Mr Marshal, the meeting of the Legislative Committee began at 2.25 p.m. and I was rapporteur. This would therefore be a lack of culture on my part if I had not come to the meeting of the Legislative Commission. The author of this draft resolution, the original author, as I said, was Michał Dworczyk. And I remind you of this person, because without a doubt a great glory... that we are debating this resolution. [[Then keep an eye on the Sejm. Let him push through the Sejm.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u185	Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u186	I'd like to ask, Mr. Marshal. Since Mr Dworczyk was the author, it is such a question: did he also say that I would say so to myself, addressing the Sejm, asking for the commemoration of the victims and the establishment of the 11th of July as a day for the memory of the victims, or is this our authorship?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u187	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u188	If I may, please release me from the obligation to talk about which expression is written by Michał Dworczyk, and which expression or comma is written by senators. To answer the senator's question, I said that the basis of this resolution was the text by Michał Dworczyk. And he borrowed that text. Because we are in a civilized country, in Poland, in our beloved homeland, we do not use his texts without the permission of the author. That's the kind of consent we've received.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u189	Thank you very much. You're still Senator Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u190	Mr. Senator, I'd like to point out... Have you noticed any factual inaccuracies? Why the years 1939 and 1945, not 1947, although these clashes, situations, etc... This continued for some time after the war, until 1947 at least in our current territory. And that's the first question: didn't you see that? Second question. Did you not notice that when you write that it is the seventy-third anniversary of the wave of crime in the Eastern Kreses, which was committed by the organization of Ukrainian nationalists UPA and SS Galizien... Don't you know that the SS formation of Galizien was established much later, seems in 1944? [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u191	You can, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u192	As far as the first question is concerned, the years 1939 and 1945, of course... Ukrainian crimes on Poles began exactly in September 1939. We have historical sources on this subject. The year 1945 was considered by us to be more appropriate than any other, because it involves activities in the Podkarpackie district and the Lublin Poak formations until the creation of the Association of Freedom and Independence on 2 September 1942. It was only free and independence that talked to the CNS UPA underground to stop fighting each other. We therefore consider 1945 to be the year of the end of genocide.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u193	Thank you very much. I don't see any more calls. [[Senator Rulewski reporting.]] I didn't see it. Senator Jan Rulewski, please. [[I can ask a lot of questions...]] [[You haven't answered my second question about SS Galizien.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz is still begging for an answer to the second question, but for now, Mr. Senator Rulewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u194	Mr. Senator, the truth is that the Senate has already adopted two different resolutions. Don't you think we're making fun of the authors? The point is that we define these events differently in one or another resolution. How are they supposed to read the recipients of this homage? In one resolution we say that some victims have been honored, that is, many victims... and we say what you ignore in yours: that dialogue can only be built on the truth and common condemnation of crime. Question: Which resolution is closer to you? Is there gonna be a common condemnation of crime or not, if there's gonna be reconciliation?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u195	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think we're embarrassing ourselves, on the contrary, Senator. I'd like you to interpret my opinion in accordance with your will. As for the SS question, it was undoubtedly one of those formations that were created during World War II in 1939 and 1945.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u197	Thank you very much. I don't see any more, now I really don't see anyone who's willing. Thank you very much, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Gawl. Senator Robert Gawel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject is extremely difficult and, of course, arouses vivid emotions, but I think that after 27 years since the overthrow of communism in Poland it was time to talk about historical truth, as it looked like it. All the more so because I listened to the deliberations of the Legislative Commission today, where most senators did not have any problems with the fact that what was written there was the use of the word "humanicide" is in line with historical truth. Józef Szujski wrote about false history as a master of false politics. And today we should consider whether avoiding certain topics in relations with Ukraine is good for the Polish-Ukrainian issue. On 11 July 1943 a Ukrainian sotnia entered the village Witoldówka near Porycka, which was going to completely pacify this village, a settlement in which Polish families, including Czech families, lived. Thanks to a young Ukrainian boy, a very large part of the population managed to escape, including my mother and father, with her siblings. They saved lives. Sadly, another part of the family, others were unlucky, died cruelly. In 2003 with my uncle, who was 11 years old in 1943, I went to visit these areas. We lived in Ukrainian homes. Many of the conversations we had with these people were basically one question: why did this happen? The subject of the resolution, which we are adopting, is not to discuss the history of Polish-Ukrainian relations throughout the... How many years? 100? 300? After all, this is a huge period of Polish-Russian, then Ukrainian contacts. The source of what happened in Volhynia and Galicia is ideology which was so degenerate that it did not give Poles in these areas any chance, the smallest. I talked to an old Ukrainian woman and I said, "Why didn't you throw those Poles out of here?" Why was this crime there so methodically carried out, with such a great degeneration? And she said, "No Lach will ever come back here again." And of course she resented that in the Second Republic they felt like citizens of the worse, second category etc. But is there an excuse for such a crime? I think that today in the Polish Parliament, in the Senate, we should not discuss the etymology of the word, to look for what the word "humanicide" means, because every adult who sits here knows what it means. Let's not ask such questions. The time has come for the representatives of the Polish people who are here to say: yes, it was genocide. Brothers of the Ukrainians, think about your history. We won't write it to you like you won't write our story. But you need to know about one thing: in free Poland there will never be permission to accept criminals who have led to such an extensive action of extermination of the Polish, Jewish, Armenian, but also Ukrainian, because UFA criminals also murdered Ukrainians. This isn't the time for historical argument today. Today is the time to tell the truth after 27 years. It is not that something terrible will happen in Ukraine; if anyone knows the relations in Ukraine, then he well knows that this nationalism, which is there today, is particularly strong in the area of western Ukraine. Today, young people who come to Poland or watch Polish TV are looking at these issues completely differently. I think that the adoption of this resolution... Maybe we won't convert the Ukrainians to the way we want to think about history, but at least today, thanks to the Senate, the people of the Republic of Poland. A few million Poles who lost their family nests in the East They will find out that the Republic is asking for the truth, because that is all we want. After all, when we sit here, we wish the Ukrainians well. We would like Ukraine to become more and more integrated with Europe. But you can't run a serious and true policy that's planted on false history. They were asked about the memory sites. There's a lot of them. One of them's in Porky, next to Witoldówka. In 2003, President Kuczma and President Kwasniewski unveiled a monument in the Ukrainian cemetery to remind them of these events as a memorial. And next to it the Polish cemetery was played quickly, the remains of Poles were exhumed from the surrounding Kurhans and a great cross was placed there. I'm here. There are names, among others. My mother's uncles, Helena Zakrzewicka and her five daughters, the youngest of whom were 6 months old and the oldest 18 years old. They died because they were Polish. When my uncle drove into the yard, he saw ducks bathing in blood. Do not be surprised, then, that there was retaliation. That's how it is. The Polish state has never, in any dimension, planned any ethnic crime, which was unfortunately done by the CNS, and Donco's ideology was ill. I wish we could do it today. - Yeah. - how we can conduct foreign policy, historical policy before all others towards Germany and Russia, we can claim every word - I'm serious about talking to the Ukrainian people. The policy of avoiding literal statements in recent years has not been successful. We observe the rise of nationalism and dislike for Poles, and we approach with open arms... Ukrainian companies can operate in Poland, and ask whether the other way is the same. Believe me, I wish the Ukrainians well, but you can't build history on falsehood. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would also like to thank my fellow senators for allowing me to speak now. This will not be a statement on behalf of the club, it will be a very personal statement, and I ask you to treat it as such. Because this will be the statement of a man who, in the name of Polish interest years ago, thought many years ago that it was necessary to do as much as possible for close-up between Ukraine and Poland. For the closeness between both nations, Ukrainian and Polish, in the name of our country's interests. We're not talking about Ukraine today. Today we are talking about Poland. Today we are talking about Polish historical policy, but we are also talking about the future of our country. Jerzy Giedroyc and Juliusz Mieroszewski are the authors of the thesis developed in Paris for many years, which is close to me and many people, that there is no independent Poland without independent Ukraine. There is no independent Poland without independent Ukraine. Because behind our Polish and Ukrainian backs is always lurking, or at least since the 17th century, the third one, who waits only until in our relations there is a rift in which he can enter. And so it was during the terrible events in the 17th century, during the Uprising of Chmielnicki, when Chmielnicki decided to sign the Perejaslav union, the conclusion of the Perejaslav union. This union was the first moment when Russia took advantage of the internal conflict in the territory of the First Republic and took control of Ukraine as a whole. Then the situation turned a little bit, there was a division of Ukraine into two parts The remainder remained with the Republic, but some irreversibly lost the Republic. The third one benefited from this. And so it is now, and so it will be in the future. This third is the rulers of the Kremlin. And although it is probably a little different to formulate this principle of Giedroycia and Mieroszewski today, when Poland is a member of NATO, when Poland is under the umbrella of the European Union, and Ukraine is not, and rather it is necessary to say that there is no safe Poland without independent Ukraine, this thought is still valid. This thought was valid during the Orange Revolution, when Boris Tarasiuk and his colleagues organized a speech by the Foreign Minister in the Sejm. This Boris Tarasiuk, who then appealed to us Poles, to help the Ukrainians who were breaking into independence. The same was true for us in the European Parliament when we dressed in orange during the orange revolution, we wore orange shirts to show that we are on the side of those who are fighting for true independence in Ukraine. And this was probably the same for me years ago when, as Minister of Defence, I presented with a project to create a Polish-Lithuanian-Ukrainian brigade, so that it would be a magnet that attracts Ukraine to the Alliance. Now this brigade is almost a fact. Now this brigade is a tool that we can use in the name of the Polish state right, in the name of the Polish national interest. Senator Żaryn, while saying that it was his opinion, said something that undermines the whole philosophy of foreign policy carried out over the past twenty years here from Warsaw. Well, he said that recognition of the Volyn crime is a prerequisite for Ukraine's accession to NATO and to the European Union. Well, if it were to happen that Ukraine would not come near the European Union and become a NATO member, that would mean that we would expose our subabdominals to the third. And that means that the third one could quietly, freely bust across Ukraine and approach our borders. Because Ukraine for Poland is a buffer, because Ukraine for Poland is actually a foreground. I don't question the need to remember, the need to remember. After all, our entire club was in favour of a resolution in 2013, in favour of adopting a resolution commemorating the slaughter of Volyn. Half my wife's family was murdered by Ukrainians. Half of my wife's family was murdered by the Ukrainians, but she also does not question that cooperation between Poland and Ukraine is crucial for our safety, for the safety of Poles and Poles. Polish foreign policy since Skubiszewski was based on two legs, two pillars: on the one hand Commemorate to seek reconciliation; on the other hand, deepen cooperation as closely as possible to bring the two nations closer together. If we today concentrate on this resolution on just one pillar, on commemoration, and say nothing about the need for reconciliation The two bishops, Catholic and Greek Catholic, both of whom speak, speak intellectuals from Kiev, finally say part of the political class of Ukraine, a large part of the political class We're gonna cut our own legs. We're gonna remove the ground we're standing on ourselves. And that is why I would like to appeal, Mr. Marshal. Not in the name of the club, but in its own name. To the authors of the draft resolution, to take account of those amendments which were tabled by our club, and which were rejected, in particular these amendments which refer to the need for reconciliation between the Ukrainian and Polish nations as a condition of sine qua non good relations, but also the need to deepen cooperation at every level, in every area, due to Polish matters and our international interest. I really am calling for this. We will continue to submit these amendments and I ask that they be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u201	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm going to read a text that I'm sure you'll recognize. On 9 February 1943, a branch of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army attacked the village of Parosla First. 173 were murdered. Poles. The brutal action of the physical elimination of Poles was initiated, led by the Banderian faction of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization and the Ukrainian Uprising Army. The largest size took place in Volyn in July 1943. The sculptures and destruction of all traces of Polishness were continued until 1945 and their victims were about 100,000. Poles: men, women, children and old people. The organized and mass nature of these crimes and the atrocities associated with them give action the character of ethnic cleansing bearing the mark of genocide. After the release of the ties of communism, Poland and Ukraine have done much to overcome the difficult past. Jerzy Giedroyc and President Lech Kaczyński are among those involved in the reconciliation process in the first place. The ongoing historical and social dialogue organized together, among others, in Porycko (now Pawliwka) in 2003, Pałudom in 2006 and the Pieniacka Huta in 2009 allowed us to look at the common thousand-year history again. We do not forget that in the history of Polish-Ukrainian relations in the 20th century there were also events that did not bring Poland glory: unfair national policy of the Second Republic and accidents of Polish retaliation from the years 1943-1945. However, this must not mean forgetting, balancing or reducing the tragedy of those who were victims of the Volyn crime. Poles want reconciliation and friendship with Ukrainians. We're giving it a lot of evidence. True reconciliation, however, can only be built on the truth and common condemnation of crime. The Senate of the Republic of Poland pays tribute to all Poles who have fallen victim to mass murders in Volhynia and other areas, and believes that the memory of them should become a permanent part of Polish historical consciousness. The Senate of the Republic of Poland gives the highest honor to all Ukrainians who did not succumb to the atmosphere of terror at that time and risked their lives to help their Polish neighbours, giving them a helping hand at that terrible time. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its gratitude to those Ukrainians who in recent years have contributed to commemorating the crime scenes and allowing worthy burial of the victims. I've read it, ladies and gentlemen, completely... [[Applause]] ...to remind you, the text of the resolution that the High House adopted three years ago. This was also the subject of a deep and turbulent discussion at the time. But then 2 nations Because it is necessary to say that this is what happened in Poland, that we are as if 2 separate nations came to an agreement and adopted this text. It is published in the Polish Monitor, so it has the value of already existing reality. Senator Gawel spoke very touchingly about the history of his family. I'm sure we've all got something in the past, some kind of shit that's... Either on the side of Germany or on the side of the Russians or on the side of the Ukrainians... But after all, What are we talking about? We're talking about reconciliation. Because the source of all of this, all of this was nothing else, just like you said, ideology and nationalism. And in order to prevent that, Dear Senators and Dear Senators, let this resolution exist in our historical reality. Let's tell our kids how it was, but let's not create precedents for us to be different again. I'd be happy if this resolution today, caused by Senator Zarin here, our Senate didn't make it. This resolution exists. I don't even know if the amendments that my friend Klich was talking about are gonna be enough. That is my opinion, you may agree with him or disagree with him. But that's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u203	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're not moralists, we're ethics. We're politicians. And we should take into account, apart from the moral side, the results of our work, our appeals and our actions. We heard the text of the resolution three years ago, on the 70th anniversary... what happened three years later, which is now, today, that we have to adopt a new resolution? What happened? Are we rewriting history? Is there another approach to historical facts? I'll tell you what happened. Well, we are almost on the eve of the meeting of Ukraine, NATO, on the eve of the NATO Summit, where the new situation in this part of Europe will be discussed, where we will talk about what to do in connection with the fact that the power we are neighbouring with, Russia, has become an aggressive power, and this is a nuclear power, what to do with the aggression of Russia, which we are witnessing, aggression in Ukraine. Did this cause this activity of the initiators of this resolution? For me, the answer of Senator Zarin, who says that the recognition by the Ukrainian party, by the Ukrainian state of the concept of genocide, is a prerequisite for Ukraine to enter NATO... Do you want to change the policy of Polish governments? Not one, not the previous one, but... Ladies and gentlemen, during meetings with Russian politicians, also with the chairman of the Federation Council, who is the equivalent of the Senate... The chairman of the Federation Council, Mrs. Matwijenko, has asked me every time: why aren't you dealing with Ukrainian crimes, why aren't you talking about Ukrainians, that they've committed crimes? I said, "We're talking to the Ukrainians and we're putting this up, but Russia and I have different bills, so please don't make any suggestions about how we're supposed to settle things with the Ukrainians." Please disclose the rest of the materials relating to the Katyn crime, indicate where the bodies of about 600 soldiers of the Home Army were shot after the Augustow Oblast in June 1945. If you want to talk to us about historical matters, we have the subject of these discussions and we will talk to you about this, and with the Ukrainians we will talk about our relations, about Ukrainian crimes, but also about our retaliation actions. Mr. Senator, rapporteur, because you have deviated from the answer... Several thousand Ukrainians died in this retaliation action. And it can't be that we're banging the Ukrainians with a baton, and they're saying, "Well, there were actions where innocent people died, including women, children, old people." Polish retaliation efforts were on a smaller scale, but they were simply similar or the same as those of the other party. This kind of discussion is needed, but a joint discussion between Poles and Ukrainians. Hitting Ukraine on the head of the weaker one is not the solution at the moment. If anyone thinks that after this resolution the Ukrainians will enter into a discussion and change the names of the streets, they are wrong. In Ukraine there are many memorials of murders on Poles: these are monuments, these are cemeteries. You have to keep making them. ♪ And yet ♪ Although this is from a completely different period, the Orląt Cemetery in Lviv has been restored. But this requires dialogue, because Ukrainians are now hosts in this territory and will either want to create further commemorations or not. Recently, Marshal Karczewski and I were in Kiev at a trialogue, a parliamentary tripartite assembly in Poland. The following areas Ukrainian. And the President of the Supreme Council spoke to Marshal Karczewski: let us talk, but do not take any steps of this kind that will lead not to dialogue and agreement, but to the response of the stress forces in our country. So I thought... And I was surprised by today's initiative, I was opposed at the Bureau meeting to bring this resolution into order in such a way, surprisingly and abruptly. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that whoever these Polish-Ukrainian relations for us and for the Ukrainians will come to an agreement and to what historians call historical truth. But politicians shouldn't do anything about it, they shouldn't. And there can be a new resolution every few years. Is this the last resolution? It indicates July 11 as the National Day of Remembrance of Victims of Genocide by Ukrainian nationalists. Will it be a day of hatred for the Ukrainians, or will it be a day of reconciliation? I hope it's a day of reconciliation. Finally, Ukraine is subject to aggression, which questions Ukrainian statehood in general. And instead of understanding this situation and defending it, we are trying to strengthen relations with Ukraine. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I have no doubt that this resolution does not lead to reconciliation. It leads to various madness and such depth of nationalism, also on our part, not only from the Ukrainian side. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u205	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u206	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Everyone who lived or had a family in the End before World War II knows that July is a time of very painful memories and memories of all our compatriots murdered by Ukrainian nationalists. I stand before you and I am touched, but also grateful that we in the Senate want to commemorate these dramatic and tragic events that took place 73 years ago. Moreover, I am convinced that this is our duty. This is also very important to me personally, because my family has lived in this area for centuries. But it's also my tragedy, because most of my family was murdered by Ukrainian nationalists. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, Mr. Marshal.]] And they murdered them because my family spoke Polish, they murdered them for being builders of the Polish church, they murdered them for saying that Poland would always be there. And why would they murder children? To this day, I don't have an answer. And in my home, in our family, my father always told me from my childhood: this must never be forgotten. We did not live in Volyn, we lived in Lviv for over 600 years. It was hard for Poles, too. But I have to say right away that the fact that I'm standing in front of you... My closest family, my parents, and my brother, who was four years old, saved the Ukrainian. This is the paradox of that time and history. But as it shows, Dear Senators, this Ukrainian risked his own life. He knew that if UPA found out, the Ukrainians would cut him out after they cut out my family. And yet this heroic Ukrainian saved not only my family, but also many of my parents' neighbors. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I stand before you today and fulfill my will because my father always asked me to speak publicly, so today I say this in this respectable, distinguished group of our society. And today I have a moral right to say, "I, Władysław Komarnicki." However, these tragic events should be restored to the historical memory of new generations, but not to divide, just to remember and never to allow such events to happen again. Whether we like it or not, whether we have this mess or not, we must build a friendly relationship with our neighbours, which must be based, I agree with my predecessors, on trust, respect for the history and memory of the victims of those cruel times. It should also be remembered that many heroic Ukrainians gave their lives for helping our fellow countrymen. In the early 1990's, I went on purpose because my father asked me: "If you ever get a chance to go there, thank me." I personally thanked the deceased Ukrainian and his family. But it is also, Dear Senators, for all of us the teaching that every nationalism causes havoc in the minds and hearts of men. This is also a lesson for future generations. I am a man of dignified age and I believe that we must always look for what we have in common, not what divides us, that we must live with it, integrate ourselves, because we all want so much to be integrated in a common Europe. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u207	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important resolution. But I don't really understand the voices that, in the course of this debate, when we ask questions, we fall, the voices: well, maybe there was something terrible about our history, but we better forget about it, under the slogan of some false reconciliation. And such a kind of blackmail that if we remind ourselves of this, it means that we are part of Russian, German, American, any other policy, and we are damaging the Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation... This is hypocritical and hypocritical thesis because nothing is worth reconciliation that is not built on truth. This is the harm done to the Polish people, but also to the Ukrainian people. When we pretend... When monuments are erected in Western Ukraine to the Nazis who, as Ukrainians, served in the SS Galizien, war criminals who are worshipped as heroes, and we say we cannot remember our history, this is in fact a philosophy that says that Poland cannot be sovereign even in its historical memory, even in historical memory. And I would like to protest against such an attitude, because it is an attitude, in my opinion, hypocritical, to actually put a big line on painful and difficult, but fundamental to the history of the 20th century. There was talk of a list of Ukrainian intellectuals. I am the signatory of the answer, just like 200 parliamentarians of Law and Justice. I will quote a passage from this letter, which Mr Dworczyk presented. Dear Ukrainian Friends, thank you for the words addressed also to us Polish parliamentarians. We thank you for the declarations of friendship and community of goals in the future. We want to clearly address the concerns expressed in your letter. We fully acknowledge not only the value of the present Ukrainian statehood, but also the separate Ukrainian thought and act of independence. We regard the right and understandable fight of the Ukrainians for the right to free cultural and state development. The failure of Ukraine, but also of Poland, in the struggle for independence had dramatic consequences not only for both our nations, but also for the whole of Europe. The difference between us, however, is not about the past, but about contemporary historical memory policy. The problem is today's Ukrainian attitude towards the perpetrators of genocide carried out on Poles in the years of World War II. In Poland, at the state and local government level, we do not commemorate people who have the blood of innocent civilians on their hands. It hurts to choose the historical memory in which an open declaration of sympathy to Poland goes hand in hand with the glory of those who have the blood of our compatriots. The defenseless women and children. We cannot accept calling the planned and cruelly implemented action against the civilian population as the Polish-Ukrainian war. We see the heroism of the fight against the Soviet power imposed after the war, but we do not understand why the roots of this fight should be sought in actions directed against innocent women and children. We understand that Ukraine needs its history and its heroes, but for the future it is not indifferent to what past you choose. There has never been a real dialogue on this matter, there isn't and there won't be a good time. Many friends of Ukraine were silent about this because we were counting, and we still hope that mutual sympathy will lead to a breakthrough in this issue. Let our voice in this matter be part of the necessary reflection expressed in these days. With deep respect and understanding we treat the words of your apologies, we believe in their sincerity, feeling that they are not easy for you. This was part of the letter that Mr Michał Dworczyk sent to the Ukrainian brothers. And I would like to point out that on July 11, 1943, when this tragic action against Poland began... We do not blame the Ukrainian people for this, but the ideology and criminal Ounov-upist nationalism, which led to the fact that in the course of this genocide was murdered, I will no longer mention how, examples are described in history and known, and are extremely drastic innocent women, old men, priests, foresters. Historians count, it was over 100,000 people. They were murdered only because they belonged to the Polish people. For no other reason. Few, thousands of Jews were murdered, thousands of Ukrainians were murdered, who in the reflexes of normal humanity opposed these terrible crimes. Therefore, I believe that the creation of monuments to the apologists of Ukrainian nationalism is detrimental to the vision of a common Europe, is detrimental to those values that we want to live with, is also harmful to Polish-Ukrainian relations, but also to Ukraine itself. Therefore, this dialogue should be straightened out and should be implemented. I'm sure this dialogue is painful, but it's kind of sticky and pretending nothing happened. There have been misunderstandings in the past, even mass murders, but God forbid it wasn't genocide... Although this action meets the classic definition of genocide. In any case, covering this, under the pretext of political correctness in our mutual relations, is building on falsehood, is building a castle on sand that will not stand the test of time. This debate is listened to by a number of 15 million Poles, whose roots are on the Kresach, not only those from Ukraine, but also from the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania. In Poland there are about 15 million descendants of the inhabitants of Kresów. They are looking very closely at this debate, what we are doing. They hope that after years, during which this horrible crime was relativised, it was ignored by silence, and those who spoke of it were treated as if he were a mean Polish nationalist... This is simply the restoration of the truth about these events. And it is certain that the Senate of the Republic of Poland, elected in free democratic elections, takes a position on this matter. It has full formal law as well as full moral law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u209	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! So much has been said here, that actually every minute, every second I have corrected my speech, but I will start by trying to reflect the nature of these discussions, the spirit in which I perceive all that is the subject of today's proceedings and what is happening here. I, of course, fall into the philosophy that a nation that doesn't respect history dies. Memory, history should not be subject to political economics. I must say that it was with great pleasure that I listened to the position of the Senate of the Republic of Poland contained in the consensus read by Senator Rotnicka. He refers in a simple and obvious way to history, referring to the role played by criminals in relation to the Polish people. It also refers to important things in which... as Poles we participated in the harm that was done. And it is important that this document conveys the message of agreement. In turn, what I heard from Senator Jackowski... Mr. Senator, let me say briefly: to overcome evil with good... The senator's elegance is impeccable clothing and that's all. Mr. Senator... [[Thank you for the compliment.]] What I'm trying to say is, win evil with good. And therefore, I'm not going to say anything to hurt you after what you've been saying here. Mr. Senator, I'm addressing Senator Gawl. Okay, let me put it this way. It was a beautiful performance because it shows the tragedy of many people who lived... And we should remember this tragedy. And what's important is... With a story that should be a teacher of the future, you should not discuss, but history cannot be, Mr. Senator, a goal in itself. We are in a political forum where history is a certain element when making decisions and resolutions. Such resolutions and positions as you present should be formulated in discussions at some historical forum. The Senate should be balancing things, of course, based on the truth and memories that Senator Gaweł was talking about. However, this is a political forum that has huge implications for further action. And if from that bleacher, what did you say so beautifully to Marshal Borusewicz... You said that Ukraine's condition for accession to NATO structures is... And then there was the whole reason. Well, it's a very dangerous and evil thing. This isn't the direction... Today we have two resolutions, the one taken by the High Senate, including the Senators of Law and Justice... I didn't have time to see how he voted on that resolution that Senator Jackowski had already passed, but after the meeting, I'll check. So this resolution is a resolution that I do not agree with in part, but it was necessary to agree on something as part of the compromise. I, too, disagree with the record of genocide. Ladies and gentlemen, during various meetings there were often discussions about what genocide is. I'll tell you what Senator Żaryn mentioned. Rafal Lemkin introduced a definition of genocide, on November 26, 1968, the UN Convention... Alain Besançon gave the exact definition of genocide and it fits perfectly with what happened in Volhynia and other areas where these accidents took place. Someone else can argue with it, for me it's obvious: it wasn't like genocide or genocide, it was genocide. These are issues that we should be clear about in various forums, during discussions, historical workshops together with the Ukrainians in order to build the truth. Building common thinking on a common Europe... It's not like I'm gonna use slogans here. The common path of Poland and Ukraine towards the future is the right state. What is the state's point of view today? Who will be most excited about the kind of initiative we want to take here today? In my opinion, these are two environments: the nationalists in Ukraine, who will get wind in the sails and will operate even more intensively in Ukraine, even more to put monuments and names to the streets, and the Russians. These are the two environments that are most enjoying these kind of sharp political speeches. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the meeting. That's why I asked your senator about... it's a shame, Senator, that you weren't there. I understand there was a committee meeting. I don't think the committee would have lost anything if your senator hadn't been here, and it would have earned a meeting with Mrs. Sawchenko. Let me say this, briefly reporting on this meeting, which was very cool: there were no divisions between Poland and Poland and the other, i.e. Poland Law and Justice, and Poland Civic Platform. We talked to Nadia Sawchenko about the history of the future. Mrs. Sawchenko said... I've written down some important points, Senator. Maybe you could use this. Senator Jackowski already knows that. Also in historical activity. Mrs Sawchenko said that as a Ukrainian, she apologizes for everything that has happened when it comes to the evil done to Poles in Volhynia and other areas where murder and genocide took place. At the same time, she as Ukraine forgets what was retaliation, of course disproportionate to... She also knows it was, but she doesn't want to remember it anymore. Its task after returning to Ukraine is to start talks with the Ukrainian IPN to begin work on avoiding glorifying murderers, criminals, etc. This fantastic attitude, joint actions of Polish and Ukrainian IPN, Polish and Ukrainian historians are also an important element of the promotion of knowledge in Ukraine. Please accept that. I think the professor knows that. The Ukrainians have absolutely no knowledge of what was going on and who was guilty, so that this is a very important element. Is this resolution bringing us closer to this reconciliation? In our opinion, no. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked what had happened in the last three years? Elections? Are we going to take this problem harder and harder by the way? No, because those who are called Russians and those who are called Ukrainian nationalists will enjoy this kind of attitude. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will not go this way. And one last sentence. Two weeks ago, I attended a financial congress in Sopot, where there was a discussion about the future of Europe. Joschka Fischer said there such a significant sentence that Europe is facing a choice of two roads today. There's no third way. Either a Europe of nationalisms, or a Europe of cooperating states within the same values, etc. I'm not going to develop it anymore. The Polish state's reason is to include the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian state, in these values. And only if Poles and Ukrainians stand together against the problems created by Russia will it be a thing which is a Polish and Ukrainian state rhyme. So that I hope that, within the framework of all that will involve the future, you will withdraw from this draft resolution. And if she's to be taken on the occasion of the third, first or whatever election anniversary, Mr. Senator, let's sit quietly, just like that resolution. We discussed it for a long time and a long time. Let the band be formed, there will be historians, there will be the opinion of the Foreign Ministry... Don't do that, because it doesn't lead to anything. Therefore, I ask you very much within the framework of the consensus and everything that is called the reason of the state of Poland and Ukraine, that we withdraw from this draft resolution and return to it calmly within a time limit when it will be developed after common arrangements, also with various kinds of institutions. But, Senator, thanks again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u211	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, of which I am a member, I applied for the rejection of this resolution and justified it. I'm going to say this again now, although some of these reasons have already actually fallen down here. The subject, you know, is quite well-known and arguments repeat so that you will excuse me if I repeat some of the things after some of my previous speakers. The first thing is: or, for example, So next year, we're gonna make a resolution like this in two years or three years? I don't think so. Right? Why are we doing this now? I asked this at the committee meeting and Senator Żaryn replied with Bolshevik honesty that simply Law and Justice won elections and now wants to present their own resolution. Of course, it can be done only that in such matters, at least one should seek agreement both when it concerns internal, historical and when it has its external repercussions. Especially when it has external repercussions. Well, there wasn't even time for all that. The second question I asked was: why is it so late? After all, the fact that it was July 11 was well known before July 11th. Therefore, there was time to prepare the project. I want to say that the 2013 project was much earlier... [[June.]] [[It was passed in June...]] ...shown, handed over, and passed at all in June. Yes, sir. It was passed in June. Much earlier. And it was discussed. Here, at the last moment, such projects are being inserted, that of course it will be very difficult to agree on a position. So this is the point. second or second reason for which I have requested that this resolution be rejected. But let's just say that all of this would have been sooner and that this project would have come along. However... Ladies and gentlemen, as I hear Mr. Senator Jackowski, but not only does he say: Enough with the soaping of his eyes, enough with the blurring of the truth, you must finally tell me what the truth was... I don't get it. Three years ago, a resolution was passed. I no longer say that 13 years ago a joint resolution was adopted and the Polish Sejm, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was then a great achievement. In a way, I had my part in it, because that's when I was Marshal of the Sejm and I was leading the subject. 10 years later, a resolution was adopted, in which the case in which it was said:.murdered, brutal action of physical elimination of Poles led by the Banderian faction of Ukrainian Nationalists and Ukrainian Uprising Army, slaughter and destruction of all traces of Polishness, the organized and mass nature of these crimes and the cruelty associated with them. Ladies and gentlemen, who was hiding the truth here? There's no hiding here. There is no hiding in Poland. And on what basis is this compared to the Katyn lie? The Katyn lie was that official propaganda claimed that the Germans had committed this crime. Today there are still Russians, of course, who say so, but this is their case, although many Russians already speak differently and know what the truth is. It was a Katyn lie. In this case, there is no lie. We're talking about how it is, and we've even adopted it in a resolution. So please do not use the argument that this is the first time a resolution appears, which tells the truth, so whoever is against it is against the truth. It's just hard to get along like that. Now, here's the aspect. That's what I'd say. The political resolution. Who's she turning to? They say it's about honoring the helpless victims of these slaughters. But this honor has already been done, twice. So I guess that's not the point. But it's what Senator Żaryn was talking about. He said that the Ukrainians had to accept it, understand it, actually apologize, of course. So, in fact, this resolution is addressed not to the inside, but to the outside. We talked about who's gonna be happy about this. I'd like to deepen the subject. What is the situation in Ukraine today? This country is actually at war with Russia. This country is in a very difficult economic situation, it is undergoing very painful reforms; we know something about this from the time when we were carrying out reforms of Balcerowicz. There's a very serious faction out there today that practically wants to overthrow the government, stop reforms, and hug back to Russia. Former Party of the Regions Today's name is different. Unfortunately, at the moment, it plays a significant role, but fortunately it is not yet decisive. What do Russia and the former Party of the Regions say? Of course they say UPA, CNS, etc. They were fascists who didn't have the right to be there at all. More or less the same as us. Except when two say the same thing, it doesn't mean they think the same thing. Because we want Ukraine to be a democratic, friendly country, and they want it to be the opposite. They want her back to be a Russian satellite. Unfortunately, when we adopt such a resolution today, we hand them weapons. I can easily imagine that in a few days' time or a month's time, or two months' time, during the next debate in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they will draw out this resolution and say: 'Oh, please, what are you saying?' Your friends, Poles, write about genocide, condemn etc. You don't have the right to vote at all. In this way we make the Ukrainian situation more difficult. Now the question is: when will we finally reach an agreement with Ukraine? On what grounds? Well, first of all, I think that it is essential that we constantly strive to set up a group on difficult matters and, if we appeal, appeal to the President and the Government to take the initiative on this issue. - which would be an active group, not a dead group, and which would publish the results of its work. Because that's where you have to start, you have to start with historians, because our main task should be to make Ukrainian society: firstly, to learn about it, because very many people, as they say here, simply do not know it; and secondly, so that those who deny it from their memory, who do not want to accept it, get some reflection. But it requires very systematic work, gradual work... and it has to start with historians, not resolutions. This is the first direction. And heading two. I really don't need Ukraine right now. I'll tell you right away. This internal debate. At the moment, such an internal debate in Ukraine will only blow it up. Our task, the task of our allies, all those who can help Ukraine, is now to get her out of the state in which she is. She has to go on the path of growth, she has to go on the path of some social optimism. And then you can get back to the case. Today you have to say it, you have to say it at various conferences, in different places, etc., etc., not to adopt resolutions that are simply official resolutions. And finally, one more thing. This resolution also included the Senate's request to the Sejm that the Sejm establish July 11th as the National Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Genocide, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's how it was. 'Cause this is Senator Czarnobaj asking what it was like. He said that Mr Dworczyk came and threw it in. Then, when he threw it in, the subject was taken up and it was written in this form. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it's so interesting. Namely in today's Rzeczpospolita is an interview with the head of the Law and Justice Club, Mr Terletki. Mr Terlecek was asked the question: whether 11 July Will it be the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Genocide in Volyn? Mr Terlecki replied: "We remember July 11th, but we want Kresowians to be the Day of Remembrance for Passion on September 17th. It was after 17 September 1939 that many Poles died and suffered various sufferings from the Soviet regime, not only in this fratricidal war in Volyn and Eastern Małopolska. Many people want to fight Poland and Ukraine. Volyn's tragedy is now being used in Russia's interests. [[Voice from the room: True...]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, because I know from other sources that President Kaczyński is also in favour of this solution. I can't imagine President Terlecki having a different view than President Kaczyński. The question is: what is this about? [[Exactly.]] I'll tell you what's going on, I'll tell you what I think... Well, so far. And let it be said from this tribune, so to speak, and let it be recorded in one case, I agreed with President Jarosław Kaczyński, namely, like him, I very much like to watch the rodeo. But now I'm going to say that I totally agree with that here, totally. This is a strategic thought, because on September 17th, it's kind of pointing the case towards Russia... [[Yes, sir.]] ...and July 11th It's going to Ukraine. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Yes.]] And that's the difference. And now, ladies and gentlemen, where is this coming from? Well, I think that Mr Michał Dworczyk is simply pushing this issue, but he can't really push it there, in the Sejm, because the opinion of the president and the head of the club is different. [[He forbade him.]] So he came to the Senate. And that's what I'm sending to my esteemed piss buddies. And you are simply involved in this matter, because if the Senate makes such a resolution and it is written in it, then the Sejm will not be able to do otherwise. These are, ladies and gentlemen, internal games that I don't want to participate in as a live one. Rejection motion sustained. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u213	Thank you very much. Senator Żaryn. Welcome to the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll try not to repeat it, or at least not in the first sentence. Because a group on difficult matters, as Senator Borowski mentioned, is a very good postulate. During my questions and answers, I have already talked about one such attempt, which lasted several years, unfortunately, in my opinion, failed, because after 11 volumes, historians scattered home with divergent views on history. But there is no doubt that we need to return to difficult questions and difficult answers that are difficult for both sides. So that I will be very supportive of this request, which I heard from Senator Borowski's mouth. And as a Senator of Law and Justice, not an opposition club. But I would also like to tell you that I am very sorry to hear some of you say so. And I will say loudly and clearly why I feel this sadness, but I want to reassure you from time to time and say that, of course, this is not your intention. I don't want to suspect that there might be such an intention. But I have the impression that, in this room, we are actually discussing whether we have the right to be a free, independent nation, which is what we need, or whether we are to be constantly under the hierarchy of various kinds of blackmails, pressures, and these are about the weaknesses of the neighbouring nation, and these are about the strength of the neighbouring nation, and these are about the various kinds of political intricacies, present, past and future contexts. [[Voices from the room: No!]] [[Voice from the room: That's not the point.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, all of this is undoubtedly in our consciousness, what is in the current political reality. But above all, we are representatives of a free, sovereign nation, which clearly has the right to write in a unique form, even through the resolution of the higher chamber, the Senate, its authentic needs. For the border communities such a genuine need for many years has been this opportunity to tell the truth without a wedge. No blackmail wedge, no pressure on Giedroyc's doctrine, no politics of Skubiszewski. After all, we do not have all the sclerosis today, remember the 1990s, we know how the border environments could not get out with the truth about their experiences to the territory of the national community. And it's like we're staying in the same place today. I'm listening to you like I was in the '90s. And we thought it was And I hope we're on our way to full independence. That we regain, as a national community, the subjectivity. And therefore, since there is such a great trauma in our collective memory as the death of at least 160,000 people we remember... You yourselves here, presenting your own family stories, remember. 100 people in the Senate, and a dozen, maybe dozens of personal testimonies to survive. This really is a community experience, which shows how traumatic the experience of World War II was. And when are we supposed to be sovereign? In the future, when will all these addictions pass? Allegedly, it's gonna pass because there's gonna be more addiction. Sovereignty is not that you are involved in relationships, it is that you are free of dependence. You know about them, you remember them, you understand them, but you're still in a state of freedom, not slavery. And it really bothered me today that so many of you... For your intentions you are certainly not willing to be slaves, but somewhere in your thoughts, perhaps deep hidden, there is something that does not allow you to be free Polish politicians on the free Polish political scene. And political freedom is that we listen to the voice of our own people, and this voice we write in the form of resolutions, laws, because we are representatives not to hold each other and shake hands, but to represent the entire national community. That's why we're here. Please and I appeal for sovereignty, sovereignty of thought, sovereignty of actions. And one last thing. As we are all here, we are clearly in favour of the great Polish-Ukrainian political alliance. But that's how long, ladies and gentlemen, Russia Putina will be happy as long as it turns out that we're pretending to close the historical gates. For they will blow up the next year's yearbooks, generations and Poles, and Ukrainians. We have to close, based on the truth, historical divisions, so that Putin will stop enjoying himself. It's obvious. And we have been arguing for years that Russia is winning in our Polish-Ukrainian fight. She's gonna win. As long as we're in a lie, as long as Russia wins. And if we are a free, sovereign nation, finally able to reach out to the Ukrainian people under the conditions of sovereignty and freedom, and say, "Yes, the setting up of the Bander monuments separates you from Europe, because it is as if the Germans were putting monuments to Hitler today, which would drive Germany away from Europe. Don't do it, and we're helping you with this resolution... Don't you understand that? [[Voices from the room: No!]] It's obvious. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u215	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Obremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What's the Senate's mission? Probably more than the Sejm, we have a duty to think about history. Okay. Perhaps direct elections mean that many of us use the word "nations" more often than the words "states." Fortunately, we live in a time when these two terms are glued together. Still, these are two different concepts. In my opinion, this is the first, the nation, means emotions, the heart, and the term "state" means reason. The first one can be defined alongside the government, and the second one can also be defined with the government, although bowing down as if opposition, also in disagreement with the government. And this is an element that, in my opinion, is quite strongly present in this discussion. There is a dispute over the term "human murder" in relation to the murder of Armenians 100 years ago. This term always raises strong opposition from Turkey. It is impossible to criticize China's policy towards Tibet so that this does not happen to the reaction of the People's China. In Wikipedia, which may not be the best source, is such a definition of genocide: a purposeful destruction of whole or part of nations, ethnic, religious or racial groups. If my understanding of words is correct, my ability to reason, my logic, this means that the Volyn slaughter undoubtedly exhausts this definition. That's one thing. Secondly, Professor Żaryn stated that international relations must be based on truth. I would say yes in a normative sense, not necessarily in a real sense. Because let's take the first example on the side: our relationship with China. Thirdly, the letter of the 1966 Episcopate was beautiful and wise, but the response of the German bishops was not satisfactory. The professor said the Germans worked World War II. Yes, that's true, but in 1966, could it have been called overwork? It was only the beginning and Polish long-suffering, long-suffering episcopate started something, started to strengthen something. I think the analogy with this letter, if it is, is the opposite. The fourth thing is to make a little reference to other countries. For me it is very interesting what has happened recently in the Bundestag. It seems that in recent months the federal government has conducted a very strong pro-Turkish policy, and at the same time the Bundestag in the century of Armenian slaughter, as it were in contrast to the government, adopted a completely different position. It's to show you how it goes elsewhere. But let's get back to the present. Ukraine, like every country, determines its identity, defines its national and national myths. Now in a special way, not only for the short statehood, but also for the state of war which is. There are myths under which we gladly sign: Heavenly Sotnia, Nadiji Sawchenko's heroism. Moreover, her comments in Lublin, some openness here at meetings in Warsaw, which were perhaps not only her heartbeat, but some soft element of Ukraine's policy towards Poland, should be appreciated. I agree that there are some myths in Ukraine, which from the position of Polish dignity are unacceptable. But I can't agree that a certain criticism of this text comes from some kind of submission. I don't feel like I'm under the hierarchy. I feel like a senator of an independent Polish state who is trying to think Maybe he's wrong. Which is the interest of Poland. And so I wonder, looking through the prism of the Polish reason of the state, what are our goals when we think about Ukraine, thinking about Poland. First of all, I will speak for Zbigniew Brzezinski: independent Ukraine, even if I invoke it. These governments would be non-propole in the historical dimension, because only independent Ukraine has the opportunity to actually work through its history. Moreover, these most nationalist parties have minimal electoral support, although at the moment a cult of anti-heroes from Poland is of course worrying to us. Secondly, we want to participate in decisions on international order, including peace conditions for Ukraine, because we know that peace in Ukraine is integral to the security of our country. About a year and a half ago, we were removed from that decision table. In any case, perhaps the conclusion of this is this: It's just to get a little distance for our discussion. Whether we use the word "humanicide" or not, these decisions are related to something completely different. It should also be recalled that a reset in relation to Russia around 2010, however we look at it, removed us from Ukraine and was perceived by the Ukrainians. This is how the Polish state was understood at the time. I think that's what we need to talk about. But otherwise we made up for it with complete clarity after the annexation of Crimea. Third, it's not just a tactical matter. We have 2 days of debate, NATO summit and it is extremely important that decisions taken on Friday, on Saturday increase Polish security and increase the chances of independence of Ukraine. I'm not gonna talk anymore, because someone's gonna accuse me of conspiracy theories. And fourthly, I'm not exactly afraid of July 11th. It is that there are certain dates, days on which we are forced through a generational bond to pay tribute to the people who died. We worship September 1st, September 17th, the liberation of the Auschwitz camp, so it does not necessarily have to be something that will build hatred. The question is how it would be processed, although perhaps what Mr Terlecki said is a better solution. I'd say that for internal use. If the recipient of this resolution is the environment of families from Kresów, if we want to name Polish pain, it is a true resolution, we can feel fulfilled. She's real, but I'm not sure it's a good resolution. I feel the tension between my heart and my mind. I would like us to think about how much we give the other side, the modern Ukraine the chance to open up to our sensitivity, the chance for the Ukrainians to try to understand us, and not reject it after the first sentence. I think in this resolution of such bridges In addition to mentioning the heroes of the righteous, that's what I call it by analogy. Actually, there isn't. The text that was circling somewhere yesterday was, I think, better. I also think we're a little short of opening up to suggestions from the Platform. Although, as I said, maybe not directly, it is not a group that has no wine or error in the context of our policy towards Ukraine. In any case, this text requires retouching, perhaps so that this resolution is not only true, but also good and serves what John Paul II calls longevity. I'm having second thoughts about her so far. However, I would like to say that this discussion is very interesting. Tough, curious and, I dare say, better than the text we're going to vote on. But I fear that, in some simplification, there will be a communication that we will not be happy with, and that we will all lose a little bit after this debate. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Jarek, it's a good thing you didn't feel like a slave.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u217	Thank you. Thank you, Senator. And Senator Alexander Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased to be able to speak with Senator Oremski, independent senator, because it will be easier to understand my voice, not as a statement in the context of "my" and "my" but as an expression of concern and some reflection on the most important and deepest interests of Poland. Unfortunately, and here I am a little surprised, although in earlier statements Professor Żaryn expressed his thoughts differently, in terms of the construction of the speech, today he followed Senator Jackowski, who tends to share. You said, and I'd like to think about it for a moment. It's about sovereignty in rejecting a dictatorship, suggesting that one side of the room accepts a dictatorship and the other one you represent, no. I strongly disagree, because the fact that someone, accepting this text completely as true, may disagree that this text should sound and be adopted, does not have to be a dictatorship, but it can simply be an expression of political wisdom and far-sightedness. And I just want to say... Senator Żaryn said he didn't direct it as saying that one side of this dictation only accepts. You said - Thank you. - Thank you. Yes, I don't direct it to you, I don't think that's the state of your spirit. So I'd just like to remind you, as well as you, that I'm not directing this to you in any way. That once there was a painter who rejected the dictatorship of the Treaty of Versailles. And you know best how it all ended... [[Oh, that's too much.]] ...and that there's a space that could be dangerous for us. He is in fire and sword such a fragment of Kisiel's letter. This is the moment when we have to decide whether Prince Jeremy is to go to Ukraine or not, and he gets a letter from Kisiel, who then is the commissioner. The Republic of Poland in interregnum, and he asks him not to do it. There is a moment when the prince rejects these arguments, hits the boulder in the open letter of Kisiel, to which some of his surroundings, apparently Officer Bychowiec, say: 'Traitor Kisiel', and a friend of Kisiel, who comes there, says: no, I will not allow it, because this is how Kisiel understands the interests of the Republic of Poland. Maybe good, maybe bad, but definitely fair. And that's why it hurt me very much, though nuanced, delicate, and yet some suggestions that here, as far as the other side is concerned, she's bound by something, saying what she's saying today... Ending this thought with fire and sword, we know what the decision is, Jeremy goes and fights, he's a hero. I will remind you of the last words from the epilogue: The deserted Republic, the deserted Ukraine. The wolves were wading in the ruins of old cities and once thriving countries were like a great tomb. Hatred grew into the heart and poisoned the blood of the family. Professor, no one's denying that what's in this resolution is real. I'm just pointing out that you think like a historian. I have often been accused by colleagues in this House And that's my groupmates, because I've often been against all sorts of solutions. That I do not think like a politician, but as a lawyer, and I do not understand certain higher and far-reaching political values. I'm afraid by taking over this cuckoo egg from the Seym... We were both in committee today, and we know there was a question about the date. I will answer that question, which came out of the room today during the debate. After all, it was also a suggestion from the Member to include... You just have to ask: you have, man, a great resolution, that's why... When was the last time we met with such a situation that a politician, working on something, came and gave it to a colleague of his own? Professor, neither you nor I are politicians in the sense that we did not grow as politicians, but you can ask your colleagues and they will tell you that such events have not yet happened. And the question is, why should we do it? This resolution has already divided us. Because we're doing this to the wrong person, she was thrown in at the last minute, as colleagues have already said, so I'm not going to develop it, but we haven't been able to think about it for a while. She's already lying there, and we're, like, bridge, music... It's just like that and it's the only way... Even if we think there might be a damage to the Polish business, you throw in a moment like this... Of course, it's hard to speak against, because it's true. But we have to look wider. That's why I asked on the committee today, and that's why I was amazed that there was no opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; she wasn't there. I stress once again: not about the text, but about how such an important resolution was put up, I have some pretensions. I also resent the fact that we haven't had and we're not dealing with any new situation in relation to what happened three years ago, nothing so serious has happened in the last months that we have to answer the other side, reminding us of what we said three years ago. And now, if in the 70s... [[Time, Senator, time.]] I'm almost done. Excuse me. In the 1970s, three years ago, because it was agreed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and somehow agreed, it was an expression of force, I believe that now it is an expression of kernel, because there is no new point that should provoke us to repeat this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u219	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have spoken with great respect and sympathy on several occasions in the committee to Senator Zarin, but I must say that today's speech, Senator, has touched me strongly. Senator Rotnicka quoted the literal content, from board to board, even the role of the president, the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński, is mentioned there. You also quoted those words from Marshal Borowski. I said, where is it not true? Next: indeed, the question of the identification of genocide was contested at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, why did we call it that? I want to remind you. Because we have recognised and recognised so far that we are not a tribunal, we are not a court. But as a lawyer... It's got a dimension. Not just political, but legal. After all, we are the Senate, the second Chamber of Parliament, traditionally known as the Higher House. Ladies and gentlemen, the mark of action is a legal term. If someone committed a crime involving the marks of a crime, it means that he committed it, but has not yet been convicted, the court has not yet attributed him the blame. And that's why we say they were crimes of genocide. That's why I can't agree that the word "human murder" didn't come up. The word "genocide" fell. That's what this is all about: we thought that's what the tribunal was for, not us. But we think that genocide has been committed, and that's how it's supposed to be understood, and that's how it was, and it's still... And there was nothing else to argue about. Mr. Senator, you're assigning us... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...exactly, the mindset of the slave, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, Senator Shark, etc., not only the victims... Actually, my mom and my family from Strusów survived that ghetto. Luckily, they survived because the uncle hid in the shithole and the pitchforks went through a little bit of it because they were looking for... Uncle. But that's not the point. Well, Mr. Senator, these are the people of the Solidarity Cross. I don't have one either, and I didn't have a slave mind. I pride myself on the fact that my attorney has awarded me a medal of freedom, and twenty-six lawyers have gotten it. And then actually the courage was in the price. And that's the majority here: Senator Rulewski and everyone at once. Come on, Senator, give us the slave mentality? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I would like to remind you that I cared when I tabled an amendment, so that it should be stated that the Senate of the Republic of Poland considered purposeful not only, with what you agreed, establishing crime scenes, marking, ensuring a worthy burial of the victims found, giving due honor, respect to the innocently tortured, murdered, worthy of commemorating the victims of mutual conflicts, but also continuing the work of reconciliation and dialogue initiated by political and spiritual leaders. It's St. John Paul II spoke in the 60th anniversary of this crime about reconciliation and building forgiveness and forgiveness. And you don't want to put it here. Well, that's what you said. You said that the record of historical cooperation - Yeah, but that's it. No, no, no, no, And you were the oracle at the committee meeting. There will be a committee meeting, and you will have the opportunity to verify this. And further: strengthening cooperation between the authorities of the Republic of Poland and Ukraine in the most important, not only those, but all the most important for the future of both nations. Is that a slave mentality? Dear Senators, I am no longer talking about indirectly assigning the slave's mentality to Marshal Terlecki, because he also said in part what we are saying. We were quoting his statement that this drop was not appropriate. Because this is some ambition of Mr. Michał Dworczyk, who wanted us today at the committee meeting to sneak up on us, that please, after all, the Senate can do it, it is obviously not binding on the Sejm, but... we know our value. Let it really be done in the Chamber where he is an MEP, especially since we are to address the Sejm with an appeal. We should not address the Sejm and I was also talking about this amendment. Call on the president to award the honors. I think it's like the president doesn't want to give these decorations, and we have to make a special appeal. I don't really get it. There may be a need for such an appeal, because other arguments do not go to the President, but I doubt that very much, I highly doubt that. That is why I am making this amendment. Because I think, first of all, that this resolution, which was mentioned three years ago, is really up to date. Maybe in two years, when it's 70th anniversary, you can expand it even further. Why today? She applies, there's no lie, there's the honest truth. But if we do, then we really need to say what we expect, what we think is needed, what is most important to us. And I believe that this resolution, without just emphasising the continuation of the work of reconciliation and dialogue initiated by political leaders and the strengthening of cooperation between the authorities of the Republic of Poland, should not exist. Therefore, consistently, I repeat this amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u221	You may speak now, Senator Joseph the Hare. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! There, in the east. I represent the district of Chełm, Ukrainian matters are becoming more colourful, to the extent that here, in Warsaw, and in the rest of Poland, they will never be seen. There we find information which is most often not found in books, even in various stories, and which shows the real reality of Polish-Ukrainian contacts. And you could say, as somewhere in the book I read, that nobody remembers how it started, all this evil between Poland and Ukraine. But it was developing. Except it did not always develop in a negative direction, as we would see from various novels, such as Sienkiewicz, on which we are actually shaped and on which we grew up and from there we have this emotional concept of Ukraine. There, in the east, we're looking at this up close. And I have to say that there are many activities about which here, in Warsaw, we will not even hear local actions aimed at building good Polish-Ukrainian relations. Who's doing this? It is done by local governments, to such an extent that if you wanted to present it, I think that most of you would not believe it, I think the senator will confirm here, because these things happen in his area too. There are frequent visits... I don't have a week at my university to have someone from Ukrainian universities on the one hand, from the south, from Stanisławów, or on the other hand, from the Kiev direction, from Equator, Kiev He didn't come. They're really looking for a good relationship with us. Of course, I'm sure... And sometimes it happens, as happens to them at evening meetings, that, starting from a certain point, there goes the so-called truth. They know exactly what happened, who did it, who did it. And there's no problem at all... I've practically never met anyone to deny anything. But it is very difficult for them to say officially: yes, we have committed genocide. Because here, Professor Żaryn... I'm totally signing off on this, there's no question about it. And the other thing. Maybe one more example. What are we contaminated with in Polish-Ukrainian relations? Please note, because it seems rare that one of the greatest figures in the world of science, a historian, was born in Chelm. It was Mikhail Hruszewski, someone who wrote the 30-story of Ukraine, which we have not yet seen in Poland. Unfortunately, this man became a creator at the same time. I do not know if the person who was mentioned here from the later pre-war period was the actual theory of Ukrainian nationalism, to such an extent that it was extinguished in Moscow, where he began to cooperate after Stalin came to power. And we have a problem. They seek, search in their nation for these outstanding ones, and there is no way to identify someone who was an outstanding, recognized scientist, because he was offered a cathedral of history of Russia at the University of Lviv. This meant something incredibly great, because such a title or such a gift came from the Austrian Emperor, who was able to do so. And that someone was completely free in his actions, there was a lot of trouble with him, because in fact, I think the first nationalistic riot was he organized. And today we have a problem. We meet, I don't know how many times, and we talk about the construction of the Hruszewski monument in Chełma in front of the building where he was born. His father was the one. I wouldn't want to make a mistake here with an Orthodox clergyman. So that such situations exist there. And I have to say, I'm looking at it a little differently, but I'm looking very carefully. Caution is due to one reason, because it is a nation that is formed completely differently emotionally than we are. It's very different from our system of values. I'm going to give you a little negative example: we're going to work together, we're going to work things out. Mr. Senator will certainly confirm how this is going to work. And what does it turn out to be? It's all important until the next day, until morning, because in the morning they're talking about something completely different. Being there, we simply need to learn that there is a nation living next to us that is differently formed, otherwise created. Perhaps even they among themselves, knowing what had happened, are looking at these matters of genocide that we understand in European. I think they don't, they see it differently. They treat it in such a way that it was necessary to fight the so-called. a life space where no one would bother them. And since they have always been those losers in relations with Poles, it is obvious and I think it will be for a long time. Now it's today. Well, I come to Ukraine very often. It's one of those things I think. They will encourage the support of this project... Well, one of the cases sounded very harsh and very negative to me. It was a ceremony in the church, I will not say on what occasion, in any case the celebrations in which we sometimes attend, although the service lasts 3 hours, and at the end there was the statement of the Orthodox Archbishop who is supposed to be in Gliwice, where something like this happened that shocked all the Poles who were there: that Ukraine is not only the lands that are there at the moment, that is the whole Podkarpath, that is Małopolska, all the way to Gliwice. So at this point, you have to sit down again, take a breath and start things over. Some comments I made during my last trip to Ukraine; I was there two weeks ago with a longer visit to our archbishop in Lviv. The activity of our diplomacy in Ukraine is very weak. In many places we hear it, practically everywhere this sentence is repeated. I think we would have avoided many situations if our diplomacy in Ukraine had actually shown the class. And that is what I would like to suggest, using this opportunity, because this is a very important problem. He complains a lot about a lot of proceedings. I'm not gonna tell you what it is anymore. They want to come to Poland not only because they want to take a job, they want to see a different life because they know that things are different here. This is one of the most important issues. Of course, a lot of things will be... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. ...we were buzzing, but there are also some arguments that we find difficult to answer. They're under Chełm, probably all known, Wierzchowiny, a huge Ukrainian village, which in retaliation was completely wiped out from the face of the earth. They've been complaining about it so far. They come, there are services there. Nothing's been explained. That's why I think... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...that what has been observed recently is very much in favour of what has been presented to us here as regards the resolution, but we must also bear in mind that we are dealing with a completely different nation.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u223	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Senator Mieczysław Golba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution, which is being discussed today by the Senate of the Republic of Poland, on the matter of paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945 is very important and very necessary. On 11 July we will celebrate the seventy-third anniversary of some of the most tragic events in Poland's history. On 11 July 1943, the apogee reached the crimes of Volyn. On a bloody Sunday, as this day was called, Poles filled rural churches with crowds, never expecting to return to their homes again. On that day, the OUN-UPA attacked 99 localities. The villagers were murdered in churches. They were pulled out of their homes by force. They were abused in various beastly ways. For the next two years, hundreds of villages had Dantesian scenes, which took place in Volhynia and East Małopolska. The goal was to kill all the Lachians regardless of age or gender. In the purification action of Volyn from all traces of Polishness several hundred people were killed at once. Often only ruins remained in the Polish villages. The bloodiest murders occurred, among others. in Janowa Dolina, Ostrówki, Wola Ostrowiecka, Huta Pieniacka. In many places in Poland various celebrations are celebrated every year in honor of these tragic events. Biggest one-time murder. Poles in today's Poland by Ukrainian nationalists took place in the Elmachnica At present it is the district of Jarosławski On 17 April 1945, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Over 120 people died at the hands of the flagships that day. Among the murdered were young children, women, the elderly. The ligament I live in is my hometown, as well as my parents and grandparents. At the hands of Ukrainian nationalists, my family members were killed, they were murdered. When my hometown was burned, my mom was 18 years old. She remembered that bloody morning well. She often thought back to these tragic events, these horrible murders. She told us how our hometown was burned down, how our family house was burned down, how the farm buildings were burned down. She was fleeing with her older sister's child for several years in the direction of the San River. She survived miraculously. Since the autumn of 1944, inspired by the National Army, the village's population had issued night watchmen to warn against attacks by Ukrainian nationalists from the mark of the CNS-UPA. There was a police station in the Elm, and 28 soldiers from 2 were stationed in the area of the nearby farm. The backup Polish Army Infantry Regiment, who were surrounded during the massacre and had no way of stopping the events of the bloody morning. Mr Mieczysław Samborski described this tragic day to the Stranger exactly. He was very committed to commemorating this tragedy. He described how the attack took place on April 17 at 5:00 a.m., when UPA Kuren entered the village, Mesnyky, the Avengers, led by Ivan Szpontak, nicknamed Zalizniak, a former sergeant collaborating with the Germans of the Ukrainian Auxiliary Police. The assailants set the village buildings on fire with missiles also used by German pacification troops. Those hidden in the basements were primarily killed in flames or suffocated from smoke. Many of those who attempted to escape to Sanu died from bullets and in a barbaric way to describe them. Just after the prisoners were followed by Ukrainian civilians who robbed the goods of Poles. The local parish priest, priest Józef Biaś, who gathered a dozen men and handed them weapons and ammunition from an abandoned police station, attempted to organize the defense. He stopped the OUN-UPA troops from the local church, saving them most of all from being burned. As the banners began to retreat, a 30-man army team of soldiers from the National Union of the National Army and armed residents from other towns, from Piwod and from Szówska came to the village with their rescue. That day, more than 120 people died at the hands of the flagships, as I mentioned earlier. Most of them were able to identify. More than 150 buildings have been burned, or more than half of all the buildings in the Elm. Victims of genocide were buried in a local cemetery. There are more than 30 graves, as well as several mass graves. Such places are affected by very tragic murders in Podkarpacie, Lubelszczyzna very much. On the 70th anniversary of the tragic events in Volyn and East Małopolska... In 2000, a plaque was unveiled in the wall of the parish church commemorating the burning of my village and the murder of its inhabitants. I believe it is our moral duty to permanently commemorate those bloody events. We Poles must remember the past, the painful history. A nation that does not know its past dies and does not build the future, these are the words of our beloved Pope, St. John Paul. II. The ligament remembers tragic events in Volyn and East Małopolska. On 11 July of this year, at 6 p.m., the Holy Valentine's Day and the Birth of the Virgin Mary in the Elm will be celebrated in the church of St. Valentine's Day in the Elm for the purpose of the victims of genocide on the Polish population in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska by the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization and the Ukrainian Uprising Army on the South-East Kreses of the Second Republic of Poland. He will be honored by the murdered, lit with candles, and laid flower bundles. And returning to this day, to those who are worried about what might happen after the adoption by the High Senate of today's resolution "I'm pointing out: a very important and necessary resolution." As well as those who asked us: 'Did you ask the Ukrainian brothers about such plans?' Have you spoken with Nadia Sawchenko today?, I present the following decisions which took place in the Werchovna Rada of Ukraine. Last April, the Ukrainian parliament declared UPA members freedom fighters. The Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine has adopted a law in which the CNS-UPA is recognised as a formation fighting for independence of the country. This act was adopted on the day of President Bronisław Komorowski's visit to the Ukrainian Parliament. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 9 April 2015 the Act: the Act, not the resolution that we are planning to adopt today It recognises the legal status of participants in the fight for the independence of the country in the 20th century, including the CNS-UPA. The bill was brought by the son of the commandant UPA Yuri Shuchewych. According to the Act, all those who participated in the armed, political fight in structures and organizations are considered to be fighting for the freedom and independence of Ukraine, said deputy Yuri Shuchewych of the Radical Party, who introduced the bill. I will add that he is the son of the commander of UPA Roman Shuchetycz directly responsible for the genocide of Poles in the Kresów at the hands of Ukrainian nationalists. The legal act provides for the responsibility of Ukrainian citizens and foreigners: and foreigners • who publicly show disrespectful attitude towards the participants in the 20th century's independence struggles. Among the formations listed in the act, I mark again There is also the Ukrainian Insurgent Army. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that such a decision was to be made when President Bronisław Komorowski was in the Ukrainian Parliament, probably being consulted, right? From this point of view, I thank Mr Michal Dworczyk very much for preparing a letter addressed to the Ukrainians in response to a letter sent by the Ukrainian side to Polish parliamentarians earlier. In a special way thank you, ladies and gentlemen, to all of you here, especially to those who have engaged in drafting the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on paying tribute to the victims of genocide... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic of Poland in 1939 and 1945. Not for revenge, but for the memory of the victims. God bless you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u225	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Bobko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not easy to speak after this speech, but I would like to share a few thoughts. It was actually born during Senator Rotnicka's speech. The question is: why do we come back to this, i.e. Why are we going back to this three years ago in a situation where the Senate has already passed a resolution? The previous speaker's speech in some sense answers that question. There's still memory in us, living pain, and something that doesn't seem to... give us the need to go back to it. But I would like to draw attention to something else, to this resolution, which was in 2013. Resolutions, which was essentially a very good resolution, well thought out, negotiated, written with a large class. However, unfortunately, I say it with regret and not in the sense of accusing its creators, because probably this reading today, after a few years, is against the intentions of those who then compromise on this resolution Reading this key sentence, which is in this resolution: The ethnic cleansing that bears the mark of genocide, I have irrefutable association with the words of Archbishop Ignacy Tokarczuk, who repeatedly repeated, I remember from childhood that permanent public order cannot be built on semi-truths, it must be built on the truth. And as I say, regardless of the intention of the creators of this sophisticated sentence today for many of us, even in the context of this testimony which my predecessor spoke about, it unfortunately sounds half-truth. and unfortunately for this reason the need to return to this resolution is born. This resolution we're considering today... Unfortunately, it is right that it is created in a certain hurry. I've got an irresistible feeling I'd like to be wrong I don't think this is the last such resolution. However, I hope that the time will come for a resolution more refined, perhaps within the framework of consensus with our partners or, as we would like to say, friends from Ukraine, but still not seen. Another motive, a premise for this... We must repeat what has already been said. We have to keep saying this because the effects of what we've said so far may be too mild, they're still kind of... It's going in the opposite direction. Commemoration or building some founding myth of Ukraine, my previous speaker spoke about it. In relation to these environments or to those people who, according to European standards, are criminals, still take place. It is impossible not to notice that this is happening, so perhaps it is better to speak in a less veiled, simpler way, calling things by name than in a sophisticated, more political way. I think it's unfortunate to have my colleague, Senator Zarin, say that this is the other way of speaking, either because of some binding or because of some internal lack of freedom. I don't share that position. This debate, despite the fact that there have been very bad moments here today, even worse, shows that we have more in common than we share, that we have one goal, but we differ in the descriptions of the means to achieve this. And on the one hand, I think we have some simplicity, saying that genocide is genocide and a dot, and on the other hand we have an attempt at some political refinement that leads us to the path of complex political play, predicting various far-reaching consequences, even now. I don't know about foreign policy, but I think it's a big exaggeration of our fear that, I don't know, through this resolution, we're going to change the direction of solutions or decisions at the NATO Summit. Let's not overreact. This resolution is primarily addressed to us internally, it aims to commemorate our Polish victims. Here we speak our Polish language to ourselves. Of course, this has an indirect impact on Ukraine or some broader international context, but without exaggeration. More simplicity, more calling things by name, and less sophistication, which in the final... It has actually not produced any concrete positive results in the last twenty - few years, and we must be aware of that. There's nothing to hide, it's terribly painful, it's terribly frustrating for us, but it's the truth. And we have to face the truth: unfortunately, we have been standing still for more than 20 years when it comes to these key issues. And we have to learn from this: certainly the positive work, certainly what we were talking about here, the joint committee, joint initiatives... Anyway, something like this is happening, maybe nothing is happening, but, for example, there are a lot of interesting things going on between universities. But with regard to these key issues, unfortunately, we are standing still. Hence our voice, which commemorates the victims in a simple and simple way, calling genocide genocide genocide. I believe it will bring good results. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. And to speak, please, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I fully agree with my previous speaker that the current policy towards Ukraine, including historical policy, does not deliver the expected results. Poland is extremely open to Ukrainian needs, we support Ukraine politically, we support Ukraine economically, we can say that we are such voluntary, free ambassadors of Ukraine. I myself have recently been such a free ambassador, when at the OSCE parliamentary assembly I very much blocked any attempts to adopt a resolution which could lead to the reduction or removal of sanctions against Russia applied in connection with the illegal occupation of Crimea and the war in Eastern Ukraine. We do it naturally because we are Poles and we believe that the Ukrainians need to be helped, we think they deserve this help by fighting Russian imperialism now. But now we are talking about a resolution which is part of the historical policy of the Polish state or which is to be part of the historical policy of the Polish state. I've been listening to speeches in this room. No one, even the opponents of this resolution, questioned that what happened on Volyn, on the eastern ends of the Republic, was genocide. The opponents of this resolution only try to write it differently, because this record will be uncomfortable for our Ukrainian friends, partners, will violate their sensitivity, may threaten their friendship. I can say that this is proof of an absolutely unrealistic, irrational way of practicing foreign policy. This is the way we've been doing foreign policy over the last few years. And it ended with such a famous reset with Russia, it ended with a policy of gestures, love, friendship, taking patts on the back. But from these gestures, this policy was no good for us. First of all, speaking about Polish foreign policy Polish historical policy is an element of foreign policy. We must answer the question: what are our interests, what do we want, we as Poles? What does the Polish State expect? Is it in our interest to silence the truth, to pretend that we do not see the excesses of Ukrainian nationalists, and to allow monuments to murderers? Does our ambassador in Kiev intervene at such moments? Are diplomatic notes presented, or does the Polish State oppose these monuments? Does the Polish State object to calling the streets the names of the people who committed genocide? So far, our government's policy has not allowed this to happen. We closed our eyes, turned our heads, pretended we weren't involved. But it concerns us. Because is it in our but also Ukrainian interests to eliminate from their sphere the public anti-Polish nationalists? Is it in our interest to fuel, pretend, allow this nationalism to develop there? Very common to me said my Ukrainian friends, and I have very many friends in Ukraine, very often they told me that this Ukrainian nationalism, this anti-Polonism is fueled by Russian money. I have no proof of that, I quote my Ukrainian friends, they saw in such actions the hand of Russia. This Polish policy must be real, also historical policy. Ukraine needs us, it needs us very much not only as ambassadors, it needs not only our diplomatic support, but it also needs us economically. The ambassador of Ukraine in Poland says that more than one million Ukrainians work in Poland. According to data from the National Bank of Poland, over 8 billion 400 million Polish zlotys have been made here in Poland! This is our contribution to supporting the Ukrainian economy. Well, if you'll excuse me. The scale of comparison, I'm going to say that 3 million Ukrainians who work in Russia brought only 6 billion to Ukraine have earned only 6 billion. This is obviously also due to a drop in the value of the ruble in the meantime... But Poland is extremely important to them. Do we, by doing so much for Ukraine, set conditions? Is the adoption of this resolution not an important signal for politicians, for the Ukrainian authorities, that we want to build friendship with them, but do not accept anti-Polish attitudes in Ukraine? We will fight such attitudes and want to build our friendship on the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u230	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am relatively young, but not young enough not to remember the time when Ukraine was a nuclear power, a nuclear power that gave up nuclear power security also under Western guarantees, security guarantees. What these guarantees were worth, he showed the first serious conflict with Russia. The guarantees given by the West to Ukraine - how much were they worth? Ukrainians... I had the opportunity right after this conflict broke out to be near the combat area, and I'll be honest with you... Every time I spend even a few days with them, we talk, they're Ukrainians, they're not just Poles, they're Ukrainians... And they didn't blame... I was trying to bring up Volyn. They had no grudge about Volyn, they had a grudge that Poland had in no way supported them militaryly in conflict with the gigantic power. That Poland did not send any contingent of soldiers, specialists, special forces that they knew were perfect because they had experience from Iraq. The Ukrainians knew that. We didn't send anyone there. That's what they're complaining about, that's what they're complaining about until today. At a cemetery in Sumy 156 graves are graves murdered in the latest conflict. The Ukrainians were betrayed not only by Poland, but also by the Western powers, which provided them with guarantees in the process of extracting nuclear potential from Ukraine. They got rid of him. Do I have any doubt if anyone would attack the nuclear Ukraine? Nobody would touch her. The nuclear powers in the world today, however criminal they may be, are being avoided by a wide arch, because all other countries are just afraid of them. It would be the same with Ukraine. No Russian soldier would land in Crimea because the consequence would be to launch a rocket with a nuclear warhead. So much for the discussion about how we have an impact through this resolution on the fate of Ukraine. The fates of Ukraine were sold by the West, by other nations quite a long time ago in connection with the granting of its security guarantee after the launch of nuclear weapons. Then the devastation of Ukraine began, then she was denied help. So much for whether this resolution on truth has any effect on it. She's practically not gonna have any influence. I'm risking that phrase, even though I'm not a diplomat. But she's gonna have an impact on us, a giant influence. In Poland there are at least a few, if not a dozen, because the calculations are different... [[Voice from the room: But...]] This isn't a bidding process. I'm not bidding. ...people who have been transported from that area, people who are descendants of people from that area. Almost everyone in Volyn's territory had someone in his family who was murdered. My family... my grandfather's entire family was murdered. He's the only one left. Those who were murdered and their descendants are to blame for the truth. The proposed resolution is the first example in the post-war history of Poland of expressing the truth on behalf of the citizens of the Polish state on the subject of the crimes of genocide in Volyn. The previous attempts, completed by documents in the form of resolutions, were an example of a compromise which resulted in an understatement, unfinished unfinished expressions, inadequate in relation to the reality of an attempt to express the will of the rulers at that time. The truth was not shown, and by reaching it, further elements of it were given up for at least an understatement. It is not possible, speaking of the truth a few decades ago, to look at the sides and in the name of momentary interests to build an image of the past without a sober look at what it was just like. Buying the past of the Polish nation in order to obtain temporal benefits is at least indecency. It is all the more shameful that the witnesses of those events are still alive, and it is absolutely important for them to tell the truth about what happened in free Poland. We change the word "truth" here by all cases, but it is really crucial. The truth deprived of certain elements may not be a lie, but it loses its mark of truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. And Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Are you Senator Czerwinski? Yes, it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been a lot of issues here... It's gonna be hard to say something completely new, so let's try to break down the accents. First of all, the issue of sovereignty. In a sovereign country, can the higher House of Parliament adopt a resolution on the content of which everyone is convinced? I did not hear any voice from the opposition here, which would indicate which sentence of this resolution is false. I think I do. The time has passed when a red light lit up when making any legal act and the question arose: what will the comrades of Moscow say? Now, as I understand it, the question is: what will the comrades of Kiev say? Those days are just gone. Some may be longing for that time... I will remind you of this unfortunate letter issued, among others. by Mr Viktor Yushchenka and parliamentarians, significant people from the political life of Ukraine, to us, i.e. also to parliamentarians, to us senators. There was a reply to this letter, but the very fact that such a letter was sent was an attempt to humiliate us, an attempt to influence what we are adopting. Especially since this Victor Yushchenko... He led his legislation to the fact that the flagship was treated as national heroes. This is the failure of his politics... This resolution is also a failure of his policy and maybe that's why he signed in this letter. The question is: what is more important, the Polish or Ukrainian state right? They're not the same. These are two different nations, two different countries. If I have to choose, I choose the Polish right state, only Polish. The most important are Polish interests, and Ukrainian interests are important if they are conducive to the realisation of Polish interests. The most important thing here is the business of the Kresowian group, which has not yet received adequate moral compensation for the harm suffered. This group is slowly dying. There are already a few representatives of this group who remember what was happening there in the East, in Volyn, in Małopolska East. They've seen these horrible things. What else is to kill a man by shooting him in the war, and what else is to murder him in order to give him the greatest possible, first, humiliation, second, pain. Ladies and gentlemen, there was an exhibition in Opole once: 100 different ways of killing Poles by Ukrainians just in Volhynia. Perhaps bringing this exhibition here to Parliament would have a refreshing effect on those who do not allow themselves to think that this is the way to treat human beings. What does the heart dictate? The heart dictates reparation to those who deserve it most. Our compatriots should have such a resolution, all the more so because they were, in quotes, killed twice: first, there in the East, and secondly, here for communes and during the Third Republic. Why is it that we and the Germans have already, in quotes, settled why with the Russians at least in part and with the Ukrainians not? What prevents our relationship from being true so many years after our transformations and so many years after their transformations, at least fake? Why are we so afraid of the truth? This resolution is supposed to break it, it's supposed to be a breakthrough moment. I will admit that until now it was important that Poland as if it were ashamed of its Kresowians, that such a group exists at all. We couldn't talk about them in public. This issue has been lied about in international relations, in particular with Ukraine. Isn't it time to just change that? The last group that was so badly battered after World War II, a group whose cohesion was violated... And now we're going to try to satisfy this group over 20 years after the transition. Why are we still afraid of this? Except for the heart, there's still reason. And what does the brain say? Here the elements of reason, with regard to intellect, were very much in particular in the statements of the opposition, in which it was said why this resolution could not be adopted. I have tried to write them down and I will try to address them, to answer these questions, of course, briefly. Why should we not adopt this resolution? Because the Russians are gonna use it. Because the Russians say the same thing. That's what I heard from one of the people. I understand that if the Russians claim that the Earth is round, we're supposed to say different, right? We're just telling the truth, just the way it was. What do we care what the Russians say? What do we care? The truth is the most important thing. The truth is always self-defense, because there is only one truth, and there is always a lot of lies, and then they are contradictory, which makes them absurd. Because it will harm Polish-Ukrainian relations. How can the truth harm Polish-Ukrainian international relations? What is this relationship built on lies and falsehood? One of the sides is simply victimized in such relations. If the truth about history is not at their root, then such relationships have no future. Contrary to appearances, this truth is more necessary not to us Because we already know her in part, we were able to deal with her only to the Ukrainians. The more we hide this truth from them, the more they go, the more they're going in the wrong direction, the more they're gonna put up the flagship statues or the Bandana statues, the more they're gonna glorify these criminals. It's time to stop. Ukrainians do not have knowledge of history, so they need to dose it relatively slowly, gradually, it is a very interesting argument. If they don't have that knowledge, they need to get it out of the wrong way as soon as possible. I don't treat them like I don't know what to call it, so I don't get too aggressive and forceful. Like people who can't be burdened with the whole truth; let's say so. It's just a little kid explaining it's different than it really is. This nation has grown to learn the truth. It is time for this nation to know the truth no matter how many letters we receive, how many letters we will press on and what ideas will be made up so that we do not respond to this truth. Why is this a bad time? Why not this resolution? 'Cause it's not a good time. Because it's a round anniversary. And who said that such resolutions can only be adopted on the round anniversary? Why do we want to accept it? To celebrate November 11th, a national holiday... [[July.]] Sorry, July 11th, of course. ...remembering the victims so that a group of nostrils could have their day, gather and celebrate the day, and remember what was happening in the east that day. [[What about September 17th?]] Another example of why bad... Because a similar project can be adopted in the Seym. Or maybe this project came out of the Sejm too. After all, we have already passed one-sounding resolutions in the Seym and the Senate. And then it was bad? They were even presented with a very respectable... Finally, the last argument. I'll admit, when it comes to this argument, at first I thought it was a joke. I would like one of you, from the opposition, to explain to me five minutes after that, what is the causal link between telling the truth about the genocide of the Ukrainians in the East End and the stationing of missile bases on the eastern flank... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...the success of the NATO Summit. That's right, it's time, Mrs. Marshal, for someone to answer that question about cause-effect relationship. Let him explain it to us step by step. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u233	Thank you, Senator. Senator Antoni Szymanski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senators and gentlemen of the Senators! We are having a very important debate, the cast is extremely long and the list of people who want to speak is not actually over. I think this is the deepest debate, unique. Perhaps the success of this resolution is that it brought us together to discuss this matter with such attention. I think there's a deep trauma in us because we, as a society and as a state, didn't survive it. That's why today, we're actually going on endlessly, in such a unique quiet and unique atmosphere, and I'd like to stress that. This debate. A debate in which various wordings are expressed. I would like to say that I deliberately and sovereignly signed a letter which was read by Mr Dworczyk in Ukraine. And consciously and sovereignly, I will attend the Holy Mass dedicated to those who were murdered. Many of us will be attending celebrations in our cities. I will also make such a decision and will be sovereignly involved in the celebrations in Sopot and Gdańsk. And I'm gonna talk straight and forth about how it was genocide. At the same time, I am not free of doubt whether this resolution is well prepared or whether it is good that such an important issue is an addition to the agenda of the Senate's proceedings that the guests do not participate in this event, that we have not negotiated a text which for the whole House would be a text acceptable. I therefore have doubts and sovereignly, openly and courageously speaking, not because I do not want to vote in favour of this resolution, but because such matters, such important matters, should be prepared at such a level that they in this House do not raise doubts, and unfortunately these doubts. A lot of people have said that the border environments... It talked about millions of people who make up these border environments. My family and I also feel like we belong to the border environment, but when I talk to my family in Gliwice, in Głubczyce, in Zielona Góra and in various other places, I know that views on these matters are different. Some say, do it as hard as you can, because the drama that happened there was enormous. Others say, "Don't exaggerate." Others say, "Do your politics to take care of your grandchildren." This is not a homogeneous environment, this environment has different expectations, but of course it has the right to the truth and we should carry this truth in different places. This environment deserves such a resolution to be excellently prepared so that it is not divided and that it actually has good results. About the good effects of 2 words, because we are not here to talk about our emotions, although many of us That's what he's talking about and he's entitled to it. I can also tell you about my great-grandmother who was thrown into the well, and I can also talk about the Ukrainians who opened the barn so that my mom could hide. Except we can't be guided by these emotions in this House. In other places, yes. We need to make such decisions here with reason, which will serve to strengthen our country, strengthen our alliances, strengthen our international relations. I am not convinced that a resolution in this form will serve this purpose. I'm not convinced of that. We are also talking about the form, the time, the place and how this resolution is written. I've had a chance to talk to the Ukrainians many times. During the meeting with a group of Ukrainian doctors, I had the opportunity to convey this truth in prayer. I prayed for my loved ones, and I know it was the Ukrainians who opened up. But I could also say to them in the face, "You are of a nation that has committed genocide, and I know that it would have shut them down." I could have told them the truth in the face, but I know it wouldn't have opened them up to anything. So the ability to tell the truth in the right place and in the right time, in the right form, is very important. It's not like it's enough to tell the truth and get everything. We politicians should be... And in this House, we are politicians, not publicists, but politicians who think about the consequences of their actions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Lightning...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u235	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u236	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear colleagues! We hear a lot about personal harm suffered by the families of our senators. Unfortunately, I am not part of this relationship, even though I live in Lublin. My family didn't get hurt, lives all the time closer to the Vistula. And what do I want to tell you, what do I want to introduce? We are, I think, the best Ukrainian ambassador in Europe. We do not only a lot for Ukrainian society, but a lot for Ukrainian society. If they're in need, we borrow money. We send them shoes, clothes, humanitarian aid if we need it. Ukrainian companies can develop freely in Poland. Ukrainian entrepreneurs buy a lot of large factories in Poland. And on the other side, I don't see any symmetry. On the other side were attempts to introduce Polish capital into Ukraine and these attempts were usually unsuccessful attempts. I'm only saying this as an introduction to the resolution we want to make. Why am I talking about this? You can't say that the news from Onet is being planted by the Russians. They were planted by the Germans. What does Onet say? Title: We will raise you up and cut you down. Dramatic report of Poles beaten in Ukraine. This is precisely the case with the four esteemed travelers from Lublin. The marriage of Lublin journalists and two representatives of the artistic department of UMCS went to Lviv, among others. to sign a cooperation agreement with the Academy of Fine Arts in Lviv. There are names here, they're not classified. On the road the Ukrainians protested, who suffered in connection with the suspension of the small border traffic agreement. Here we go. Do you think that if the Germans had introduced some particular control on our western border, we would have beaten these Germans? Meanwhile, cars were coming and traffic was getting bigger and bigger. Ukrainians began to bear additional tires, from which they created a barricade on the road. In addition to the bad news, some of the protesters were already outside our borders and started shouting about... the Volyn slaughter. Ladies and gentlemen, it was Monday, a few days ago. The threats to Poles began to be directed, that they would make us rise and cut us out. Other attacks and provocations also appeared. At one point one of the bullies came up to me, said: you fucked up, you're not leaving Ukraine anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, this was all on Monday. They've all been beaten. The police didn't intervene, they cuffed your editor and put him in the car, maybe it was a form of his cover, and after a few hours everyone was taken to the hospital. They're back in Lublin. You can't see any reaction from the Ukrainian side. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of reaction on our part also leads to this type of behavior. I don't like incidents because in medicine the incident doesn't affect the whole treatment, but he fits perfectly into the reasoning of some politicians so as not to touch the problem of the Volyn slaughter. No, ladies and gentlemen, we must make it clear what the consequences of not responding to the Volyn slaughter are. This is the lack of reaction on the Ukrainian side. If the Ukrainian side wants to hide it, it wants to call the streets the names of murderers if it wants to build monuments for them, it creates the consent for this type of behavior. So that I absolutely sign our resolution and I believe that the lack of reaction on our part will result in disrespect for us. Because it's disrespectful, beating up these Poles is disrespectful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u237	Thank you very much. Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! In fact, I would like to thank Senator Szymanski, who said so beautifully that on the one hand he supports, and on the other hand he is surprised and would not like to adopt this resolution in such a form. I am also surprised, Professor, that you are directing this today, on the day when the leaders of the greatest powers are about to arrive, on the day on which we should be an open state, not a closed state. About my previous speaker Honourable. Mr. Senator, you've set an example of individual behavior that happens everywhere. Sometimes we meet people like that on our way. I have been in Ukraine many times, many times, as a member of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, visited graves and talked to various people; I have some friends there whom I met here, in Poland, through normal human relations. And I have to say this: although I have been in Ukraine many times, even though I have been in different situations, I have never met with aggression, I have never met with hatred. When I introduced myself and said that I was from Poland, that I was a Polish parliamentarian, nothing bad happened to me there. Of course, what happened over 70 years ago is a terrible and disgraceful thing. And it doesn't matter who did it, whether it was the Ukrainians or if it was another nation. Things like this in a civilized world shouldn't be happening. And we certainly don't agree with that, neither the left, nor the right side, nor any of the Platform, nor any of the PiS disagrees with that. We will always condemn it. We will not return today with this resolution of life to those who are dead, we will not reverse the suffering of those who have suffered. I'm really surprised that right now, at a time when things are more important to people, when we should be an open country, a smarter country... And a wiser country He's dead in the past, he's not dividing people, he's just looking at what's going on today. And yet today we are open, many Ukrainians have come to Poland, many Ukrainians are working with us because they lack hands to work, and some of the work they do not even take. So today, instead of debating more important matters, we are throwing in at this hour when everyone is thinking about how to leave Warsaw, so that we do not get paralyzed by what is happening at the moment, we are debating things that we should... We should lean on these matters, but in due time, after proper preparation, as Senator Szymański said. And we should make it possible for everyone to debate this freely, not in haste, without looking at the watch, regardless of how this room was divided. And the number of speeches and their length, what is happening here today, shows that we are divided. I would ask you to withdraw this resolution and return to it in time that will be appropriate. Thank you very much. I'm about to file an application.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u239	Thank you, Senator. Senator Krzysztof Frost, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say this: I listened to this discussion and, like Senator Szymański, I am a little upset because I think that commemorating such a situation, such a murder, which no one is questioning without question, should probably be accepted in this House by the acclamation. I can't imagine anyone in Israel's Kneset multiplying their doubts about commemorating various elements of the crimes that were committed on Jews in different places. It's a shame we couldn't get over the divisions today. And yet these certificates, these beautiful testimonies, which were beautifully said, the dramatic testimonies that both the Senators of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform were talking about, because it historically involved everyone... Despite these tragic events, we are here today trying to look for a policy and make up for it ideology. My previous speaker, Senator Dowhan, of course, told me this was a bad time. Well, Mr. Senator, I don't want to do politics, but when you applied for Antoni Macierewicz a few days ago, it didn't bother you that there was a NATO summit. And today, talking about this kind of resolution is bothering you at the NATO summit. When are we supposed to make this decision, since the anniversary is July 11th, which is a few days from now, on Monday? It is today or Monday that it is time to make such a decision. And if you consider that today is the end of the Senate meeting... Well, it's pointless to adopt resolutions a month or two months after the anniversary of events. It was so accepted that such resolutions are always adopted on an anniversary. Ladies and gentlemen, my grandmother... Although we did not experience it directly or my parents, but I know it from my grandmother's story, which said that those inhabitants, these Poles, were waiting for salvation for the Nazis, because that was the brutality of the Ukrainians. I don't want God's weapons to compare it, because World War II, for all sides, and for the Soviets, and for the Germans, and for all others, has shown the worst faces of people. But we, Ladies and gentlemen, want to commemorate this resolution of our citizens who were murderous only for being Poles. And I'm surprised it's controversial. I have to say, in general, that there is something going on with some of the policies of the Civic Platform that I do not understand. Because very many of you have beautiful resumes with a fight for independence, a fight in a peerel. I'm drooling. But, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know, why don't you go towards decadence, this modernity? Because that's the kind of thing that's controversial. I remember a few days ago or a few days ago we were discussing the media. And of course, it was possible to raise things in the case of the media law, but how many senators did not like the word "national" applied to these media. Honestly, I was amazed that even that's something you could pick on, and that's exactly what you were picking on. Well, I'd understand if you guys were picking on some specific records. And today something that should de facto connect Because there were senators' relationships, many senators of the Civic Platform, who said how they shared with their families. I would dream that such a resolution should be adopted by acclamation. And it's a pity we have so many hours to discuss, so many hours to argue. No one questions one thing: that free, strong and independent Ukraine is in our national interest and that it is worth it for this Ukraine to be. Nobody wants this resolution or any law and justice policy to weaken Ukraine. Because we know that threats are slightly different and that Ukraine, despite all the problems, is a buffer that separates us from Russia and is a kind of security element. But we can't close our eyes on this story, a dramatic story. And this resolution is a symbol, because in it we do not call for any claims, we do not call for punishment of anyone, but we speak more about highlighting certain irrefutable, well documented, real events that took place at that time. That's honoring those people who died back then. Therefore, to be honest, I am a little surprised by this attitude and I am a little surprised, even very surprised that such a thing should connect us all, because the memory of people who died only because they were Poles, speaking Polish, were Catholics. I don't know what she's sharing here. And adding to this some modern ideology or politics is, in my opinion, inappropriate, therefore I, like all my colleagues in Law and Justice, will vote in favour of this resolution with a clear conscience. I am pleased that such a resolution will be taken by the Senate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u241	Thank you very much. Senator Zbigniew Silence. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marshal Piłsudski beautifully once said that Poland is like a bagel The best is on the shores. And today we are talking about people from the Kresów, who have suffered a huge sacrifice of life only because they were Poles. None other than Polish lawyer Rafał Lemkin created the concept of genocide and led to the adoption by the United Nations of a Convention on Genocide. And nothing but genocide was what was done by the Ukrainian nationalists on our fellow countrymen by murdering them in a manner so cruel and sophisticated in the number of more than 100,000 lives. Ladies and gentlemen, justice and a sense of decency require that we remember this rather than forget it. And I think that no consideration of the so-called political correctness should be more important to us, and we should not allow this sacred duty that we have towards our fellow countrymen who have lost their lives to their families who have survived because they are lucky or because they have been saved. Because of course there were Ukrainians who were decent people and saved defenseless children, several years old who lost their parents or their entire family, and those children, orphans, were saved by Ukrainians who had human impulses of compassion and risked their lives to defend those helpless murdered. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that we cannot direct this discussion to the sidelines, to the reasons for political correctness, to the historical conditions, to the conditions connected with the fact that Ukraine is currently in a state of unspeakable war with Russia. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we must act and act, from the very beginning, as ambassadors or lawyers of Ukraine in its aspirations to enter the European Union. All the time, ladies and gentlemen, that's what we've been showing. But I'll remind you one basic thing: it's sometimes the duty of a lawyer to act against the client's wrong will. If, ladies and gentlemen, there is such a situation that we glorify those who were the perpetrators of genocide, if they are called the names of the streets, if they are presented with monuments, it means that there is some wrong way for our client, whom we are a lawyer for accepting into the European Union. And in such a situation, the task of a good lawyer is to act independently, professionally, so as to bring about a good result, i.e. to ensure that Ukraine meets all the necessary requirements to be adopted by the European Union. And one such requirement is to admit these crimes. You have to call it by name. Which have been committed and given the truth by expressing at least some act, let's call it repentance. And in any case, abandoning the glorification of people who were clearly criminals. I think if we don't do this, we're gonna embezzle our mission that we have to fulfill. Well, sometimes the role of a lawyer is to act even against the client's will if it's for his own good. And I think we're doing it here. such a difficult role, which may sometimes be misjudged by this client at a given time, but I believe that it will be appreciated in the long term and will even meet with approval. Even though at a certain point all of this can be met with some resistance or even criticism. I believe that this resolution is probably also for the good of these decent Ukrainians. And I think there's a vast majority of them. ! which, like us, evaluates history and is ashamed of what happened in Polish-Ukrainian relations just as a result of the unprecedented crime mentioned here. Because it's important to remember that it was probably one of the major crimes committed in the history of the world, a crime committed on defenseless people, people who were very often After all, benefactors for those who then murdered them. Because such were the relations in Polish-Ukrainian history, that very often Ukrainians experienced acts of generosity by our fellow countrymen, and then Poles met such terrible ungratefulness, such a retribution. Therefore, in the name of the Polish-Ukrainian reconciliation, which is also the basis of some European relations, one must sometimes call certain things by name. You can't hide your head in the sand here and say that everything's okay, and in the name of some geopolitical assumptions, we're gonna keep things quiet and give it up. I believe that in the name of this reconciliation we must tell ourselves the truth. And true Ukrainian patriots, I think, will accept it with understanding and even appreciation. That's why I don't see any reason to put our proposal on the wave of criticism that has occurred here. Because our intention is certainly not to retaliate, our intention is to make such a real reconciliation between the Polish and Ukrainian people, a condition for which reconciliation is to recognize certain truths as undisputed, truths which were tragic in the history of our mutual relations. I therefore believe that this resolution deserves approval. And I don't think there's anything here to take, so to speak, an ostrich attitude, bury your head in the sand and claim that what we're talking about here can spoil Polish-Ukrainian relations. Of course, I believe that international relations should always be based on truth, and this truth undoubtedly combines. And where there were some things to be ashamed of, every nation should sprinkle its head with ashes and confess its mistakes. Therefore, in the name of Polish-Ukrainian relations, which should be as friendly as possible, and Poland actually aspires to be the ambassador of Ukraine in its efforts for full independence and in its efforts to be a full member of Europe... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...you have to accept this resolution in my opinion. And I therefore consider it appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u243	Thank you. And Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've been debating what should be obvious for hours. I supported the calls for the release of Nadiji Sawchenko, I took care of and will continue to look after the children who come from Ukraine, but what we call the Volyn slaughter is genocide, which actually cannot be precisely defined. The very way you kill people is actually just barbaric. July 11th is a day commemorating the slaughter of Volyn. Poles, who somehow managed to survive this, expect us to adopt this resolution. Therefore, let us be courageous, let us show courage to condemn barbarism, and honor all those who have shown courage to fight and help Poles, to save them. I ask you to end these empty, longer debates and vote on this resolution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Piotr Zientarski and Senator Robert Dowhan have submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. I propose that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear any objection, I think the Senate has accepted the motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u246	There's an objection. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]] [[It'll be a vote. Okay...]] [[10 minutes off!]] The objection concerns your Marshal's statement and that this should not take place at this Senate meeting yet... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Miss Marshal, request a 10-minute recess!]] [[Voice from the room: Why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u247	Mr. Senator, wait a minute. The break will be announced in a moment, but I've requested that you continue to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I have requested that a committee meeting be held today and that an additional report be prepared by the committee. There's a voice against it. Yes, Mr. Senator? [[Yes.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am holding a vote on the formal proposal. Who among you is in favour of setting the committee a deadline and preparing an additional report to carry out the third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting? Who's in favour? Who's... [[Excuse me. Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Voices from the Chamber: The vote is now!]] [[Wait a minute!]] Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator! I've ordered the vote and we're voting. [[But Mr. Marshal...]] We're voting. [[Mr. Marshal announced at the beginning of the meeting...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. We're voting. [[...foresaw the possibility that he would be on...]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: During the vote you cannot...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We vote, ladies and gentlemen. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the Chamber: Mrs. Marshal, maybe you can repeat this formal conclusion again?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please state the results of the vote. 56 senators voted, 40 were in favour, 15 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 10]] The motion has been accepted. I ask the committee to prepare a report. We will now announce the announcement, and then there will be a break. I'm asking for an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u248	Message. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the twenty-second Senate meeting for a draft resolution on tribute to victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945 will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u249	Dismissed until 9:30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 51 to 21 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u250	I'm reopening the session. We begin to consider item 17 on the agenda: a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is included in print No 223. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee adopted the draft resolution unanimously at its meeting on 5 July and recommends that the High House adopt it. I'll read it because it's very short. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the change in the composition of the Senate committee. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Kazimierz Wind from the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u252	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on the change in the composition of the Senate Committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Isn't it working? It's working now. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a change in the membership of the Senate Committee. We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 195 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, a meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place. During a very fruitful and substantive debate, 9 amendments were tabled, unfortunately not adopted by the committee. The Commission recommends that the law be adopted without amendment. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately for us...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u254	Thank you very much. Did the senators of the applicant... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting, we are not debating. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senators Jan Rulewski and Piotr Florek submitted their conclusions during the discussion. No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 29 against. [[Voting No 12]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons running certain companies. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Agricultural Advisory Units. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 29 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Agricultural Advisory Units. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 216 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Wind, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Science, Education and Sport, after considering today's proposals made during the debate, invites the High Senate to support Amendment 2 and adopt the law with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u256	Thank you very much. Does Senator Marek Rocki want to speak again? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. Wait a minute. Please. 82 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 79 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment No 1 eliminates the provision imposing an obligation on a public university to determine by resolution the number of places on the different courses of fixed studies for a given academic year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 56 against. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 aims to maintain the existing conditions for post-graduate studies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 82 were in favour, 6 against. [[Voting No 16]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 3 and 4 must be voted together. They aim to preserve the competence of the Polish Accreditation Board to carry out an institutional evaluation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 29 votes against, 58 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] Amendments 3 and 4 were rejected. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 86 votes against, 3 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Social Security Act and some other laws. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 72 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to speak from the place. [[You're welcome.]] I would like to say that after today's meeting, the joint committees recommend that the High Senate adopt all 8 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u258	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a request to the rapporteur and the applicant from a place of not more than one minute in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the draft provisions. "Print No 72 X " followed by the adoption of the project in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted, "Print No 72 S. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 5 and 8 must be voted together. They aim to introduce a proportionality clause in a version adapted to the case law not only of the Supreme Court but also of the European Court of Human Rights. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 33 against 56. [[Voting No 19]] Amendments 1, 5 and 8 were rejected. Amendment 2 adapts the project on changes in farmers' social insurance to changes made by the project in the general scheme. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 33 against 56. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendments 3 and 6 should be voted on together. They adapt the terminology of the provision of pension rights amended in the project to the terminology adopted in the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 32 were in favour, 54 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendments 3 and 6 were rejected. Amendments 4 and 7 should be voted on together. They align the terminology of the provision of pension rights with the terminology adopted in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The vote was 90, 34 for, 56 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendments 4 and 7 were rejected. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law presented by the committee in its entirety and on the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 72 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Jan Filip Libicki to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Jan Filip Libicki to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single bill in print no. 122 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 34 were in favour, 55 against. [[Voting No 24]] In the light of the results... Where is it? Okay. In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not adopted a resolution on the submission of a draft law to the Sejm and has therefore concluded its proceedings in this matter. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Code. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 152 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pęk, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has not supported any proposal and proposes that the Senate adopt a single draft law amending the Civil Code and a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 152 S. In addition, I inform you that Senator Jerzy Czerwiński has changed the content of his proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u261	Is that okay? [[Yes, you can.]] Mr. Marshal, I support the motion. I believe that the situation of subcontractors, in particular the latter, will be severely weakened as a result of the adoption of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u262	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I appeal for an amendment... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in paragraph 5, paragraph 2 is replaced by the words "or by a further subcontractor" and the words "as referred to in paragraph 2" shall be inserted after the words "by a sub-contractor." Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment really civilizes... makes it possible to compensate not only for the first subcontractor, but also for the next one. There are a lot of cases like this. I appeal to you because soon we will have to work again on this bill to compensate these people... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u264	Thank you very much. Are the senators of the applicant Senator Piotr Zientarski and Senator Jerzy Czerwiński Do they still want to speak? No. Thank you. [[Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to take the floor, ask a question? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. Following the vote on the proposed amendment, we will proceed with the vote on the draft law in its entirety, print No 152 S, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Ziientarski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 58 against. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has rejected... No, no. In view of the rejection of the motion for rejection of the bill, we are voting on the amendment tabled. The amendment aims to ensure that the investor and the subcontractor are jointly and severally liable to the subsequent subcontractor, subject to written consent to the conclusion of a further construction contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 34 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] [[Oh, there's one holding back.]] [[We'll write down the names.]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law contained in print No 152 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Robert Mammothov to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. [[Mr. Marshal, may I speak on a formal matter?]] I don't think in the vote, I don't know what this is about. [[Just a little bit: 1:0 for the French.]] Okay, thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[A senate rooster.]] Okay, who's... Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting and please do not disturb me. The result is important, but it's really not the most important. Who's... wait, did I vote? I don't even know if I voted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 61 were in favour, 29 against. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Civil Code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Robert Mamytkow to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the discussion of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. I would remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 196 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 89 were in favour, one abstained, no one opposed the motion. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of the Polonia Consultative Council. We are back to discuss item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that yesterday the committee's report on the draft resolution was presented and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 220 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law of the Family and Care Code and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 202 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Mark Pak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u265	Mr. Marshal! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy recommend the adoption of proposal I, i.e. a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u266	Thank you very much. Does the senator, Senator Jan Rulewski, want to speak yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u267	Yes, by reminding that all children are equal, which means voting for my amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u268	We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, followed by a vote on the proposed amendment. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 69 were in favour, 15 against, 5 abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Family and Care Code and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on public collective transport. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill, contained in print No 156 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Grzegorz Czelej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 88 were in favour, 2 against. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on public collective transport and has adopted a resolution on bringing this project to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Grzegorz Czelej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 236 X. We proceed to the third reading. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that during the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the votes were taken during the break in our deliberations. The motion to reject the resolution is gone 4 people voted in favour, 9 people opposed. In the case of Senator Piotr Ziientarski's amendment, four were in favour, 8 against, 1 abstention. The amendment was therefore not accepted. That is why I am proposing and asking for a resolution without amendments. There have been two minority proposals, and they have been submitted. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u270	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the committee, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This is a request not to adopt this resolution, mainly because three years ago a resolution was adopted on this matter and, according to the applicants, its text is more extensive, deeper and sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u272	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u273	Unfortunately, you have not accepted the amendment which stressed that the Senate considers it a deliberate continuation of the work of reconciliation and dialogue initiated by political and clergy leaders. It was not considered necessary to support, strengthen the cooperation of the authorities of the Republic of Poland and Ukraine in the most important matters for the future of both nations. All the more so, I will vote against, against the resolution, because this most important amendment has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u274	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? [[We support...]] Don't tell the senator. Okay? [[Joy in the Chamber]] During the second reading, the senators Marek Borowski, Piotr Zientarski, Robert Dowhan submitted legislative proposals. Do the senators still want to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voices from the hall: No, I don't want to. No.]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Yes? [[No questions.]] Yes or no? I'm asking you specifically. Senator Ryszka, please. [[Unconscious...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u275	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would just like to ask Senator Ziientarski if he continues to uphold his request, since today the City Council of Kiev has adopted a resolution to change the name of the Moscow Prospect to Stepan Bandera Avenue.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u276	Yes, all the more so because I believe that it is all the more necessary to continue the work of reconciliation and dialogue and to strengthen cooperation between the authorities of the Republic of Poland and Ukraine. [[Applause]] All the more reason!
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u277	Good. Are there any more questions? There isn't. [[There isn't.]] I can't see and I can't hear the calls. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. After the vote on the amendment tabled, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendment adopted... or it will not be adopted. We are voting on Senator Marek Borowski and Robert Dowhan's motion to reject the project. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 90 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 61 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendment of Senator Piotr Ziientarski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[It's a success. Success!]] Please report the results. 90 senators voted, 31 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 33]] [[Voice from the hall: Like a non-slave.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety; it is included in print No 236 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 23 against, 1 the senator abstained. [[Voting No 34]] In the light of the results... [[Applause]] Thank you. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on paying tribute to the victims of genocide by Ukrainian nationalists on the citizens of the Second Republic in 1939 and 1945. I'd like another script, please. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Waldemar Member responsible. We proceed to the vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Waldemar Member State responsible for the offences. The Senate agrees to hold the senator responsible for the offence by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-consecutive consent to draw the senator to account for the offence. The vote on personal matters shall be secret and shall be taken using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries of Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Jerzy Wcisła. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. It's just one sign of x. A ballot card which has more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will enter the ballots in alphabetical order into the ballot boxes. Then a break will be ordered... How many minutes? [[Voice from the room: 10 minutes.]] ...in the session during which the senators shall calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots, and your senators to fill out the ballots. There will be another secret vote after this secret vote. Did all the senators receive the ballots? I ask Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order. And I ask the Senators to put their names in the ballot box filled with secret ballots after reading them. Mr. Senator, please read the names. [[But we don't have cards.]] [[Not everyone has cards.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we don't have the cards yet.]] That's what the rest will get. Read it. I already told you to read.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u278	− Jan Filip Libicki, − Rafał Ambrozik, − Anna Anders, − Mieczysław Augustyn, − Adam Bielan, − Grzegorz Bierecki, − Przemysław Błaszczyk, − Aleksander Bobko, − Ryszard Bonisławski, − Waldemar Bonkowski, − Marek Borowski, − Bogdan Borusewicz, − Barbara Boris-Damięcka, − Margareta Budner, − Jerzy Chróścikowski, − Zbigniew Silence, − Leszek Czarnobaj, − Grzegorz Czelej, − Jerzy Czerwiński, − Dorota Czudowska, − Wiesław Dobkowski, − Jan Dobrzyński, − Robert Dowhan, − Jarosław Duda, − Jerzy Fedorovich, − Peter Florek, − Robert Gaweł, − Adam Gawada, − Stanisław Gogacz, − Mieczysław Golba, − Arkadiusz Grabowski, − Thomas Grodzki, − Maciej Grubski, − Jan Hamerski, − Jan Maria Jackowski, − Andrzej Kaminski, − Stanisław Karczewski, − Wiesław Kilian, − Kazimierz Kleina, − Bogdan Klich, − Andrzej Kobiak, − Maria Sophia Blanket, − Stanisław Rogut, − Władysław Komarnicki, − Tadeusz Kopeć, − Margaret Kopiczko, − Waldemar Kraska, − Maciej Łuczak, − Józef Łyczak, − Richard Majer, − Robert Mammoths, − Marek Martynowski, − Łukasz Mikołajczyk, − Andrzej Mioduszewski, − Andrzej Bear, − Krzysztof Frost, − Grzegorz Napieralski, − Jarosław Oremski, − Bogusława Orzechowska, − Andrzej Spider, − Maria Paniczyk-Podziej, − Grzegorz Pekkis, − Marek Pęk, − Wojciech Piech, − Leszek Infantry, − Aleksander Pociej, − Marian the Messenger, − Michał Potkowiczny, − Krystian Probier, − Zdzisław Pupa, − Constantine Radziwiłł, − Marek Rocki, − Tadeusz Romanczuk, − Jadwiga Rotnicka, − Jan Rulewski, − Jarosław Rusiecki, − Sławomir Rybicki, − Czesław Ryszka, − Janina Sagatowska, − Michał Sewerynski, − Krzysztof Elephant, − Waldemar Sługocki, − Andrzej Stanisławek, − Lydia Staron, − Grażyna Sztark, − Aleksander Swed, − Antoni Szymanski, − Raphael the locksmith, − Przemysław Terminski, − Peter Wach, − Arthur Warzocha, − Jerzy Wczyła, − Kazimierz Wind, − Jacek Włosowicz, − Andrzej Wojtyla, − Alice the Hare, − Joseph the Hare, − Barbara Zdrojewska, − Piotr Zientarski, − Jan Zaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, have all the senators voted? Everyone cast their votes. Thank you very much. I am now asking the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 10:17 p.m. [[Is there gonna be another vote?]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be another secret vote, so that I ask you to attend. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 07 to 22 minutes 17]] We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: agreeing to hold Senator Waldemar Member responsible. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a protocol for a secret vote. I declare the results and read the protocol. The minutes of the secret ballot of 7 July 2016 on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Waldemar Member State liable for the offences. Those appointed by the Senate Marshal to hold the vote of the Senate's secret secretaries, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Jerzy Wcisła, state that in a secret vote regarding the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to be held liable for the offences of Senator Waldemar B Member State, 84 votes were cast, including valid 81 votes. Three senators voted in favour, 77 senators voted against and one senator abstained. The absolute majority required is 51. In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate of the Republic of Poland has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to be held liable for the offences of Senator Waldemar B Member State. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: consent to the appeal of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, UKE. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 4 of the Act of 16 July 2004 on telecommunications law of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications shall revoke the Sejm with the consent of the Senate at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers. Such a request was addressed by the President of the Council of Ministers in connection with the resignation of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. The Sejm dismissed Ms Magdalena Gaj as President of the Office for Electronic Communications on 7 July this year. The resolution of the Sejm on this matter is contained in print No 243. We join the secret vote on the consent of the Senate of the Republic of Poland to appeal Magdalena Gaj from the position of President of the Office of Electronic Communications. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Senator Jerzy Wcisła. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. A ballot card with more than one mark on it or no mark on it shall be deemed to be invalid. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. A break will then be ordered during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill out the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Jan Filip Libicki, Rafał Ambrozik...]] Wait a minute. Did all senators receive A secret ballot? Good. Now you can read names.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u280	− Jan Filip Libicki, − Rafał Ambrozik, − Anna Anders, − Mieczysław Augustyn, − Adam Bielan, − Grzegorz Bierecki, − Przemysław Błaszczyk, − Aleksander Bobko, − Ryszard Bonisławski, − Waldemar Bonkowski, − Marek Borowski, − Bogdan Borusewicz, − Barbara Boris-Damięcka, − Margareta Budner, − Jerzy Chróścikowski, − Zbigniew Silence, − Leszek Czarnobaj, − Grzegorz Czelej, − Jerzy Czerwiński, − Dorota Czudowska, − Wiesław Dobkowski, − Jan Dobrzyński, − Robert Dowhan, − Jarosław Duda, − Jerzy Fedorovich, − Peter Florek, − Robert Gaweł, − Adam Gawada, − Stanisław Gogacz, − Mieczysław Golba, − Arkadiusz Grabowski, − Thomas Grodzki, − Maciej Grubski, − Jan Hamerski, − Jan Maria Jackowski, − Andrzej Kaminski, − Stanisław Karczewski, − Wiesław Kilian, − Kazimierz Kleina, − Bogdan Klich, − Andrzej Kobiak, − Maria Sophia Blanket, − Stanisław Rogut, − Władysław Komarnicki, − Tadeusz Kopeć, − Margaret Kopiczko, − Waldemar Kraska, − Maciej Łuczak, − Józef Łyczak, − Richard Majer, − Robert Mammoths, − Marek Martynowski, − Łukasz Mikołajczyk, − Andrzej Mioduszewski, − Andrzej Bear, − Krzysztof Frost, − Grzegorz Napieralski, − Jarosław Oremski, − Bogusława Orzechowska, − Andrzej Spider, − Maria Paniczyk-Podziej, − Grzegorz Pekkis, − Marek Pęk, − Wojciech Piech, − Leszek Infantry, − Aleksander Pociej, − Marian the Messenger, − Michał Potkowiczny, − Krystian Probier, − Zdzisław Pupa, − Constantine Radziwiłł, − Marek Rocki, − Tadeusz Romanczuk, − Jadwiga Rotnicka, − Jan Rulewski, − Jarosław Rusiecki, − Sławomir Rybicki, − Czesław Ryszka, − Janina Sagatowska, − Michał Sewerynski, − Krzysztof Elephant, − Waldemar Sługocki, − Andrzej Stanisławek, − Lydia Staron, − Grażyna Sztark, − Aleksander Swed, − Antoni Szymanski, − Raphael the locksmith, − Przemysław Terminski, − Peter Wach, − Arthur Warzocha, − Jerzy Wczyła, − Kazimierz Wind, − Jacek Włosowicz, − Andrzej Wojtyla, − Alice the Hare, − Joseph the Hare, − Barbara Zdrojewska, − Piotr Zientarski, − Jan Zaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u281	The senators voted. Thank you. Now I ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. We're adjourned until 10:33 p.m. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 23 to 22 minutes 33]] We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: consent to the appeal of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drafted a secret ballot. I now pronounce the results of the vote. Protocol to the secret ballot of 7 July 2016 on the consent of the Senate to appeal Magdalena Gaj from the position of President of the Office for Electronic Communications. Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk and Senator Jerzy Wcisła, state that 66 votes, including 66 valid votes, were cast in a secret vote in respect of the Senate's consent to the appeal of Magdalena Gaj from the position of President of the Office for Electronic Communications. 54 senators voted in favour, 12 senators voted against, no abstentions. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the consent to dismiss Ms Magdalena Gaj from the position of President of the Office for Electronic Communications. In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. Dear Senators, I inform you that the agenda of the twenty-second Senate meeting has been exhausted. The next Senate meeting will take place on 20, 21 and 22 July and will begin at 11 a.m. The order of this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? Senator Jerzy Wczyła, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak. On 4 July, a small border traffic with Ukraine and the Russian Kaliningrad region was suspended, which facilitated the movement of residents in border regions of Poland and these countries in a limited space. Within a few years, small border traffic has become a reality accepted in all the regions in which it was introduced. It doesn't just serve to shop, it's not bad in itself. But also to facilitate the organisation of many projects. E.g. On July 1, 3, this year, when the suspension of the local border traffic was announced, together with the Russians, we organized regattas in the Vistula River. It is not surprising that the suspension of local border traffic has been misunderstood in the regions covered by it. The reason for the suspension of the local border traffic was given concern for security in Poland during the NATO Summit and World Youth Days connected with the visit of the Holy Father. While it is difficult to discuss with the need to ensure the security of these events, it is equally difficult to find links between the small border traffic and the threat to these events, including, above all, the terrorist threat. Therefore, please provide the following information. Has the local border traffic mechanism been used in the past by environments associated with or suspected of links with terrorism or organised crime? If so, what is the scale of this phenomenon? Please provide data on the number of facts detected in the past of breaches of local border traffic law, in particular as regards: attempts by unauthorised persons to cross the border, including those sought or suspected of committing crimes; smuggling through the border of weapons, drugs or other items indicating the use of local border traffic by organised criminal groups. If so, what is it? The facts relating to the answer to these questions and other facts relating to the operation of the local border traffic justify its temporary suspension? Were there any efforts that could possibly have caused the sealing of the local border traffic without suspending its operation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u283	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Interior and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. Dear Minister, A few months ago, bilingual tables with the names of railway stations were installed in the municipality of Chrząstowice in Opolskie Voivodeship. PKP PLK did this despite protests of numerous people and environments, including mine. I believe that these tables were unlawfully installed, contrary to the Act of 6 January 2005 on national and ethnic minorities and on regional language. It follows from an analysis of the legal provisions that it is based on Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this law is possible, after fulfilling the legal procedure, to use additional traditional names in the minority language only alongside official names of localities and physiographic objects and street names established in the Polish language on the basis of separate regulations. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the above law it was decided that the additional name of the locality or physiographic object in the minority language shall be deemed to have been established if it was entered in the register of municipalities. This register is a set of locality names. The Law therefore does not provide that the names in question should also apply to railway stations. Also, the Act of 29 August 2003 on the official names of localities and physiographic objects does not apply to the names of stations and railway stops. In particular, issues related to road traffic labelling are governed by the Regulation of the Infrastructure Ministers and the Interior and Administration of 31 July 2002 on road signs and signals, while the rules governing the inclusion of additional names in minority languages on the signs and tables are laid down by the Regulation of the Minister of Infrastructure of 10 August 2005 on the inclusion of additional names in the languages of national and ethnic minorities and in the regional language. Both acts shall not apply in the broad sense of rail traffic marking. It is therefore unacceptable, in this case, to use an extension interpretation and to refer to the rules relating to the name of the locality to determine the names of the railway stations. Even if they were Names of stations and railway stops It's the same as the name of the village. It should also be noted that the opinion of the Governmental Legislation Centre, expressed in the consultation process of the Minister of Infrastructure Regulation of 10 August 2005 on the inclusion of additional names in the languages of national and ethnic minorities and in the regional language to which the PKP PLK refers, concerns a legal act which does not have the slightest application in this regard, not to mention that opinions, even central offices, are not a source of law in the Polish legal system. I would also like to point out that issues related to the naming of railway stations are not an internal matter of PKP PLK, but they also concern a wide group of other people, for example. passengers. Therefore, as in the case of road marking, this is a matter which cannot be regulated other than in the common rules. Therefore, as well as in connection with the intervention of citizens, I request that these tables be removed with the double names of Polish and German railway stations in the municipality of Chrząstowice set in contradiction with the law in force in Poland. With respect, Senator of the Republic of Poland, Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-07-07-senat-22-2.u285	Thank you, Senator. That's it, right? I would like to inform you that the minutes of the twenty-second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 42]]
