ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Wojciech King, Krzysztof Truskolas, Krzysztof Kubow and Elżbieta Borowska. In the first part of the session, Mr Wojciech Król and Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Wojciech Król and Elżbieta Borowska. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9, - Economy and Development - h.m. 9.15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 10, - Legal notice - hour. 10, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 11.15, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 12, - Health together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 12, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 12.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - Constitutional responsibility - h.m. 13, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - h.m. 16, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 16, - Foreign Affairs - hour 18, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 20. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Belarus - 3 p.m. 10, - Parliamentary Air Quality Improvement Team in Poland - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Persons with disabilities - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 12, - Parliamentary Team of Tradition and Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers - hour. 12, - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Patients' rights - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Basic Health Care and Prevention - h.m. 14, - Parliamentary Group for Pro-Family Policy and Culture - h.m. 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Polish cities - hour 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question will be asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick and Mr Dariusz Kubiak on imposing an obligation on local government units to organise public collective transport in their territory. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Jerzy Szmit, will answer. The first question is asked by Mrs Bernadette Krynick. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 1 January 2017, the Public Collective Transport Act of 16 December 2010 will enter into force and related regulations which may pose a serious threat to the integrity of the public collective transport system in the country. The fundamental change resulting from the implementation of this law is the imposition on local government units of an obligation to organise public collective transport in their territory. Such a solution makes it the organiser - the governor, the governor, the mayor - and not, as so far, the entrepreneur, taking responsibility towards the public for the operation of collective public transport. Mostly due to the weak financial and organisational capacity of the majority of municipal and district authorities, the result of the introduction of this law may be a communications paralysis associated with the lack of access to collective communication of small villages and small towns, because no carrier will reach there due to the lack of relief and low profitability. This applies mainly to students commuting to schools, people with disabilities, pensioners, veterans. Minister, I have therefore a question as to whether the Ministry is planning to amend this law and whether or not it takes into account the delay in the implementation of this law in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u5	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Law on public collective transport, which was adopted in 2010, is indeed making a very profound change in the organisation of collective transport. It introduces new institutions: on the one hand, transport operators and, on the other hand, the public transport organiser, to which the relevant government is to be responsible, as mentioned by the Member in her question. The local authorities have therefore been burdened with this decision to choose between the different operators, between the different companies which will be entitled to compensation for reduced tickets. Because it is as if the essence of this system, that these compensations will be granted and transferred only to those enterprises that will be selected by the local government. Today we have a different situation. In order for the company to receive compensation for reduced tickets, it is sufficient to meet three conditions, namely: the company should be authorised to carry out regular services, use registering banks and conclude a contract with the local government. Then the money that is a grant from the state budget is transferred by the voivode to local governments and goes to companies that make trips and drive people on the basis of reduced tickets. We are aware that if the law were to come in its entirety in the form it was adopted in 2010, it could indeed cause the risks that the Member mentioned. A large part of the Polish area, especially small towns, could be excluded by communication and exclusion could deepen. Companies that win tenders... At the moment, even when the law has not yet fully entered into force, local authorities are organising tenders for entrepreneurs and it is known that if there is a tender, there is usually more willing and some companies will lose these tenders and therefore will not carry out journeys. It must also be borne in mind that large, strong companies will win the tenders, which will be able to offer better conditions on their own. However, unfortunately, we are afraid of this, and I share these concerns that this will be at the expense of those small towns where there is little traffic in which there is no big profit to be expected, a large stream of passengers, as is said in the transport economy, and therefore these companies will rather strive to reduce travel. It may therefore be so that when the town is small, access to collective transport may be hindered. Because we see all these threats, we go against the Senate initiative - as I know it has already been submitted in the Senate today - an extension of the vacathio legis of this law, or at least a part of it, which concerns those cases I am talking about, about 1 year. In this respect, the Act would enter into force on 1 January 2018, if it were the will of the Senate and then of the High House. We would like to use these more than 1.5 years to introduce changes to the law on the risks that you have mentioned here and on which there are also many environments, consumer environments, business environments, transporters, but also local authorities. We want to discuss these issues and we want to propose to the High House the form of a law which will prevent these threats, so that the journeys can continue in an undistorted way from 2018 and that communication coherence is not distorted, communication cohesion has not deteriorated. On the other hand, I would also like to make it clear and clear with regard to the various information that appeared in the media space that there will be no, there are no threats today. All those who want to travel need to travel, who need to drive and who commute to work every day, to schools, doing their duties, or for other reasons, can enjoy the relief, all those who deserve it. Please wait calmly for the work of Parliament, the work of the government that we have discussed here will solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Self-governments which are not legally obliged to organise public collective transport in their territory do not have any additional money to carry out such tasks. Their budgets lack resources for the implementation of basic investment tasks, not to mention finding additional resources for the organisation of public transport. There is no doubt that this will involve a number of financial expenditures which will not be covered by funds, e.g. the state budget. Moreover, for those local authorities that have not yet carried out such tasks, their possible implementation will require the employment of new people to handle this task. So what will be the social and financial impact of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u9	Thank you very much. Again, I ask the floor of Minister Jerzy Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The main cost, which is related to the implementation of this law, concerns the reimbursement of allowances, which are paid to entrepreneurs who in turn sell relief tickets to passengers. As far as the main one is concerned, it is more than ninety-six percent of the total cost of the system. This is the cost of the state budget and there are no threats here. This money is provided, as it was in previous years, in the state budget, were transferred from the central budget to the voivodeships, then from the voivodeships' budgets mainly to the marshals. There's no danger here. On the other hand, this problem, which you mentioned, concerning the costs, above all, of administrative costs, the organisation of invitations to tender, the supervision of transport, actually exists. And this time I mentioned, this year, which will be extended vacathio legis, we also want to use to look at this problem and how we can address it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u11	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska and Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The question is about the announcement of the liquidation of the World War II Museum in Gdansk. He is headed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage will answer Mr Jarosław Sellin. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska asks the first question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, If you don't mind, three of them are gonna turn into two questions. Let me ask you a question first. When the 2016 budget was presented in the Committee on Culture and Media, we heard for the first time that the new Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 Wars would be set up in Gdansk. It seemed a little strange to set up such a separate institution, while, as we know, the construction, creation and organization of the Museum of the Second World War is coming to an end in Gdańsk. There were various perturbations, but it was the Museum of World War II with a very rich exhibition program, as well as an excellent architectural project, which was supposed to be not so much a local initiative, but just one that brings Europe closer, and not just Europe, rather twisted fates of Poland, especially during World War II. It was one of the flagship investments of the past years and, as I say, there were some kind of problems and problems, but there is no doubt that it was to be implemented. Then it was said that perhaps two museums in one place... They said it was okay. Except it turned out, and it turned out this year, April 15th, that instead of two museums in one place... It turned out that actually the Museum of World War II with a huge achievement and in the sphere of culture, and in the exhibition sphere actually ceases to function and exist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, perhaps all of this will focus on the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, and it seems that this war did not end in 1939. That is why we allow ourselves to ask the Minister: What was the basis for this kind of decision? Why does the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage cross out both scientific and exhibition, cultural, the sense of creating such an institution?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u13	Madame, it is time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u14	I'm almost done, Marshal. Isn't that to the detriment of Polish historical policy and identity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u15	Thank you very much, Member. The question is answered by Minister Jarosław Sellin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, First, I want to overthrow a myth that emerged during the public debate on this subject in the last two weeks. I don't know what that means. In the slightest suspicion... I'd like to suspect that this is only due to a lack of understanding of official documents. Well, April 15th this year. Minister of Culture and National Heritage Prof. Piotr Gliński announced the will to combine two museums telling about the history of World War II in Gdańsk, not to liquidate one of them, but to merge. So there's no intention of eliminating anything, there's only the will to merge. However, in order to understand where such a decision was made and what was in its background, one has to go back a little bit, and refer to history. Well, in 2006, 10 years ago, when Law and Justice ruled, the then Pomeranian voivode appointed a proxy to create the Westerplatte Museum. We thought that this place, commonly known to Poles as well as foreigners, a place of symbol, also commonly visited, because a lot of people come to Westerplatte, is not well exposed. In fact, there is nothing to see, also when it comes to getting acquainted with the details of this 7-day battle and with details of Polish resistance in 1939, it is also about exposing the artifacts that survived there. Therefore, we wanted to make such an attractive place, because this is also an attractive area for sightseeing, the outdoor and narrative museum was created for the anniversary of the outbreak of World War II in 2009. We had three years to do this, but a year later, the Civic Platform won power. At first it seemed that he would like to continue these plans that we had, because - I ask you very much to pay attention to this fact and remember this fact - the Minister of Culture in the Government of the Civic Platform Bogdan Zdrojewski on 1 September 2008, i.e. on a very symbolic day, created the Westerplatte Museum as a state institution of culture. Only after 3 months - apparently some discussion had to take place inside the governing party or government - the name of the Westerplatte Museum was changed to the World War II Museum and the story began that in Gdańsk the history of the whole World War II had to be presented in a universal way, with a Polish accent, of course, with a Polish narrative about this World War II, with Polish specificity. It was different, and there was this discussion between historians and publicists. They were presented with different concepts, they were modified. In any case, the Westerplatte Museum has been found not to exist, but to be the World War II Museum. And the Civic Platform government only established in January 2011 a multi-annual government programme for the construction of the II World War Museum, which was to be implemented until 2014. In 2014 we were to have an open World War II museum. The amount of PLN 358 million has been allocated in this long-term government programme, a rather amazing sum, because no programme, as far as the museums built in Poland are concerned - these new ones, built after 1989 - did not amount to such a sum. Probably only in the case of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews it was comparable, but I think it was also less, about 300 million PLN. Due to the terrible choice of a place to build this museum - in a port pool where a few meters thick concrete swimming pool had to be poured out, because it was considered that the museum was to be in the underground and not on the ground - in April 2015 the long-term government program was changed so that it turned out that the whole building would cost almost PLN 450 million. Adding to this almost PLN 50 million for the maintenance of the already existing museum, we have the sum of PLN 0.5 billion - investment and maintenance of this museum - already programmed in the state budget. Such a museum investment has not yet been so expensive in Poland. Of course, when it comes to the Westerplatte Museum, an attractive outdoor and narrative museum, it was estimated at PLN 80 million. That's six, seven times less. Let me put it this way: indeed, very much money has already been spent, very much money has been planned. We have a grudge against it, we have a right to have a grudge against it, and we have a right to see if that money was properly used. But the investment has really gone so far that it cannot be undone. That's what I'm saying very clearly. On the other hand, when it comes to caring about public funds, it is not for us to explain ourselves, but for the former rulers. Why would it cost so much? Why did it cost so much? Why should a Polish taxpayer spend PLN 0.5 billion on a museum? When we returned to power, we decided that we needed to return to the idea of the Westerplatte Museum and the War of 1939, and we set up this museum. We have estimated the costs, including those that I have just assessed in the Museum of World War II, and we have considered that, for organisational, institutional and financial reasons, it is better to combine these two initiatives, because it will be more efficient and more cost-effective, also when it comes to spending funds. So since this announcement came out, since April 14th, the Minister of Culture has been 3 months old. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to make an institutional and financial analysis of both museums and, after 3 months, to make a final decision on the institutional shape of these museums. I repeat: we are not closing anything, we are combining two initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. And I would like to ask you an additional question from Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With all due respect, Minister, don't tell us that combining these two institutions is not a liquidation. The merger of the World War II Museum with the Westerplatte Museum and the new name is practically the destruction of a long-term project and the breaking of existing contracts. Construction of the permanent exhibition is already 90% completed and dedicated to the entire building, the completion of construction works is to take place in November this year. The Minister wanted to return to the history of this museum. We're here, not in another place. Let's move on. Such a decision is at the same time the elimination of a very large part of the exposure, such a decision will not only have financial consequences. What will happen, Minister, with the exhibits? Thousands of People [[♪ The bell ♪]] He gave away the greatest... If you don't mind, just a moment. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u19	Please, just go to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u20	Thousands of people gave away the most precious family relics. You can destroy historians, but you have to have respect for family memory. It would also be a waste of the opportunity to take a Polish voice in the discussion about these tragic events in the history of humanity, because today this voice and this discussion is provided by the international composition of the college of programming museum. These are outstanding historians led by Professor Norman Davies. If we combine these institutions, it will not last either. I have a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u22	Good. If I may, I'll just ask you a question. Can the Minister afford to repay PLN 50 million of the donation of the city of Gdansk to the Museum of World War II?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u23	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much and very...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u24	Can I ask you one more question?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u25	You can't do that, Member. You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u26	I have one more question. [[The Vice Marshal shuts down the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u27	Thank you kindly. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to watch your time. Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska has received more than a minute extra time, and Mrs Chmiel has too. So I ask all of you to comply with this limit. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We do not have enough time, Mr Marshal.]] I wouldn't want a situation like this just now that I'm gonna have to turn off the microphone. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! I would like to reassure the Member of the same constituency, Mrs Chmiel. There are few things that the Ministry of Culture cares so much about over divisions as the security of museum collections. I don't know why you're starting this hysteria and there's this suspicion that the security of museum collections, especially deposits that families have been giving away... It's just not true. Again, we're planning a merger of museums, not their liquidation. That means the harvest is safe. The collections will be exhibited, the most valuable ones, in the museum that will tell about World War II in the place where it was planned. So don't tell me things like that, because it's just not true. Of course, you can have different doubts about the properties of displaying some collections, for example. many art historians or militari lovers wonder why one of the most valuable exhibits that was acquired by the World War II Museum, namely the American Sherman tank, was just put into a concrete bathtub, then it will be bricked with a roof and it will never be able to, and it is an efficient tank, go into the city and for example. advertise this museum through some anniversary trips around. [[Minister...]] Yeah, because that's what you do, that's what you do. Such attractive forms promotions are also used. However, such a precious exhibit will simply lie in some cellar several dozen meters underground in a concrete bathtub. One can argue that, in my opinion it was not well thought out and unwise. On the other hand, as far as the plot is concerned, the City Council of Gdansk decided that it would pass on this plot, about the value that you defined for museum purposes, in order to talk about the history of World War II here. And tell me, and what does the Minister of Culture say? That there will be a story of World War II or not? Of course it will be. So there's no danger that this plot will be destined for another purpose here. On the other hand, Mrs Gdansk's authorities, if they wanted to take this plot in a violent way, I would draw the attention of the authorities of Gdansk to the fact that they will also have to take what was built on it when they receive this plot. I don't know if the authorities of Gdansk are ready for this. So this whole discussion is really unnecessary, it's unnecessary to be nervous about it. Please wait patiently, until mid-July we have time, by mid-July a decision will be made about the organizational form of the story of the Second World War in Gdańsk through two museums that are built there. The organizational form is open, anything is possible. One museum can be a subsidiary of another museum or vice versa, all options are on the table and all options are possible. The final decision will be taken by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[In the title of corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam for correction, I would only ask that this be a correction, not a few minutes' notice. [[Aye, aye, Marshal.]] You're welcome. Time - 1 minute to correct.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u30	Minister, please don't say that if the name changes, the city has no right to apply for a refund of 50 million. The donation was only for the World War II Museum - that is once. The second - I wanted to correct, Minister, I am telling the truth, because many people, when it comes to exhibits, address the director of the museum, the current director, or take their family souvenirs... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: And what is the answer?]] ...because only on the condition that it was for the World War II Museum, they passed on these family relics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u31	Thank you, Member. And we move on to the next question. This time the question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo and Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski and Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, on the decision to merge two separate museum institutions, the Museum of the Second World War, and will be the Westerplatte Museum and the 1939 War. The question is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. Minister Jarosław Sellin will also answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The first question is asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u32	Thank you very much. Minister, you've basically answered all the questions, but there's another thing that's bothering me. You're running away from such a very important answer, which I think is the liquidation of the World War II Museum, because you... I don't know what happened to you, you're an envoy, we're from the same district, and you've come up with the idea of combining two museums, which means you're destroying the idea. For me it is the fundamental difference, it is another narrative - the Museum of World War II and the museum of defence war. We go all over the world into this... We deprive ourselves of such rhetoric in order to overthrow the opinion of the uneducated West, I say so, which all the time claims that the war in 1939 - there are many such moments - this is the Polish-German war. The Russians celebrate in another edition another date of the start of World War II, the Americans start at all with Pearl Harbor. We take away the narrative completely. I would like to remind you one more thing, Minister, because I asked you a very precise question in the Committee on Culture and Media when we discussed the budget. I asked you a question, you were with Prime Minister Gliński, how these two museums should work, one on paper, the other, practically finished. And you gave me a very clear answer that the priority is the World War II Museum, because it's a huge investment, and the Westerplatte Museum will be by the way, because it's really a mess. I understand all this, we agree here, but why can't they operate on the Coast two museums? Why can't we have a World War II museum that has a completely different meaning for tourists, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the citizens of Pomerania and not only, are you the only one who comes up with a brilliant idea at some point and announces the kind of bomb that the whole world is reacting to? I'd love to hear it. What happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u33	Thank you. And please respond to Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Since we're talking in the Committee on Culture and Media, I wouldn't want to use the phrase that you're asking cleverly, just like you used the phrase that I'm running cunningly because it's not true. Other phrases, I think, should be used. I think the culture committee was in January. Please note that when you've been in the department for a month and you've been analyzing documents, and you're getting knowledge, it's something that comes out of this analysis of documents. We just came to the conclusion, after a few months of analysis, also for the reasons I was talking about just now... about the financial boom around the initiative, which is the Museum of World War II, in recent years. We have come to the conclusion that we need to rationalise and organize and institutionally and financially these two initiatives. And once again, there's no liquidation plan here, but here's the plan to merge both museums. [[Liquidation.]] I agree with you that we need a Polish historical policy narrative that will overthrow many stereotypes, many myths, impose or at least try to impose a Polish viewpoint on our particular fate during World War II, because this knowledge... is not known to foreigners, but also to our citizens, I think, the right narrative in this matter would be more useful. We want to talk through our institutions, museum institutions, Polish historical institutions, museums about this particularity, and this specificity, in my opinion, is roughly five things. First of all, the story of the fact that it started here and that Poles were the first to fight immediately with two totalitarians at once, actually saving the honor of the free world. Secondly, that it was here that the greatest atrocities of the German and Soviet occupation took place, with an unprecedented attempt to murder one nation and murder the entire elite of the other nation, I speak of Jews and Poles, of course, that there was the most bloody land here, as Timothy Snyder wrote, that it was here that the strongest and largest underground state in occupied Europe was created, both politically and militaryly, that only here there was no organized collaboration with the German invader of structures representing the nation, that Poles were the fourth largest allied army and fought on all fronts of World War II - it should be told very thoroughly and compared with the efforts of other nations, because here there are also a lot of stereotypes and there is much ignorance about the Polish contribution to the military history of World War II - and that in Warsaw two urban uprisings, including Jewish as the first and then Polish as the second, in the whole occupied Europe, and that the Warsaw uprising was actually the longest battle of World War II. Yeah, we want to talk about it. How to read in the planned narrative of the permanent director of the Museum II World War, it is possible to discuss whether it is realized, because the temptation of universalism, the temptation of a universal story about World War II with the temptation to show Polish specificity, the Polish narrative in this museum means that it is not easy to balance the proportions. As there is too much of this universal story in proportion, there is no room for a Polish story. This is what we are discussing and we will continue to discuss, we want it to be the best breaking stereotypes and showing the real Polish contribution to World War II and the Polish fate in World War II. We will certainly pursue this with the current director of the World War II Museum, with the historians whom you have mentioned here, who are involved, we will discuss this. But the main goal of what we did in mid-April is not to start some over-programming discussion, because it can be done through, I don't know, some meetings or conferences, and institutional-organization-financial rationalization, because here we have the basis for serious doubts whether this initiative was conducted rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. And I ask for an additional question, which will also be asked by Mr Grzegorz Furgo.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u36	However, Minister, you are running away from the answer, because you said - I agree absolutely with you - about this narrative that it is necessary to show what happened after the outbreak of World War II that there were two uprisings, we agree, only because I do not understand why you narrowed it down to 1939, that is a completely different sound, to which you did not answer me. 1939 - we celebrate and celebrate defeat all the time. I asked you a specific question. There are some dates in the world that are absolutely wrong, and we all know when this war started, and you're taking away one decision. - I don't know why it wasn't consulted more widely, after all it was possible to consult - you are announcing a bomb about combining these two museums, as if giving a completely different name, because really, the Museum of Defence War 1939 is a completely different narrative than the Museum of World War II, which is finished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's like a substance. That's what I'd like to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u37	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Certainly, if you ask what Gdansk is associated with when it comes to World War II, it is primarily Westerplatte, with the Polish Post, but I think it is better that you know that there was a powerful battle nearby in the defence of Gdynia, that is, the battle at Kępa Oxywska, and the defense of Hel until the end of the defence war in 1939. There is actually nowhere anywhere, so far, in any institution in Poland such a detailed story, there is no detailed story about Westerplatte, about this seven-day battle at Westerplatte, there is no story, except for those boards which are, but, as I say, it can be done more attractively, because the artifacts have preserved and specific places have remained, which slightly exposed can run this wonderful story. There is also no museum, which is very detailed about this defensive effort of Poland in 1939. Gdansk is ideal for doing this story. The Museum of World War II was created, there is a desire to talk more about Polish fate during World War II, with temptation even universalism, and it is very advanced. Once again, we do not want to eliminate this acquis, we just want to combine these efforts, while all options are possible, I am quite clear, all options are possible. During the 2.5 months remaining, the final organizational shape of these museums in Gdansk will be decided. Since this initiative is so advanced, surely the story of the Second World War will be fully told in Gdańsk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u39	Thank you, Minister, no further questions. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u40	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question will be asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, a question on the functioning of special economic zones is addressed to the Minister of Development. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz will answer. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u41	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Special economic zones are isolated administrative areas where entrepreneurs can benefit from public aid in the form of income tax exemptions for the cost of new investment or job creation. Since the start of operations in special economic zones, companies have invested over PLN 100 billion, employing over 290 thousand. employees. Today they operate in 146 cities and 210 municipalities in Poland. I will give an example of the Wałbrzych Special Economic Zone as one of the largest and most dynamically developing zones in Poland, awarded and awarded in many competitions. It has 48 locations in south-western Poland, in the immediate vicinity of the Czech Republic and Germany. He works with local governments, he works with universities. Today, it brings together 184 investors, guarantees more than 44 thousand. jobs and invested more than 21 billion investments. Minister! The previous government has doubled the functioning of special zones. First in 2008 - by 2020 and second time in 2013, extending their existence to 2026, i.e. for the next 10 years the zones will function. However, for the entire technological process, the acquisition of new investors, from the moment of the decision to the construction of the plant, this is not a long time. Are the plans of the Ministry to create further economic zones, possibly whether there are and will be decisions about expanding economic zones in the near future? What development plans for the functioning of special economic zones are presented by the Polish government today, and what future does the Polish government see when it comes to the functioning of special economic zones after 2026? Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u42	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is not the first question I answer in this Sejm about special economic zones. Special economic zones move the imagination of many Poles, many MEPs peculiarly and particularly interested in them. Many figures have been cited by the Member. Yeah, that's right, we have a lot of activity in them. However, this is also such a moment, and we must say it clearly to ourselves, that another was a feature and another was the task of special economic zones when they were created in Poland, while others are tasks and other goals we should give them today. And such an overview of the zones, this zone policy the government is currently developing. I hope that I will soon be able to present you with a full document on the new zone policy. I answer the questions in turn. Is it planned to create new, next economic zones? No, we do not plan to create further zones, but we are still actively observing those zones that are and the proposals that have been submitted are being examined at the Ministry of Development. All I can say is that when it comes to proposals that were two years behind and waiting for enlargement, one of them was adopted two weeks ago, and another two, I think, will be adopted in the coming weeks at the Council of Ministers. What we're asking for is... One of these basic evaluation criteria e.g. Expansion of the zone were jobs. They are still important, but we are also aware that what else is a new place of work in the new place mentioned by Mrs Wałbrzych or another, e.g. Wroclaw Special Economic Zone, and what else in Suwałska, right? Here this weight of the workplace certainly matters and there, on the east wall, every place of work is at the weight of gold. And what else is a place of work on the western wall, where we should be more prudent in dedicating this public aid. If we offer it, then the workplace should have a specific character. Today we attach great importance to the fact that the Polish economy is becoming more innovative and less imitation, so using a zone instrument, we would like to see these conditions met. As far as the expansion of special economic zones is concerned, it is also worth remembering that today the total area of special economic zones is used in 75%, so that is why we are particularly looking at further proposals in order to primarily manage those areas that are. And also what we ask of zone management companies is a survey of the land, because we know that in several places the area is covered by land on which investment is virtually impossible due to the energy infrastructure carried out above the plot and sale or placement of anything there is not possible. So, like I said, it's an active review. We will not create new ones, but in these existing ones it is possible to expand with a qualitative assessment of the potential investments there. Another question. What development plans for the functioning of special economic zones are presented by the Polish government? I've answered that question in part. We know that, as a general rule, the current policy will continue with the indication and consideration of these specific criteria which I mentioned earlier, precisely those innovative ones, concerning investment placement, in which we will have, for example. R &amp; D investment, R &amp; D, where R &amp; D centres will be established. One such investment in the Pomeranian zone, I hope, will soon be able to say. She's very interesting. So that we have such an active investment dialogue. And one last question. What will be the future, and what about the zones after 2026? Of course, you also mentioned that this investment stability and belief in the conditions for investment - the investment is not for a year or for two years when a production hall is being built or production lines are set up - are important. On the other hand, there is one condition that we must remember, which is not entirely dependent on us, namely that we do not yet know the rules for granting public aid in the European Union after 2020, so it is difficult to reliably draw up a forecast for the functioning of special economic zones after 2026. We can ensure that investors who are authorised to operate in the zone by the end of 2020 can operate in the zones by the end of 2026 and that we can formulate the full forecast, knowing the principles of state aid in the European Union in 2021 and 2027. Regardless of these committee decisions related to the rules of granting, we will prepare and have, I hope, the opportunity to present it to you shortly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will also be asked by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u45	Thank you very much. Minister! As an economist, I find it difficult to disagree with you. Indeed, this development strategy is predictable and must be adapted to the dynamically changing circumstances, as well as investment data, perception of the technologies and investments that are on the ground. But I have this additional question: Are there any preferential conditions for building or creating zones in rural areas? And what about the programme for Silesia concerning such painless restructuring on the example of building these economic zones? And I have one question coming up from the region, because I know that in the Wałbrzych economic zone the city and the municipality of Pleszew are trying to expand: does the minister see opportunities to expand this economic zone for this municipality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u46	Thank you very much. And again, please speak to Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u47	Special economic zones in rural areas - we are thinking about it, because the zone is not the only instrument for providing public aid in this range that the state has. That's why we're thinking about it. As we look at the map of zones - I sometimes regret that we cannot show here a presentation, answering your questions - on the density and quantity of investments on the western wall, in this south-western piece of Poland, which, as I say, and so according to all macroeconomic data stands very high, we see that it is very densely woven, while this part of Poland, which we want to value and actually support under the programme of sustainable, responsible development, is a desert, there are no zones. The question is whether to create new bodies, new companies that will manage these places, or to use other specially envisaged public aid instruments. Such instruments are. She asked about rural areas, it is on the east wall that we have the Eastern Poland Operational Programme, where there are a lot of instruments that will support, then they also attract potential investors, also to benefit from public aid without the need to create a special economic zone. This seems to be a more flexible instrument at the moment, which can be helpful. Here we look at how the Czechs and Slovaks do it, who do not have zones as such, special management companies, but mark on their map areas of particular concern precisely in terms of income and share in the GDP of the whole country, and there they dedicate the aid. Like I said, they don't make special companies. Pleszew - yes, I know, I know the problem. We're also talking about this, just like I talked to the authorities of all the zones, that before we expand... We would not want the zone to be a gift, where the ribbon is cut, but to be a real instrument for attracting interesting investments. So let's first tell ourselves what could be there, because since the creation of the zone, there are no jobs. You have to have a plan, a business plan for what you want to do there. So we have such an active dialogue, and I think that, as I say, depending on what the local authorities and the management of the zone want to present there, that will be the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u48	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Łukasz Schreiber and Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, ask a question about the plans of the Ministry of Health regarding the availability of proton therapy in our country for the sick. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Krzysztof Łanda will answer. The first question is asked by Mr Łukasz Schreiber. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Our question concerns proton therapy, which is not a provision available in our country. The exception is proton therapy of eye cancers, carried out at the Bronowice Cyclotron Centre at the Institute of Nuclear Physics in Krakow. Proton therapy is not today a provision included in the list of guaranteed benefits or a provision valued by the NFZ. We know, of course, that this is excellent therapy, which gives great results, but we also know that the cost of treatment determined on the basis of an individual treatment plan is very high. In Europe it is between 16 and 60,000. The euro, in the United States or Japan, is still several times higher. In Poland, for example, the cost of treating melanoma as a procedure contracted separately by the NFZ is about 53 thousand. zł. Today Poles are waiting, the health resort of previous governments has already announced plans several times. However, proton therapy is very expensive, as I have already mentioned, which should also be taken into account. Today, patients from Poland most often go to Prague, where there is the nearest resort offering such treatments. Hence our question: What plans does the Ministry of Health have regarding the availability of proton therapy for patients in Poland? Is there any chance that this treatment will be provided on the list of guaranteed benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u50	Thank you very much. And I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u51	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! This problem will be resolved in a moment. Maybe I'll start at the end. The tariff was published by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technology and Tarification 2 weeks ago, while the entry into the basket, the expansion of the basket is now carried out through the regulations of the Minister of Health. And at the moment, on 27 April, we received the last opinion of the relevant national consultant on the indications for this procedure, i.e. prototherapy, and we request that these provisions enter into force 14 days after publication. Therefore, the procedure should be available for Polish patients from 1 June 2016. So, as I say, the problem is solved, but I owe you a few explanations in this connection, because indeed the process of entering into the basket and setting tariffs was extended over time. What was the result? Well, first of all, technology is actually very expensive. On the other hand, it concerns the indication of ultra-rare or ultra-rare indications, because when it comes to cancers of eye melanoma, the entry in the basket was earlier, while we considered the application for another four groups of medical indications. All these indications, as I repeat, are ultra-rare indications and therefore relate to less than one person in 50,000. residents. Therefore, of course, we could not apply the utilitarian approach, i.e. the ordinary economic analysis, and the reference of the cost of obtaining the health effect to the so-called. the cost-effectiveness threshold that is adopted for medicines. This technology had to be treated in a special way, but there was indeed a number of elements that had to be identified and deal with. Of course, we also see that Polish patients go to proton therapy abroad, especially in Prague, and therefore follow them, the modest summa summarum, the resources available to the NFZ. Therefore, of course, we wanted to make this procedure available to Poles as soon as possible. However, we had a few difficulties here. Firstly, the purchase and construction of the prototherapy facility and equipment together with the accelerator, with the cyclotron, were financed by scientific means, ladies and gentlemen. It was therefore necessary to consider what is the model, let us call it, the financing of this centre - whether only the National Health Fund should actually bear the costs of a prototherapy centre and whether research is also carried out there, and not only health services, and whether the fixed costs should be included in the calculations which concern the issue of the tariff or the creation of the valuation of this benefit. We have come to the conclusion that we should not take the fixed costs into account when using prototherapy tariffs, because they were financed from scientific sources, and that part of the functioning of the centre will also concern research and not the provision of health services in strict sense. In addition, we have had shortcomings, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of persons who would deal with the basket of guaranteed benefits. I would like to remind you that almost no one dealt with the basket of guaranteed benefits last year, but at the moment we actually have three high-end specialists at the Ministry of Health who are already starting to work on the basket, and we have already launched dozens of people from the National Health Fund branches. It is still not satisfactory to work on the basket, because these resources are still small, but in the end we already have these people. We had two more problems with the cab fare and putting it in the basket. Well, first of all, we obtained falsified cost data and had to verify it, second, there were reports in April and March that questioned the use of this method in the indication: glioblastoma multiforme and pericore cancers in children. We had to explain these doubts. As I say, they were explained, the tariff was announced 2 weeks ago, the entry in the basket will be made any moment, the therapy will be available from 1 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. And I'd like to ask you for an additional question. Mr... [[Tadeusz Dziuba.]] Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, of course. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As asked by a colleague, the Minister has focused on what is, and I would like, in addition, to run a little further into the future and ask about the intention of your department for an initiative that has been organized for several years now and is under the incomprehensible motto: INPRONKO. This shortcut comes from the first letters of three keywords: innovation, proton therapy and oncology. The Marshals and the authorities of the five western Poland voivodships reached an agreement. Under the aegis of this project, they have organised 19 scientific and medical centres and intend to implement 17 research packages, but which are of a research nature and at the same time are of a clinical nature. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In addition, medical centres are also involved in this project. For this project there is already a saved program. Question: "What is the attitude of the Ministry authorities towards this initiative?"
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u54	As regards the development of prototherapy in Poland, we really see these initiatives. I had a number of conversations, also with the rectors of medical universities in Poland, especially as regards Poznań and Warsaw, on this matter. The question is that the development of prototherapy in Poland depends, in my opinion, on how applicants would like to finance further prototherapy centres in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countries where there are few indications for prototherapy in the basket of guaranteed benefits. Other indications, in turn, are financed through scientific research. In some countries, for example in Denmark, there are many indications. In a small country such as Denmark, as many as 1,000 people are currently being treated for prototherapy, so the range of indications is very wide. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Krakow Centre is concerned, we need to see how it will implement its development and implementation plans. It seems to me that, in part, funding for the functioning of this institute should be provided by means of science, as research will be carried out there, while some of the resources should be from the NFZ. I think that the treatment opportunities reach around 250 patients per year in Krakow. That's what the NFZ money is for right now. The number of these patients corresponds to those indications that will now be entered in the basket - plus the indications for the eye. On the other hand, it seems to me that some of the funds for the functioning of this institute should come from the export of benefits, i.e. patients from other countries should come to us and treat themselves in Poland. If this model works out, it seems to me that the development of prototherapy in Poland will be absolutely justified, but if not, then, I think, we must be very careful, and the potential development of prototherapy must correspond to the absolutely most important health needs that are in Poland. It seems to me that one centre at the moment in relation to the indications that are in the basket is adequate. So, as I say, it depends on how the export of benefits and research will be carried out. Then it will only be possible to decide on the possible development of further centres [[♪ The bell ♪]] prototherapy in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u55	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by Cezary Grabarczyk and Vladimir Nykiel. This is a question about the launch of a special reserve called "Hospitia" in the Łódź voivodship. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Minister Piotr Warczyński. Mr Grabarczyk will be the first question to be asked by Mr Cezary Grabarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the 8th term of office, the proposals put forward by the opposition are very rarely taken into account, but during the work on the 2016 budget, the amendment prepared by me to create a special reserve for the Łódź hospice and to allocate 20 million to the hospice in the entire Łódź voivodship has been taken into account. I thank all those who have supported this amendment, but for the past few weeks, those who run the hospice have come to my office, those who organize the palliative aid, and ask: When will we be able to reach for these measures because our people need them? To this day, we do not know when this reserve will be launched when the Ministry of Health will determine the rules for access to these measures. The matter is important and urgent, as budgetary resources must be used for the financial year in question. We have the end of April, it will soon be too late for these measures to be used effectively, and only in the Łódź voivodship do we have 52 centres which provide palliative and hospice assistance at the moment. That's why I'm rephrasing the question: When and on what terms they're going to be launched. [[♪ The bell ♪]] appropriations from the special-purpose reserve in item (s). 84 budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u57	Thank you. Please take the floor of Minister Piotr Warczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u58	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, We have here, despite the high purpose and very good intentions, a very great difficulty in realizing and spending these funds, which have been defined in the special reserve under the name "Hospitia" in the Łódź voivodship. The spending of public funds included in the special provisions can only take place on the basis of the rules of general law. Such provisions are the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Public Procurement Act, which clearly indicate that special-purpose reserves can only be issued in situations where there is a legal basis for issuing these funds. That's the legal basis we don't have right now. Therefore, in order for these funds to be spent, such a legal basis should exist. And here comes a series of questions and a number of problems that the attorneys of the Ministry of Health are currently working on, because such a legal basis must be included in the bill. It's hard to imagine that in the system bill, which is, for example, The law on medicinal activities and the legislation on all medicinal entities included a delegation on the possibility of spending funds exclusively for hospices and only in the Łódź voivodship. However, I want to assure you that we are trying to find a solution to this situation. To return to the part of the Member's question, I would like to say that the Minister for Health will not lay down the rules, because these principles are strictly set out in the laws I mentioned earlier. Later, the Minister of Finance will run this reserve, not the Minister of Health. However, it seems that such a legal basis should be included in one of the acts which are the responsibility of the Minister of Health. So, in conclusion, it should be said that three steps are needed to spend this special reserve. Firstly, it is the creation of a legal basis, with full consequences of the procedure for amending the law, secondly, it must be the request of the authorising officer to mobilise such a budgetary reserve, and it seems that the only possible authorising officer will be the Łódź voivode, because this is defined exclusively for the Łódź voivodship, and finally the mobilisation of the special reserve by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u59	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Nykiel. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I don't think it's good if the Deputy Minister of Health doesn't know how to spend the funds already allocated to the hospice, and it's like it's explained in advance that they might not be released. However, I want to move on to another issue, namely 20 million for hospices in the Łódź voivodship. But work on the new budget will soon be undertaken and long-term policy is also important. Against this background, the question arises: What is the concept of hospice policy across the country in the coming years, what is the assessment of needs in this area, and what will be the funding for these needs in the coming years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u61	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister again.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, Well, the Minister of Health really has a problem with that, not just the Minister of Health, because also the Minister of Finance... [[Let him handle it.]] First of all, the law has a problem with this, because the flaw of this solution was born with the request to create such a special reserve. So it's not... [[It's where people die.]] Mr President, at this point such a remark is completely inappropriate. On the other hand, speaking about the policy that the Minister of Health will be running on long-term care and hospice care across the country, because the Minister of Health can only do so on a national scale, I would like to remind you, of course, to refer to what awaits us in some time, i.e. the ageing of society, the development of chronic diseases. Of course, it's not going to happen, it's going to swell these problems in a few years, it's going to be in a dozen or so years, but it's going to have to be prepared for them. And such preparations are preparations for a new valuation, which is what Minister Łanda has already mentioned in part, the work of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification concerning the valuation of palliative and hospice care. Such work is currently ongoing, and I think that within probably a month, we will have new service tariffs in this area within two months. The second important information concerns the decision to ensure that palliative care and hospice care, like oncology care, are care free of limits, i.e. unlimited care. So all the benefits provided in these areas will simply be financed by the National Health Fund. I think that these two facts related to the real, real valuation of health services in this area and, at the same time, the limitlessness of benefits will make us prepared for a time when we need much more benefits and entities operating in palliative and hospice care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. The next question will be asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczyński, Mr Jan Kilian and Mrs Małgorzata Golińska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The question on the merger of primary school branches is addressed to the Minister of National Education. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Maciej Kopeć will answer. The first question will be asked by Mr Aleksander Mr Forczynski and Mrs Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Elections warn that in primary schools, with a decreasing number of pupils in classes zero, first, second and third, local governments are proposing to parents to form associations to take over schools. Another proposed solution is to combine classes, e.g. children from zero branches are included in the first classes, children from first classes to second classes, even third classes. So it happens that there are three units in one unit. Minister! Such practices resemble practices from the years of the Polish People's Republic, when there were no teachers in schools. In the 21st century, in the middle of the European Union, can primary education bodies be allowed to do this?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u65	Minister! Mr. Marshal! The uncertain future, lack of work or housing leads young people to make difficult decisions about leaving, whether to larger centres or abroad, or to resign from having more than one child. The problem of gradual depopulation is particularly evident in the areas from which I come: small towns, rural communities of popegeer. As a result, local authorities decided to liquidate schools or create school teams, and in schools with particularly difficult demographic conditions, the organisation of teaching in combined classes was allowed. The lower demographics also result in teachers losing their jobs. Priority should, of course, be the student's well-being and the possibility of attending school at the nearest place of his residence. The reorganizations of school networks give little savings in the budget of the municipality. Combining branches is controversial, it brings many difficulties for teachers also due to the organisation. The effects are not always satisfactory. The decision of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland of the current term to withdraw the educational revolution concerning 6-year-olds and to restore parents' ability to decide about their children is also used to ignore the demographic problem, to blame parents and the ruling majority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please state whether the Ministry is considering a different approach to the financing of small rural schools. Are other options considered that will result in rural schools and especially rural children having the chance to learn under the same or similar conditions as students from large cities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u66	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Minister Maciej Kopcia to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There are several very different legal problems in these questions. I'll try to refer to them. I would like to point out that the possibility for local governments to transfer schools to direct them to natural persons and legal persons other than local government units took place in 2009 by amending the Law on the system of education. In other words, then it was possible for the local government unit to transfer to a natural or legal person a school in which no more than 70 pupils attend. This transmission was possible after obtaining a positive opinion of the education curator. So I would like to point out that this type of action is undoubtedly further in need of such an opinion. I'm sure the current school curators will lean deeply on it. On the other hand, this provision further guarantees that this school remains accessible to the public, free of charge, that it is a public school. The transfer does not result in liquidation or a complete loss of influence of the local government. In other words, the government continues to subsidize it, it can preserve the circuit that was. The local government unit retains the right to monitor compliance with the conditions under which the school was transferred. The body that took over the school can't eliminate it freely, it can only give up running it. It is then re-acquired by the local government. As regards the activities that were undertaken in the previous period, i.e. in 2009 and 2015, 234 primary schools, nine secondary schools, two upper secondary schools were submitted at the time. Either way, it's 1.73%. primary schools, if you look at the aspect that functions in the education system. As regards the liquidation of schools, other activities were also undertaken, which consisted in the fact that the self-government units had liquidated their schools, while including them as public schools run by another body. As far as such activities are concerned, they have resulted in lower costs for the local government, because teachers were not employed on the basis of the Teacher's Charter at the time. In addition, the Supreme Audit Chamber pointed to the negative side of such actions, indicating that it was among others. The result was that the teacher's working time from the mandatory 18 hours was extended to 23 hours and the salary fell by approximately 40%. On the other hand, in the case of the changes that have taken place today, i.e. in accordance with the amendment of the Act on the Education System, or rather the Act of 29 December 2015, the powers of the school curator have been changed. They deal with the issue of school networks, and above all they deal with issues related to school closures. According to the provisions of 2009, i.e. from the previous period, the guardian's opinion was not mandatory in this case, but according to the provisions which entered into force on 23 January, this opinion issued in the form of a provision is mandatory. And now, referring to this issue, I would add that the actions of local governments stem from the gateway that was created by the 2009 amendment of the law, but also, you can say, a certain tactic of local governments, which indicated that schools should not be liquidated in the year in which local elections take place. In other words, the apogee of primary school liquidation took place in the school year 2008/2009, then 263 primary schools were missing, and the second critical moment was the school year 2012/2013, then 222 primary schools were lost. On the other hand, I would also like to say that the mere amendment and amendment of the law, the strengthening of the probation officer's powers and the entry into force of this on 23 January did not change the situation in itself, although the probation officer's orders became mandatory. In fact, this phenomenon of giving positive opinions was inhibited at the moment of changing the curators of education, so a little later. As far as combined classes are concerned, the rules currently allow for such organisation, which is the result of the 2001 Regulation. They allow the combination of classes in primary school, but also define the conditions, i.e. the rule speaks of particularly difficult demographic or geographical conditions. In fact, it is possible to combine classes in the 6-year-old pre-school ward and classes in Class I, while the school head is responsible for organising such classes, and the detailed rules govern them, in other words requiring the school head to adapt the framework curriculum to each of the combined classes so that the curriculum can be implemented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As regards the issues involved, the Director also takes care of the students. At the moment, it is difficult for me to answer the question of how dynamic this process is. So far it has been clearly decreasing, i.e. in 2012 the combined classes represented 9.1% , in 2015 - 8,3%.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u68	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mr Jan Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to a phenomenon that took place especially in the end of 2015. In many places Poland started the procedure of closing small schools, especially small municipal schools. It was kind of a shot at the tape when it was realized that the Law and Justice government would defend such schools. Many such schools are currently in the process of closing, one of which is their primary school. John Paul II in Piecach in the Oldgard district in Pomerania. I realize, of course, that we are on the eve of a certain coup in education so as not to say the Copenhagen coup, but I dare say that without special government help it will be difficult to succeed. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister an additional question: Are there any other options besides the probation officer's decision? [[♪ The bell ♪]] other mechanisms to improve the situation of such schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u70	Thank you. And again, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u71	I wanted, Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, to draw attention to two things, even more emphatically. As far as these positive provisions of the education curator are concerned, actually with the number of schools that really amounted to 219, where there were students, such positive opinions were 110. I wanted to stress that they were issued until the school's curators changed. In fact, after a change in education curators These are at most individual cases where such positive opinions would be issued. In other words, the current school curators have successfully halted this process. On the other hand, the second issue concerns subsidization, which is the whole educational system. The discussion has been going on for weeks. One of the ways that is being discussed is to move away from the current system of subsidies or subsidies, not in such a way that money follows the student, but to subsidise the school branches. The second option concerns special provisions that would protect small schools, i.e. the introduction of rules which would otherwise subsidise, by another way of applying weights that exist in the subsidy system. Work is underway, and the outcome of this work will be announced on 27 June following the end of the debate cycle. I would like to stress that there is also a discussion on the issue of changing the school obligation of six-year-olds and the functioning of local governments. The subsidy is calculated for the previous year, i.e. for this year it was calculated as at 15 September 2015, so there are really no risks until the end of 2016. Work will be undertaken on how this system will operate from 1 January 2017, i.e. when there is a new budget. I also wanted to remind you, because there was this discussion that there was no six-year-old in kindergarten, there's a kindergarten teacher. Six-year-old boy's in school. In fact, it's a primary school student from class I to class VI. In other words, other finances are needed for the operation of a six-year-old in kindergarten and others for a primary school student. Whereas work is underway to finance the operation of a six-year-old when he is in kindergarten, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But, of course, it's real to what the cost of this operation actually is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u72	Thank you. I understand that the Member is being corrected. Here you go, one minute to corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We thank you for this broad explanation, but we have not heard concrete answers to the problem that exists. The problem is, for example. problem of school in Myśligoszcz in the municipality of Debrzno. I know the school has 80 people. There are children in integration classes and there are still children in combined classes. I would ask a person one question: Would you like your child to be, for example. in class II, where children of Class I, Zeroes and Class would be III? I don't think so, I don't think so. We ask: What should we say today to these directors, to these teachers and, above all, to children? Because a child on a very good level will probably manage, a great teacher will manage. What about the others? Minister, what's today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u74	Thank you. Will the Minister respond?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Speaker! I would like to remind you that we are operating in a legal system that has been defined for the last eight years. The issue that you are talking about is, above all, the conscience of the local government which makes such decisions. This is a matter of action taken by the local government. On the other hand, the debate on funding, which is to correct what has been corrupted over the last few years, is just taking place and systematic action will be possible together with a change in the whole educational system. Then there will be concrete solutions. It is not that the system or the Minister of Education will be affected by local councillors by the magic wand at the moment. I would like to say that I carried out this peregrination myself in the districts of Warsaw and really the reactions of local government, in this case - the districts of Warsaw, unfortunately, were often very negative, although I was just trying to appeal for such actions to take into account not to create a situation that would appear in schools, for example. Two shifts by such actions, by force, by purely financial action, by pushing six-year-olds into schools, whether in classes I or in zero wards. Besides, I wanted to say that at a conference in Berlin where Minister Zalewska was present, the translator did not know such a concept as double change. This is, of course, a problem that exists. Those problems that have been created over the past few years will be gradually resolved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. And we move on to the next question. Mr Marek Wójcik and Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, ask a question about stopping the execution of the sentence of imprisonment against a convicted person for violating the immunity of a civil servant. The question is addressed to the Minister of Justice. Mr Robert Hernand, Deputy Attorney General, is responsible. Mr Marek Wójcik is the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! The Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobro, acting as the Attorney General, decided to suspend the execution of the sentence and to initiate a pardon procedure against Marcin F. convicted of violation of the bodily integrity of a police officer. This decision aroused a righteous outrage to the public, especially to police officers. It is particularly shocking that the convicted officer committed an assault on a police officer, acting under the conditions of redecision. The Minister's decision concerns the convicted Martin F., but at the same time creates an atmosphere of consent for attacks on police officers. In recent days, the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office have avoided answering the question about the reasons why Minister Zbigniew Ziobra made this very controversial decision. Therefore, Mr Prosecutor, we expect you to inform Members of why Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, acting as the Attorney General, has decided to suspend the execution of the sentence against the person who was convicted of violating the immunity of a police officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u79	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen, In order to clarify the fundamentals which lie within the scope of the powers of the national prosecutor, who by letter dated 27 April gave a written reply, I would like to point out that I am standing here with respect for the High House. There is a fundamental problem as to whether this answer lies in the question under Article. 196 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, because the basic thing is that the pardon procedure is governed by Article. 139 basic law and Article. 560.568 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It must be stressed that the procedural actions undertaken by the competent authorities during the procedure for pardon are part of the activities covered by this Code of Criminal Procedure. Access to the file of the Attorney General in matters of pardon shall therefore take place by means of rules governing access to criminal proceedings, i.e. the standards of the Article. 156 Code of Criminal Procedure. As a result, the pardon procedure is a limited disclosure procedure in which certain documents are not even available to parties and other persons within the meaning of Article. 1 paragraph 1 Act of 6 September 2001 on access to public information. The pardon procedure is therefore specific in nature and concerns an individual case. It also has to do with the president's prerogatives. The transparency of this procedure, both at the stage of judicial and prosecutorial proceedings and at the stage of proceedings before the President of the Republic of Poland, is limited to the parties to the proceedings. I refer to the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 5 March 2015, sygn. I OSK 1948/14. It is therefore authorised to believe that the pending pardon procedure does not fall within the normative scope of the concept of the current case within the meaning of Article. 196 resolutions of the Sejm. With regard to the matter under consideration in the present case, it should also be noted that according to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Regulation No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents may be refused, inter alia. for the protection of legal proceedings. In conformity with Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 of that Regulation, restrictions on access to public documents may include cases where a decision has not yet been taken by the institution if disclosure of such a document would seriously undermine the decision-making process, unless the public interest is in favour of disclosure. On the matter of formal law and the question of the Member. In the beginning, given the respect for the High House and the fact that the matter is undoubtedly of public interest, as the Member has already pointed out at the beginning, I kindly inform the Member and the High House that on 21 March 2016 the Minister for Justice - the Prosecutor General, acting in accordance with Article. 7 § Article 2 and Article 2 13 § 2 of the Act of 28 January 2016. The Law on the Prosecutor's Office gave my humble person, as Deputy Prosecutor General, an order to initiate ex officio pardon proceedings based on the content of the article. 567 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and suspension under Article. 568 Code of Criminal Procedure for Mr. Martin F. Penalty. By order of 22 March 2016, under the authority of the Attorney General, I initiated such proceedings on the basis of the conditions laid down in Article. 567 § 1 and Art. 568 Code of Criminal Procedure after hearing what is worth emphasising, with the request of the convicted defender of 28 January 2016 to the Public Prosecutor's Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. This concerns the conviction of Mr Marcin F. by judgment of 17 September 2015, ref. II K 915/14, by the District Court in Warsaw for the act of art. § 222 § 1 of the Penal Code and in no way in the content of the plea the personal data of the sentenced person have not been disclosed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] there was no plea of action in the recidivism, including Article. 64. Therefore, in addition to the fact that a pardon procedure was initiated, I applied for an opinion before the courts of both instances. Only after consulting the courts of both instances will the Attorney General decide to refer a position to the President in the exercise of the right of grace or not to exercise the right of grace, because such a right of the Attorney General has, and the mere fact that a pardon procedure is initiated does not prejudge the final decision in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u80	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. District Attorney! Don't you think that this kind of reaction from the authorities will, first of all, result in a sense of impunity among the participants of all manifestations, and in the police, a disorder of the state's sense of protection against their actions and a failure to act so as not to be accused of excessive brutality? In view of the fact that during your reply you mentioned the limited transparency of this procedure, I would like to ask you what is the classification clause, who and for what reasons decided to secretly initiate the pardon procedure. Here's your request for a marshal. We are applying for a protocol to send these documents, which you spoke about, to the secret law firm to get acquainted with them, because, together with Mr Wójcik, as Members, we are working on another term of office in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which, as you know, is, among other things, held by Mr Wójcik. supervision of the police, and this is the reason for an important social interest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We want to get to know these materials. One more request, Mr. Marshal. The prosecutor mentioned that on 27 April a letter was received, the Minister of Justice replied in this case. We don't have it, we're asking you to share it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u82	Thank you. I'm asking the D.A. to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u83	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, First of all, this is not covered by any classified clause. Art. 156, as I have pointed out, concerns judicial and preparatory proceedings for the provision of materials and for this reason alone there is a reduction in transparency in the general sense. On the other hand, there is no non-disclosure clause of this procedure, because the non-disclosure clause, as we know exactly, is defined by the applicable law and defines the groups of documents which concern this issue. So we're dealing with an art. 156, or the mystery of conduct in a general sense, not in the sense of secrecy. Thus, there are no elements of secrecy that concern this particular procedure. It's obvious. As regards the first part of the Member's question, I do not think that there is any question here that would affect the behaviour of police officers who, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, are obliged to take certain measures under the Police Act, as well as other provisions that regulate the behaviour of police officers at different stages of the action. On the other hand, I would just like to say, by the way, that the whole essence of the operation of the police services in this area was that this assembly was considered illegal because there was no notification, or notification, of this assembly 3 days before the beginning. Of course, we have to remember that a recipe that has a character... There is a presumption of constitutionality of a provision at the time when the Sejm or the widely understood Parliament adopt these provisions. On the other hand, the Constitutional Tribunal in September 2014 considered the same provision on the obligation to notify the assembly 3 days before the beginning to be non-constitutional. I do not wish to combine these two facts, but I would just like to inform you of this. Once again, I would like to stress that the very fact that a pardon procedure has been initiated and an appeal to the court for an opinion has already begun means that, in general, the views of the court will be taken into account by the Attorney General in asking the President to take advantage or not to exercise the right of grace. At the time when the Attorney General decides not to exercise that right, the decision to suspend the execution of the sentence after the President has taken a decision in this regard automatically by law shall cease to have any legal force in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u84	Thank you. Mr Wójcik, as I understand it, in the correction mode, yes? One minute to corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u85	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! When we prepared the question, we did not know who would answer this question, whether it would be the prosecutor or the minister of justice. We didn't know exactly what the status of these documents was. We accept the Minister's translation of the status of these documents and confidentiality in the course of the proceedings, and we both know very well that, in accordance with the applicable rules, especially after the amendment of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the prosecutor has the opportunity to make such documents available and has the possibility to make public information from the proceedings. Therefore, we ask that documents be made available to the secret law firm so that, within the framework of our duties relating to the supervision of police activities, we have the opportunity to familiarize ourselves with these documents. We also ask you to consider making these documents public, because we believe that there is an important public interest in this, which is indeed controversial around the matter, but also concerns about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Officers are wondering if their business will be properly protected when the situation in which they will remain during...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u86	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u87	...in their service, attacked. And they're gonna suffer some damage. Thank you. [[Deputy Attorney General Robert Hernand: May I?]] Of course, Mr. District Attorney. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u88	Mr. Speaker! Of course, this is a question of prosecutorial files, which is an element of the case that is currently in the National Public Prosecutor's Office, but we must also remember that we have a judicial file that is much broader in its content. As regards access to the file, the court shall be competent to make it available. We can, of course, make an appropriate written request available on the basis of the article. 156 only to the extent that the Attorney General has at his disposal at the time when he initiated and is at his stage. Under no circumstances can we make available those materials that are in court files after the final conviction has been passed. It is only so that, on a purely formal matter, I am speaking to the Member, so that we can fully understand each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. District Attorney. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz and Mr Marek Suski, the Law and Justice Club, will ask a question about the modernisation of railway line No. 8 of Warsaw-Radom relations. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, Minister Piotr Stomma, will answer. Please ask me to ask you a question. The first question is asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Modernization of railway line No 8 Warsaw - Radom is an investment that has been mentioned for many years. This investment was originally to be completed under the SLD, later in 2012, 2014. Unfortunately, this investment is still not being carried out for good. Thanks to the efforts of the Government of Law and Justice, the modernisation of railway line No 8 was included in the EU programmes in 2005 and 2007. A substantial amount of PLN 1.5 billion was also guaranteed for the implementation of this investment. Unfortunately, the failing governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have caused that this period of 8 years has in practically no way contributed to the completion of this task, to the modernisation of railway line No 8 in section Warsaw - Radom. In order to save EU funding for this investment, it has been decided in recent years to do so. the phasing-in of these activities. As part of this stage, the modernization of the section from Warsaw-Okcę and Radom stations was completed. Unfortunately, there is still a crucial section between Warka and Radom, a section where traffic is only one track, where there is no second track, which is called the episode. The narrow throat of this railway artery. Therefore, my question to the Ministry: At what stage are work on the modernisation of railway line 8 at the moment? Can these works be intensified in the coming years so that this modernization is completed as soon as possible, and the traffic on section Warsaw - Radom by railway No. 8 took place in less than 1 hour?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u92	Dear Marshal, Dear ladies and gentlemen, I fully share the Member's diagnosis in the question. I would like to stress very strongly that the efficient modernisation of the infrastructure connecting Radom and Warsaw is a clear priority of the current government. This task is all the more important because, as the Member has stressed, the project has been struggling with a number of problems resulting in a delay in its implementation. This often consisted of elementary negligence, e.g. on the imprecise designation of the boundaries of the real estate. The scope of the design documentation was changed and the noise level rules changed, which required design changes. There was a dispute between PKP PLK and the contractor at a certain stage. Of course, I don't just want to state the facts, I just want to say that they're stuck here, there are reasons for that, and mostly they're negligence, lack of professionalism. In fact, eight years have been lost here. Currently, the project - as funded by EU funds - is supervised by the managing authority, i.e. Ministry of Development, and intermediate institution, i.e. the Centre for EU Transport Projects. However, the office of Minister of Infrastructure and Construction under ownership supervision - these are limited competences - also for its part it covers this project with special supervision. Here I can say that the task consists of four basic parts. The task concerning the Radom station has been accomplished, while all the other sections have problems. Mr Czachówek mentioned in particular the phase-out of this section of Warsaw-Okęcie - Czachówek. The phase-out means that there were delays in the earlier period, that the possibility of using and using EU funds that had previously been involved had to be saved. I confirm that here is full mobilisation in the entire system related to the Ministry of Development, on our part too. From the point of view of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, we pay particular attention to this. Appropriate recommendations have been made towards the infrastructure manager, because on the section to Czachówek these works on one track consequently lead to great ailments for passengers. We notice that. Increased staff on duty. At the moment, it is increased - 17 on-call workers work on this section. There are five technical teams, there is a fast path of agreement with PKP Energy. We're trying to minimize trouble. With regard to the section Czachówek - Warka, or 20 km, here as part of the investment of the autumn of last year, the predecessors in the project system have announced a tender, and today we know that of course the matter was not prepared, the tender is impossible until all the work has been carried out that will enable the environmental decision to be issued. So last year - an apparent success, and today - a naked truth. The project is completely unprepared. The same can be said about the episode of Wark - Radom, i.e. 47 kilometers. This section includes a bridge on Pilica. Here the situation is similar: the tender was launched last autumn. This has not been prepared, there is the problem of environmental decision. Therefore, the deadlines which have been declared so far concerning the subsequent stages of the implementation of this project, i.e. the planning by the predecessors of the signing of the agreements for March 2017 has not yet had an appropriate basis. I am not afraid to say this because, at the same time, I am saying that we are working on environmental decision so that this process is controlled and that I can answer the question of what realistic deadlines are for signing contracts and ending investments. If I say that these terms are unrealistic today, then I do not want to say that they will be extended. We're working on getting that time cut short. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, a fully credible response in this matter requires work. Well, maybe I've made the most of this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u93	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will also be asked by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! You mentioned that there were, or were, elementary negligence, omissions, lack of professionalism. Will those responsible for this investment therefore suffer any consequences? Once that it is a long-term delay, two that it is a loss of financial resources that is inexpensive, because it is about 1,200 million zlotys that have not been used for this investment, which must result in someone making a decision on this matter. Another case concerns the episode between Wark and Radom. Until now, we have been informed by the politicians of the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party that there are already divisions of parcels, there are land buyouts, there are environmental arrangements. So what about these arrangements and those decisions that have already been made and made? Will they not lose weight in these relevant documents, or will they also be used in subsequent activities [[♪ The bell ♪]] which state are you undertaking in connection with the construction of the second track and modernization of the entire railway line on the Warka - Radom section? And one last question. When can we expect this investment to end? Really, so that we can tell the people of Radom that this investment will finally end happily. Yet, if the marshal will permit, one small request. If this investment has such significant, serious delays, is it still necessary to send trains hurried by the Lublin Voivodeship? On the section of Warsaw - Radom trains rush through Dęblin. In view of the fact that the track between Wark and Radom is still open, would it not be appropriate for trains to continue on this shortest straight road between Radom and Warsaw through Warka?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u95	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u96	Thank you, Marshal. About responsibility. This responsibility has been established to the extent available, the composition of the Management Board has been changed, the persons responsible for carrying out the investment have not worked since the end of last year. There are matters relating to the remuneration of these persons. There's a bonus component, it's also an attempt to give an opinion, there's a dispute about it. If there are further arrangements indicating a breach of the obligations to be assessed under criminal law, we will not hesitate to do so. At the moment, the completed new board gives hope that clarification will take place in this respect. And the last question that's been asked. It's about the end of the investment. Generally speaking, the deadline is 2021. This is how it was planned by the predecessors, and I feel obliged to inform them. The rigidity of the investment preparation process does not allow for extremely good news. As I said, we are trying to work to reduce these deadlines despite difficulties and delays. As regards the episode Wark - Radom, I would ask you to accept such an undertaking that details of which documents will remain valid and which procedures we will have to repeat will be presented separately in writing. The question about how to drive in relation to Radom will be answered as part of the work on the new timetable. This cycle has begun at this moment and we will try to implement the request. [[♪ The bell ♪]] which the Member has presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski and Mrs Teresa Nolas, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask a question about the difficult situation in the milk market and the remedial action in this direction. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister Jacek Bogucki will answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Głuchowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u98	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Trade unions, including the Trade Union of Individual Farmers (Solidarity), agricultural chambers, other agricultural organisations organise meetings, often with us, Minister. Several times we were together at a meeting where we discussed, among others. problems of the dairy industry. This negative situation and individual system require urgent solutions, Minister. Failure to act, including those of a statutory nature, may result in the collapse of many farms and processing plants, as the end of the reduction in milk prices You can't see. The rates paid to farmers for milk fell again last month. As indicated by the GUS data, the average price of white raw material for the last month, March, was about 1 PLN per litre and is 12.5% lower than the price offered by dairy companies in the same period of the previous year. Average buying-in price already in five voivodships fell below 1 PLN, and there are dairy houses, which pay only 60.70 gr. Similarly, the adverse situation concerns milk products. Butter prices are falling - they are already at 10% lower than the current intervention price of EUR 2,40 per kg - and on the hard cheese market Polish products face strong competition. German and French cheeses are sold below all costs, their price is PLN 7.50 per kg. Under Polish conditions, the production of hard cheese at such a price would have to mean buying raw material, i.e. milk, below 60 gr. It should be pointed out that the abolition of milk quotas has had more disastrous effects than could have been imagined. In the absence of an appropriate market policy, the profitability of milk production is becoming increasingly threatened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it possible, Minister, to see what is actually milk production in our country and what is its processing? This will make it possible to determine whether raw milk from abroad is not processed in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u99	Thank you, sir. And I ask Minister Jack Bogucki to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be noted first of all that the current situation in the dairy sector is mainly due to imbalances on the Union and world markets resulting from increased milk supply on the European markets on the one hand and reduced demand on the other hand, particularly in China, but also the Russian embargo on the other. It is also due to the abolition of milk quota and previous decisions. The need to sell increased quantities of milk on the international market causes price pressure and results in low prices and consequently cost-effectiveness problems, as these effects are ultimately passed on to farmers. Given that markets are covered by common rules in the European Union's agricultural policy, all aid measures require and agree and action taken at European Commission level at EU level. Therefore, given the deteriorating price situation and the consequences of exceeding the milk quotas in the last quota year and the decline, reduced profitability and financial liquidity of many dairy farms, the Ministry of Agriculture since November. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. Thus Poland in its conclusions pointed to the critical situation on the milk market and asked for decisive and effective action, including the allocation of additional resources to support milk producers - except for those which were launched in September Ub. r. - as well as increasing intervention prices for butter and milk powder and stepping up measures to open up new markets outside the European Union, to abolish the Russian embargo, to mobilise export subsidies to third markets. We have requested that the excess milk quotas fees, the two instalments remaining to be paid to farmers, i.e. in 2016 and 2017, be abolished. In addition, Poland has requested the creation of a legal basis for fair margins for producers in the food chain. In response to the requests made by Poland and already supported by other European countries - because this happened, contrary to what happened in previous years, that Polish proposals on this matter have already been supported by several European countries - the European Commission has submitted a package of support to stabilise the situation. The buying-in limit for butter for skimmed milk has been doubled. Intervention purchases have also been extended and this form of aid is therefore continued. This should allow for the disposal of surpluses, but Poland continues to argue that buying in intervention itself, without selling it outside the EU market, will not solve the problem. Provisions have also been adopted allowing producer organisations, associations, dairy cooperatives to conclude voluntary agreements to reduce milk production. We believe that this mechanism is also too ineffective, because a voluntary reduction in one country will not result in a reduction across the Union. These should be the same for all EU countries. The European Commission is also proposing aid of up to 15 000. the euro for farmers who would freeze or reduce production. We are proposing that this assistance should come from the EU budget and not from national budgets. The promotion measures have also been increased by EUR 30 million, including: to promote the dairy sector, from the European Union's funds. We still find these mechanisms insufficient, so on 11 April we have again requested additional measures, those I have already mentioned, and the allocation of funds from the European Union budget, including, if necessary, the mobilisation of the crisis reserve. Unfortunately, most EU countries do not support this proposal. The Ministry of Agriculture has also taken action to assist farmers. We have allocated an additional €28.9 million per zloty from the national budget, so for milk and livestock producers in total [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have allocated PLN 245 million. We are also working on the preparation of strategies for long-term actions supporting Polish dairy industry. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Teresa Nolas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u102	Minister! Thank you very much on behalf of my colleague Krzysztof Głuchowski for these explanations. We really want to recognise the work of the Ministry in this difficult dairy market, but not only, and we know that Minister Jurgiel's resort is doing a lot to reverse this situation as far as possible. I would like to ask an additional question, it arises from the question of my predecessor, but it would probably give us... would resolve some doubts about whether raw milk is coming to Poland from abroad. The question is whether the quantity of milk produced by farmers, concentrated by Polish operators, is balanced on our market with the quantity of products already after processing. And one more thing, Minister, the question is, it is indeed also due to this difficult situation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Would it be possible, and if so, to influence the blocking of imports of dairy products at dumped prices? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u103	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Statistical data show that Poland sells more milk and dairy products outside Poland than in Poland. Of course, this intra-EU trade, in particular, is a free trade, there is no ban on the carriage of goods, therefore administrative restrictions on imports of milk into Poland and the export of milk from Poland are not present, but we have already asked Mrs. Beata Szydło's government at the beginning of her work, when Minister Jurgiel took the position of Minister of Agriculture, to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection to analyse these phenomena - whether there is no unfair competition or whether there are no measures in the field of dumping prices. We're also working on changing the rules resulting from... - I will talk more about this in a moment, in answer to the next question I will talk about it more about - about a law which is to improve Polish law in this respect, because in discussions with the office we came to the conclusion that the current law does not allow full verification of the situation and for full intervention on the part of Poland. But we need to realise that Poland is an exporter in the dairy sector, but several percent of Polish milk production is on balance, so by balancing milk flows and flows, it goes to markets outside Poland, it usually goes to the markets of the European Union, but also some of it goes to third markets. So, in dealing with these important issues, I would like to say that we have such signals that some companies buy milk from outside Poland, and we are at the stage of analysis, as far as this is a broad phenomenon, as far as it violates fair competition and as much as Poland can counter such practices. However, regulating the milk market and ensuring that the price is at least a price covering at least the cost of production is very difficult. We raised, even as an opposition, in the previous term of office the problem of giving up milk quotas, we thought that this was the only solution that was able to [[♪ The bell ♪]] stabilise the market. Unfortunately, the actions of the Polish government at the time were not such as to allow the quota of milk to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to Question 11. The question is asked by Marek Kwitek and Szymon Giżyński, the Law and Justice Club, on government action to combat unfair commercial practices in the marketing of agricultural and food products to suppliers of these products - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. You are the first question to be asked by Marek Kwitek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The agri-food market in Poland continues to be a highly fragmented and unstable market, with unfair commercial practices being applied at the vast majority of stages of the food supply process. To a very large extent, the lack of contractual contracts is the reason for instability in the market. Without them, it will be impossible to achieve a level playing field between producers, processors, traders and to adapt supply to demand by planning production. This action may reduce unfair commercial practices and stabilise the incomes of family farms. Minister, producers are complaining about the dictatorship of processing plants and foreign trade networks, which are committed to monopolising the market and applying price collusiveness. I believe that proper relations between suppliers and recipients of agricultural and food products provide the basis for the development of the agri-food industry and guarantee the possibility of investment and innovation. Polish farmers will not defend themselves. They need State macro-economic support. The government has mechanisms to control processing plants that have received EU subsidies to improve the competitiveness of agriculture. At this point, the question arises as to whether the beneficiaries were cleared of the aid received, in particular whether it was spent as intended. Minister, what kind of action is the government going to take to combat unfair trade practices in agricultural products against their suppliers? What steps the government plans to take to stabilise the agri-food market and introduce contractual agreements [[♪ The bell ♪]] especially in the soft fruit market? And whether any security measures are foreseen for the so-called. small farmers who do not have the possibility to negotiate prices? Does the government intend to undertake work to establish a mutual assistance fund to stabilise agricultural incomes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u107	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Mr Jacek Bogucki, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A good relationship between all links is essential for the proper functioning of the food supply chain. The structure of this chain makes it particularly vulnerable to unfair commercial practices. The problem of imbalance among the participants in the chain is not only present in Poland, but also in most countries of the European Union and is important due to the presence of highly consolidated entities in the processing sector, and especially distribution, against weaker, fragmented operators producing agricultural and food products. In the opinion of suppliers of agricultural and food products, the practice of forcing buyers, including in particular large-area shops, on providers of unfair contract terms, one-sided termination of these contracts, as well as forcing a number of additional payments which have nothing to do with the contract concluded or forcing them to purchase unnecessary services, unjustified extension of payment deadlines for the goods delivered. Unfair commercial practices are usually imposed in a situation of imbalance by the stronger side of the weaker side, and unfair practices at the level of food distribution weaken the financial condition of food producers and agricultural raw materials and thus reduce the quality of the goods produced, reduce the investment potential of food producers and reduce innovative activities. These factors have a negative impact on the consumer. Measures existing in the Polish legal system to counter unfair practices, although formally available without restrictions, are practically not used during contracts due to reprisals applied by buyers to suppliers who would undertake such an attempt. Although the problem concerns most European Union countries, the Community institutions have so far not taken effective action to defend suppliers, and most countries themselves under national legislation address this problem. A report from the European Commission has recently appeared indicating problems in this area. Unfortunately, Poland has been assessed as one of the countries in which this situation is the worst. Unfortunately, despite this report, no Community action is envisaged in this regard. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has undertaken a draft regulation on this issue, a draft law regulating the area of food supply from producers of agricultural raw materials, through food producers, to the trade sector. We take into account the proposals made by producer organisations of the various industries, as well as the experience of other Member States. In the work on this bill in Poland, solutions adopted in other countries are used, but most of all national conditions are taken into account. The draft law will soon be addressed to a broad public consultation at all stages of the food chain in order to best adapt solutions to the expectations raised. The scope of the bill is also consulted on an ongoing basis, during meetings of the Ministry's management with industry and trade organisations and we want to forward this draft to the consultation in a short time, as soon as possible next month. The project will also cover the contracting agreements between farmers, agricultural producers and processors mentioned by your Member. Although this obligation was already introduced last year by the previous government, but since the deadline for concluding such an agreement has not been set and sanctions have not been laid down for the absence of such an agreement, this provision seems to be a dead provision. At the moment, in the form of surveys, we collect information from various organizations about how this law introduced last year works and whether our opinions on its low effectiveness are consistent with the facts. We will propose strengthening these mechanisms by introducing sanctions and, on the other hand, by setting deadlines for concluding an agreement. Under the current law, it may happen that when a farmer brings his product for sale, a contract is signed with the issuing of an invoice and this meets the requirements of the current law, so it is such a incomplete solution. At the same time, during meetings with representatives [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have proposed the development of a code of good commercial practices that goes beyond the scope of legislation. We've set up a team that's working on these kinds of solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u109	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mr Simon Giżyński. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u110	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Office for Competition and Consumer Protection should play a very important role in combating unfair commercial practices. Unfortunately, complaints made to this institution by food producers remain ineffective in so far long-term practice. The Authority does not see the signs of illegal activities, concealing the fact that the law in this respect is not precise. This is also evident in the soft fruit market, where prices can fall sharply within a week. How do I explain to the sadist that a litre of blackcurrant juice in 5 years has been used up by several percent, and the price of a kilogram of these fruits has fallen tenfold? Why doesn't the UOKiK see any price conspiracy when selling soft fruit? Is there a lack of appropriate legal regulations? Is work in progress at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law on changing the functioning of the OKIK in order to improve the effectiveness of this important institution? What tools and mechanisms should be equipped with [[♪ The bell ♪]] President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection in case of finding practices using a contractual advantage against weaker counterparties? Will a catalogue of unfair practices be introduced, particularly concerning abuse of the contractual advantage of sellers vis-à-vis suppliers? One last question. What sanctions should be imposed for the use of unfair practices vis-à-vis suppliers? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u111	Thank you very much. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u112	Indeed, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection informs that its capacity under the current law is very limited. Monopolistic position is when the company owns 60% market share, and in general there are no such situations in the Polish food sector. At the same time, often in order to benefit from the law, the victim must go to court and, if it is for the operation of the office, must declare such a fact in an official form. This certainly makes it difficult to proceed, especially in the light of such behaviours, that those companies which decide to challenge dishonest partners are often later persecuted by a large proportion of the operators operating on the market. The experience of other countries shows that the problem is not easy to regulate, because every European country has a problem with unfair practices, but unfortunately in Poland, as I have already mentioned, according to the European Commission report, the situation in this area is one of the worst in Europe. We are therefore working on a law in which we want to resolve all the issues that he has mentioned, in terms of price comparisons, in terms of the use of unfair practices. We want to write down that this type of practice should be pursued, not on request, but by the public. This will allow the office to enter when it receives any signal, also unsigned by the person who informs about such practice, and if, on the basis of market analyses, it comes to the conclusion that there may be suspicion of unfair practice, it will have the right to take action. We define a catalogue of unfair practices, although we want to define this catalogue in such a way that it is an open directory, because the definition of a closed catalogue of unfair practices would involve the danger of future solutions being found by dishonest counterparties in a short time, practices that could also avoid legal solutions. Penalties for such practices must simply be proportionate to the level of the offence, to the degree of guilt [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the part of that entity which applies unfair practices and must be severe enough not to encourage their use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights submitted a report on: the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws; the draft act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Commission for Social Policy and Family Policy submitted a report on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, Marshal of the Sejm, decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at the present meeting of the Sejm information on additional tax burdens of Poles and not helping borrowers, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, will be discussed. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, representatives of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Krystian Jarubas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u114	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I am pleased to present a request for current information addressed to the Prime Minister. Dear Prime Minister, By proposing new laws, representatives of the PiS assured that they were not associated with new burdens for citizens. These assurances prove to be false. The plans of the Ministry of Environment include the introduction of a tax that affects all Poles. The draft Law amending the Water Law introduces an additional fee for water. According to the Ministry's data, thanks to the payment to the budget, an additional PLN 4 billion will come from the pockets of Poles. This fee will be associated with the ownership of the property, which guarantees the increase of current accounts, i.e. so-called. Rainwater tax. It will be especially felt by farmers. It is well known that rising water prices will affect higher prices, among others. food. It's not the only government initiative. In addition, the plans include the introduction of a tax that affects everyone, the introduction of an audiovisual fee, which is commonly called a media tax. No one will avoid any additional tribute, as this fee will be added to each electricity bill. [[That's populism.]] Unsolved issue, probably due to numerous protests by merchants, remains theoretically the tax on large-area shops. Knowing the practice of the current Minister of Finance, the tax will apply to all small shopkeepers, which will result in higher prices. Taxes for Poles are being introduced very quickly. The issue of aid to mortgage-holders remains unresolved, but it was one of the key elements of both President Andrzej Duda and Law and Justice's electoral campaign. In view of concerns about the excessive burden on Poles with additional taxes, we are asking the Prime Minister with the following questions. Dear Prime Minister, when and how high Will the Poles be charged extra taxes on water? When and how high Will Poles be charged with additional media taxes? When and how much will the store tax be introduced? When will the aid be activated for people with mortgage loans? Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u115	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u116	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say that the draft Water Law Act is a condition of the so-called. ex ante when using EU funds. Poland has failed to fulfil one of the basic conditions of the Water Framework Directive, namely the principle of the reimbursement of water services. This reimbursement of the costs of water services is partly carried out in water and sewage undertakings. Every resident who has a collective supply of water has a meter, a water meter. If he doesn't have one, he has to pay a high flat rate at the moment. Thanks to this solution, on a city scale, water consumption fell more than twice, from 210 l/day to 90 l. But this did not solve the matter of the general principle of the reimbursement of the costs of water services, in other words, covering all the costs associated with water management through a certain economic balance. And that's what the Water Law Act is supposed to do. The fees that are foreseen, on the one hand, are not new charges, they function, among others. In many cities there are already rainwater charges, on the other hand, these charges do not actually cover all users. These fees must, as I said earlier, balance in such a way as to finally make rational use of water resources. There are situations, such as: It happened at the end of the day that this water was missing. We must therefore provide certain reserves and rules of operation. The issue of these fees was, as I said, regulated in the Environmental Law, but at the moment, as far as these fees are concerned, it will be the responsibility of the new unit, which is designed, the State Water Farm of Poland. As I said before, these fees are not taxes, these are charges that will rationalise and stimulate water saving, rational use of water resources. Maybe they'll charge a little bit of citizens, we won't avoid it, just as we won't avoid water charges, as we won't avoid any other kind of fees, not at all, for life. As far as two things are concerned, short-term agriculture. We're predicting underground water collection fees, valuable groundwater charges, to the rain cellar. There will be no other agricultural charges. The second issue - I was talking about rainwater - concerns only large cities in which really, like others. in Krakow, there are problems. These problems need to be solved and these charges will be reduced if cities take measures that will aim at water retention, and not as it is now, that it is drained after the rains of the mass of water, not always clean, into small rivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u117	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage by Minister Krzysztof Czabański. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I even took this question with me, which you asked to read, because it is a great wonder to me. When and how high Will Poles be charged with additional media taxes? That's what you asked, sir. [[It was the Member who didn't work too hard.]] The formal answer is: They will not be charged. They are burdened, among others. by your government, for years. They pay PLN 22.70 a month. This is the obligation, as far as the audiovisual fee in Poland is concerned, that law applies. [[Applause]] We want to cut it down, maybe half. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] The project has entered the Sejm, two options are considered: a monthly fee of 12 PLN or 15 PLN, so at least 1/3 we will reduce your tax and relieve citizens. Of course, I hope you will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's been a long time since I've heard such impudence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u119	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In the rest of the section, the information I wanted to provide, in response to a question addressed to the Prime Minister, concerns retail tax and matters related to the support of mortgage clients. Indeed, Law and Justice in the course of the election campaign talked about the tax on hypermarkets, the retail tax, and it was expected by people operating in this industry. Finally, in the draft budget for the current year there was an amount of PLN 2 billion in revenue for this year. Let me remind you that in February this year. The government has put forward a draft of this law for public consultation and from now on we have been listening to the voice of the public, stakeholders and different backgrounds. It turned out that the information that comes from the market, from this industry, in order to meet the expectations of this tribute, is mutually exclusive. That is to say, we have become quite interested in this tribute, in which many people have previously seen the opportunity to conduct business in the retail segment on a level playing field and better competitively with regard to large operators operating in this trade. But it turned out that the very definition of those obliged to pay this tax is very difficult and does not meet the expectations of all those who have seen it as an opportunity for small, medium-sized, domestic, family businesses to improve trading conditions. We want to hear this voice and give the best possible answer. Recently, at the meeting of the Parliamentary Group for Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism, we set out the assumptions in which the areas of disputes and divergences that were as far as possible were already extinguished, and we showed how simple the possible formulas were that the framework of the draft law in this area should be as expected to meet these conditions and expectations with regard to this regulation, which I mentioned at the beginning. Today, it is not yet possible to indicate a specific date for entry into force of the new regulations, but we are working very hard on this, and I think that the final version of this proposal will soon be submitted to the High House. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the fourth question, when will help people with mortgage credit be activated, it is a question a little with the thesis that it does not exist. This help is running. I will remind you that at the end of last term, such a bill was adopted... [[The Civic Platform reported it.]] ...the Act of 9 October on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties who have taken up a housing loan entered into force. Indeed, as President Skowrońska says here, the initiative was a member of the Civic Platform at the time. The bill's been running for over two months. If necessary, I will refer to its scope, its effectiveness, its scale, as regards who and how it has become the beneficiary of the provisions of this Act. Let me tell you briefly that it entitles people who have lost their jobs to support those who have borne more than 60% of their costs. its monthly income for handling this debt, low-income persons; on a single-person holding it was less than PLN 634 in a multi-membered holding - less than PLN 514 per person. The parameters of this product are support for a period of not more than 18 months, 1500 PLN per month, then reimbursement of this amount for a further 8 years. This support may be requested by the end of December 2018. Ladies and gentlemen! On this subject, I would just like to refer to the fact that President Andrzej Duda presented the bill on 15 January... [[There are platforms in the Seym.]] ...with the support of people who have taken out loans in currency... in Swiss franc. It was addressed to the Commission for Financial Supervision, which issued its opinion on 15 March. On 8 April, the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland appointed a team on the development of amendments to the proposal for a bill on loans to foreign currencies. Only after it has been presented will it be possible to present the government's position on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And there's the Civic Platform project.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u121	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you like to sign up for any questions? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Then sign up. I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. Question time - 2 minutes. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, the Law and Justice Club, is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Honourable Members! Dear Messengers! High Izbo! I have a question for applicants who have been so worried about the future of Poles lately... [[This isn't the time.]] [[Always, always.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u123	Please do not disturb the Member to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u124	...but I don't know if they remember if they know that 5 million people have made polysolocats worth nearly PLN 50 billion. The liquidation of these policies absorbs most of the funds paid. Why has the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party not dealt with these toxic polysolocats for eight years? [[The voice from the hall: He took care of it.]] Is this another rotten egg that the Law and Justice government will have to deal with? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u125	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The state has the right to levy and collect taxes because without taxes there is no state. That's what we agree on. It's obvious. But the reckless fiscalism of PiS is similar to the plundering of conquered cities in the middle ages, and the tax system you create is often like retaliation on those you dislike, whom you represent as enemies of the people. Who likes banks? Here you go - bank tax. Who likes CEOs? After all, every Kowalski knows he'd be a better CEO than the one he is now. Here you go - the CEO tax. Who likes hypermarkets? - we have a trade tax. I want you to be able to introduce these taxes. But you can't do that. In the bank tax - a hole that the banks gladly and thoroughly used. There is no commercial tax yet, and you already know perfectly well that there will be no good solutions, because either you will introduce a tax to which you will charge Kowalski, a Polish shopkeeper, or you will introduce a tax which will be incompatible with EU law. What's the law, actually? You follow the principle that, paraphrasing words from the film known to us, one could describe as a rule: law, and justice must be on our side, the PiS. You also create lawlessness in the tax system. You are also building a greedy state because you know that all sectoral taxes will either be passed on to the citizen. Moreover, Minister Shamacha announced that he would raise VAT in 2017. According to the Act, this tax is to be 22% and the Minister announced that it would be 23%. [[Voice from the hall: Who raised it?]] Minister, what a government in good economic times, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When last year we had dynamics 3.6% GDP, and for the future you predict 3.8% GDP... What kind of government raises taxes at a time like this? [[The PO government raised the tax.]] You're going to go to a disgusting story, like many other decisions you make. [[Game in the hall, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u127	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I invite Mr Jan Łopata, the PSL Club. [[From a point of view, if your marshal will allow it.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u128	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! There's no such thing as public money. If the government says they're gonna give somebody something, it means they're gonna take it away from you because the government doesn't have any of their own money. That's a famous quote from Margaret Thatcher, of course. The Polish government has come close to the British office, so I think this quote didn't offend anyone. And the issue is of course very important, because apart from these additional burdens mentioned by my colleague, Mr Jarubas, but also in the questions just raised, I would like to ask you about the other ones that appear in public space. If it were possible, I would ask for an answer, but such a concrete one, not referring to the history of the other term of office, earlier governments, because this is an ordinary escape from the answer. Well, April 7, this year. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction reported that the recommended way to find money, of course beyond EU funds, for infrastructure investments over the coming years is to raise the fuel levy. The calculations attached to this Communication showed that an increase of 10 gr per litre of fuel will bring an additional PLN 20 billion for investments over 10 years. A penny is actually worth counting, but it's an extra burden on Kowalski, as we already use that name. We've introduced trash segregation, fees for this trash. It's also complaining that it's too expensive, but now the idea of bail comes up also for plastic bottles. What's with the idea? How will it be implemented if work is still under way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask you about something bigger, namely the health contribution, because there was an idea to raise it to 6%. GDP, which would, of course, give 40 billion PLN more, would only have to be increased from 9 to 14%. The tax wedge will also increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u129	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobletta, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Members of the Civic Platform and PSL are concerned about the hypothetical increase in taxes. However, I would like to return to the PO-PSL regime and ask the Minister whether it is true that it was that government that led to a significant increase in public danins. Is it true that the total value of new taxes and their increases in 2012 alone amounted to PLN 12 670 million? Minister, is it true that in 2012 VAT on children's clothing rose from 8 to 23%? [[The EU directive was.]] Is it true that the excise duty on diesel has increased by 18 gr per litre? Is it true that the excise duty on cigarettes increased by 85 gr per package? Is it true that by 44% has the pension premium been increased for entrepreneurs? [[Mr...]] I also wanted to ask the Minister, is it true that the PO-PSL government introduced a tax on copper and silver? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u131	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With the forthcoming amendment of the Water Law, new taxes are to be introduced. And I don't agree with the Minister's statement, because it's still being processed at the moment. According to estimates, the state budget is expected to raise more than PLN 3.5 billion a year. The tax will mainly be paid by power plants and heat and power plants. The government is hitting companies, but the effects of rising water prices will be felt by all. Farmers who have been exempt from water charges will also be paid. In a particularly difficult situation will be those who run fishing farms, among others. a fee for water for fish farming and farming will be introduced. This leads to the collapse of fish farming in Poland. In addition, charges for rain and melting snow are to be introduced. The potential burden on citizens, households should not exceed 29.5 PLN per capita per year - we read in the draft law. Is that really true? However, these calculations did not take into account the rise in food and services prices resulting from the introduction of new charges for which citizens will also pay. Dear Members, The state budget in March amounted to PLN 6.5 billion in deficit. Budget expenditure for the last 12 months is the highest in history. Is that what the PiS voters wanted? I don't think so. So I ask, should all Poles pay the post-election debts of the PiS? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u133	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Agatha Borowiec, Club Law and Justice. Is there a Member? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. I would like to ask Mrs Lydia Gądek, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In recent days, public opinion has been informed that the Government of Law and Justice wants to introduce a new tax, a tax on rain falling from the sky. At first I thought it was of course Some dark joke, but it's been almost a month since April. However, when I remembered and checked thoroughly that under the rule of the PiS, and exactly 28 June 2006, the Minister for Transport, Construction and Maritime Affairs issued an appropriate regulation, fortunately later declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Administrative Court, I realized that the current authority was not joking at all, or actually joking. from Poles, only in a very ugly way. Given recent reports that the Supreme Administrative Court is no longer an authority for the current authority, fear to fear what it will be when we start to have this type of tribute introduced on a daily basis. There is nothing to be fooled by, a new fee or tax proposed by the PiS hits mainly the inhabitants of small towns. Therefore, I would like to ask why another tribute is being introduced, including for young people who most often do not have a TV, because it is no longer fashionable today? It will be a compulsory tribute in the form of a television fee for national media like dozens of new charges, which may not be called taxes, but which will draw huge money from the pockets of Poles. Please tell us what the Polish villagers have done wrong, that you are first taking away their right to land, now they will have to pay for the rain, and we may not know about other tributes yet. The biggest mistake they made was, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think they voted for the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u135	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Frankowicz expects clear declarations from the government, best agreed with the president, as clear and as unambiguous as the electoral promises that the banks are supposed to share with the borrowers the effects of the drastic increase in the franc course. What do they have in return? They have the uncertainty and bitterness of the media narrative and the prevailing attitude of the society summary in the folk saying: They saw the eyeballs that they took. Really? I will quote the thesis of an article that was once published in Bankier. The franc was devalued to match the initial conditions with poor mortgagers in Poland. Then devaluation when a million subprime credits were sold. The Swiss Bank was used to convert dollars in subprime credits into francs to increase confidence in loans in francs and apply a 100% financial pump mechanism with transmission. The course of the franc falls to 2 zlotys. Now it is known that it was an artificial course, lowered for the operation of a financial and credit pump for Poland. Sold a million subprime franc credits of 100,000. francs, turnover of 100 billion Swiss francs and changed the running of the financial and credit pump with a ratio of 1 to 2. The rate of francs began to rise sharply, as demand rose to 100 billion francs to be repaid in the course of 10 and 20 years. In this context, the treatment of the banking system as an innocent Orleans Virgin insults people, insults the French. The Frankowicz know that the bank tax and bank contribution to SKOK-i - SKOK-i, a well-known institution for PiS - will reduce the likelihood of support for this group. The government and the president are stalling on the franchise case. Unfortunately, no clear declaration [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the problem. I was hoping to get to know the concrete, unfortunately, that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u137	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u138	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! It is true that the great negligence of the PSL-PO government is practically in every area. It is also true that liberal application of the rules, e.g. tax damage caused huge losses to the state budget. The information presented yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances concerning the control of the NIK on the collection of taxes shows a huge deficiency of the State in this respect in the years 2010 to 2015. The information we've got is shocking. It would be advisable to explain why this happened, that at least several dozen billion zlotys flowed out of the country during the PSL and PO governments. Before the elections, the PSL-PO government faked various actions, making many mistakes. One of these sham activities is the Act of 9 October 2015, according to which borrowers in difficulty can count on aid up to 1.5 thousand. monthly for up to 18 months. This Act introduces an obligation to appoint a National Council of the Support Fund at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Another bureaucracy to decide on the possible waiver of borrowers' liabilities. Minister, how many people have benefited from this support? How many persons and for what amount have the liabilities been decommitted? Should we draw conclusions and consequences from the ministers of that time for their lack of tax collection and, above all, for their huge sums coming out of the country? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u139	Thank you very much. I wanted to invite Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform. There is no Member. Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant - Mr President - whether the ever lower tax revenues, especially from VAT, over the past years, the loss of CIT estimated at up to 46 billion per year, due to excise duty and to fuel, cigarettes, alcohol and gambling, estimated at 15 billion did not concern the representatives of PSL. For eight years, have you not noticed the problems of budget and finance and citizens? What were you doing to counteract these pathologies? Because from what I remember, the only way you've used to counter it, in quotes, of course, was to raise taxes that burdened citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u141	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. I invite Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Did applicants who today show such great concern for the tax burden of Poles do enough - and if so, what exactly - to collect outstanding taxes, which today, together with interest, account for as much as PLN 50 billion? What the applicants have done to limit fraud, fictitious invoices and so-called. VAT carousel, for which annual losses for the budget account for about PLN 40.50 billion today? [[Not every year.]] Every year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u143	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about additional tax burdens of Poles. During these few months of government, the PiS has already accumulated some of these burdens, and the next ones are getting ready. You introduced a bank tax accompanied by such a very populist message that banks have to share jointly with their citizens their too high profits - said Prime Minister Szydło. Minister, you don't have to be a banker to know that the bank will always take away its losses on its clients, so on each of us, unless someone has no bank account. Before this tax entered into force on 1 February, 11 banks increased mortgage margins. What does that mean? The fact that Poles who bought apartments on loan have to pay more payments. The person who took 300,000. PLN of credit for 25 years, will pay 20,000. PLN more, that is to cover 40 instalments under the 500+ programme. It's not banks, ladies and gentlemen, they're gonna put together for this program, it's citizens. That's what your ideas look like. Interestingly, the revenue from this new tax after the first month of its operation turned out to be too small. So the government is figuring out how to seal the bank tax here and draw an additional 2 billion PLN. Minister, this 2 billion PLN pulled from the wallets of Poles, not from banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u145	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Kopcinska, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I have a question for the applicants. Why did the Polish People's Party agree to increase VAT to 23%? Why did the Polish People's Party support the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party in raising VAT on children's clothing? Did this not affect the huge increase in the cost of living for millions of Polish families, which you are so concerned about now? Thank you. [[But that's not true! Let the Minister explain this to his Members so they can finally understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u147	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform. There is no Member. I invite Mrs Iwona Michalek, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u148	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the applicant. Mr President, you have started the subject of franc credits. I wanted to ask: Why didn't PSL solve the so-called problem with so long power? Franc loans? Neither the borrower nor the developers saw the Swiss franc in sight. I wanted to ask, " Has the banks been checked for Swiss francs in the last eight years? Now you care very much about Polish families, or so you say. Why haven't you done this before? We know that today, the commitments of Polish families amount to as much as PLN 140 billion. Didn't you see that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u149	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The lack of a consistent and stable tax policy of the government adversely affects the decisions of Polish and foreign investors and economic entrepreneurs. The introduced bank tax, the retail tax project, the concept of which has been changing for six months, the rain tax, the windmill law, the audiovisual tax - all this causes economic instability, which for business is the worst situation he can accept. We already have a significant outflow of foreign capital, which so far has been very willing to undertake business activity in Poland. Unless the purpose of the government is to make them only Polish companies. What the economic impact will be, it is not difficult to predict. The optimism of entrepreneurs is falling. The value of the current index of Bibby MSP Index clearly indicates a deterioration of the mood among entrepreneurs compared to autumn 2015. Entrepreneurs have already experienced the effect of introducing a bank tax, fearing the introduction of a commercial tax. Transport companies are in big trouble. The decrease in optimism is also due to the decrease of the rating agency for Poland in January this year and the announcement of another agency with a possible decrease in rating. Nearly half of the surveyed entrepreneurs estimated that the overall economic climate in Poland in the last 6 months was not conducive to doing business. This is a 7.5 percentage point deterioration, which is very high. It's a very bad forecast for the near future. In such circumstances, how does the government intend to achieve the planned growth and growth of gross domestic product? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u151	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u152	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! The classics claimed that everyone must die and pay taxes, but we also know those classics close to the heart of the applicants who said that anyone in his government who raises taxes will throw out of this government. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we can move these accusations or epithets. Minister Leszczyna reminded us of the tax darkness of the Middle Ages in the PiS edition. Of course, I could also approximate the Wild West and the elder from the last few years, concerning the famous tax carousels, VAT carousels, tax avoidance on a gigantic scale. Yesterday we were not informed of the extent of these abuses. I would like to ask the question addressed to the representative of the Ministry of Finance if you confirm this data. They're absolutely shocking. In 2015, there was an increase in the sum of fictional invoices and various types of VAT fraud estimated at PLN 81 billion, and this was a huge increase even compared to 2014, when the sum of these false, fictional invoices was PLN 33 billion. It was estimated that in 2015 such obvious abuses were worth PLN 12 billion. Imagine that you were so bravely defending our taxpayers that only PLN 160 million was recovered from this amount, out of PLN 12 billion. Can the Ministry of Finance confirm the scale of such abuses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u153	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u154	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, as the previous speakers pointed out, the number of danins imposed on taxpayers is increasing. This is not in line with what the ruling party, the PiS, has declared in elections. It is also worrying that the way of redistribution takes on the character of central control. Unfortunately, we are moving towards a pre-emptive and resolving economy. This is noticed by many economists. Visions and belief that everything can be planned, this is absolute utopia. I was hoping this utopia died with the Soviet Union. Unfortunately, it's in new forms, but it's reborn. This vision also appears in Mr Morawiecki's plan. The government wants to build the power of selected sectors of the economy, reindustrialise and build the power of national champions. This year the Polish Development Fund is to be created, which will raise capital from taxes and is to be a tool for the implementation of the project by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Ladies and gentlemen! Politicians are not experts in inventing good business and investment projects. They're not from judging them either. The role of politicians is to create regulation, but rather at this point we need to say deregulation of the business environment and improving the quality of action of all state institutions. Do you not notice that you are beginning to create utopian visions of development? To me, the Prime Minister's statement on the reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry is shocking. Ladies and gentlemen, our shipbuilding industry is second in Europe and fifth in the world with revenue for 2015 of 10 billion. I'd like you to pay attention to all these untrue things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because it may turn out that the diagnosis will be tragic for Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u155	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u156	Thank you very much. High Izbo! The representative of the applicants here said, so to speak, with a loud voice, as if he did not remember what his party colleagues had prepared for Poles in the past few years. This is my function of refreshing your memory, so let me remind you, because you're obviously suffering from some kind of memory loss. Well, Mr President, it has been proposed that your colleagues in the past 8 years should do this: the increase in the basic VAT rate from 22 to 23% should be for 3 years, after 3 years will continue... [[Lower to 5.]] ...up from 7 to 8% for medicines, housing, up from 3 to 5% for raw food, up from 8 to 23% for children's clothing, up from 0 to 5% for books, up to 5% for excise duties, among others. for fuel oil, natural gas, alcohol, cigarettes, raising the pension premium for entrepreneurs from 4,5 to 6,5% ,the freezing of tax thresholds, please countries, the cost of obtaining income and the amount free of tax, which, in view of the increase in inflation, meant an automatic increase in the burden. Instead of the promised elimination of the Belka tax, you extended its scope to profit from one-day bank deposits. They are not dwarfs or green men, but your government, gentlemen, introduced a copper tax for one single KGHM company, which gender 6.5 million zlotys a day. It was your government that imposed the burden on the social security fund on unpaid loans. I can see I'm running out of time, so I could mention the achievements of your government by midnight. [[There wouldn't be enough time.]] Mr President, a little decency, though minimal [[♪ The bell ♪]] range, because even if we don't know how fast we're going, we can't do even 10%. What your government did for the past two terms. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That is a fact, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u157	Thank you very much, Member. [[In this respect, in this area - the looting of Poles.]] I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Finger! You know, if you're exchanging, that's great, 'cause you're not doing anything, you're adding. Everything that was at a time when there was a crisis, when other countries... [[But they say there was a green island.]] But why don't you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u159	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u160	Calm down... You're always bothering me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u161	You're welcome, ladies...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u162	Because you guys are fighting and finally you're... You're always bothering everyone. Keep your mouth shut. [[You're not exclusive to interrupting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u163	I'm asking you to calm down. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u164	I would like to say this: so, since all these taxes have been said, I have a question for the Minister. Why haven't you submitted any tax reduction project since November? You didn't bring in any drafts on children's clothes, and there was a judgment of the European Court of Justice. There's no such thing. We'd pay the penalty. There is no proposal for lower VAT than children's clothes. There is no lower tax because the added bank tax, the store tax, the rain tax, the audiovisual fee for each connection, and not everyone there will have... [[Wouldn't Prime Minister Tusk be calling for no subscription and your friend?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u165	Member, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u166	Count me off, because Mrs Paluch...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u167	...please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u168	She could... You've already spoken.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u169	But, ladies, now there's...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u170	A question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u171	...Mrs. Skowronska. You just spoke. You're welcome. Member Krystyna Skowrońska: A question for the Minister. You spoke so much, including Mr Szewczak, about the tax gap, about the tax fraud, about the tax carousel. It's not an art to talk about. I would like to ask you, how much did you seal this mechanism for and how did you seal it? You are talking about banks, and today the banks paid PLN 3.7 billion for fallen SKOKs, while the fallen SKOKs paid only PLN 100 million to the Bank Guarantee Fund. So it was the country that led to the fact that the savings of all those who had them were guaranteed to them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be lower CIT for small enterprises, as you said, and will the basic VAT rate be reduced to 22% in 2017? [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Golinska, club Law and Justice. [[And you would calm down.]] [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] No, ladies, no. There's nothing to straighten out. You're welcome... [[I was called by the name of Mrs Skowronska.]] But I would like this debate to be held calmly, without any tension. Really, Commissioner, you've been in the way. [[Game in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. I invite Małgorzata Golinska, Law and Justice. You don't have an MP? Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u172	I'm here. Good morning. I'm here, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u173	I'm sorry, I didn't see it. I am so sorry, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u174	It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u175	The monitor was blocking you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the representatives of the applicants. In the opinion of the applicants, should large foreign trading networks in Poland avoid taxation and not be subject to trade tax? Do the applicants consider that with the turnover of large commercial networks of PLN 130.140 billion, the annual CIT tax of 500 million is sufficient? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u177	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u178	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! What does your governments mean for Poles if we want to judge this through tax changes? To sum it up, it would be short, in your style: less means more. You promised and declared a tax reduction, you assumed a reduction in the amount of free money. Yeah, the project is, except no one's taking care of him today, but the reality? Reality is higher fees on bank accounts, higher margins on loans, soon higher bills in shops, because trade tax is in fact a retail tax that Polish consumers will pay... [[And this gentleman was the finance minister? Lord God, protect us from such specialists.]] ...Polish families. The audiovisual fee - less, but in fact in opposition to this project, the Minister knows it well, is the abolition of the fee. That's what we tried to do a few times in our previous term of office. Today, there is also a project on the table that abolishes this fee and the funding of public media takes over the state budget. And that's a fair solution. VAT? Yes, we did, but at the same time we were reducing VAT to a number of first-needed articles. [[Yeah, like for Gomulka: sausage more expensive, but locomotives stopped.]] Polish households gained PLN 4.5 billion on these changes. It's worth remembering. What about [[Applause]] Clothes - where are they, where is the law reducing this tax? You can't see her in the Seym. In general, the worst part of all of this is that you don't see that what you're doing results in inefficiencies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the economy that leads to inefficient use of resources on the one hand... [[There is nothing to be said by the Member.]] ...and, on the other hand, to the irreparable loss of the consumer. A simple analysis of social well-being and... [[Marshal, time's up.]] ...tax traffic leads to that. It may be worthwhile to refer to economics manuals. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u179	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Bogdan Rzonca, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to thank you very much for bringing up a very important topic, because we have an opportunity to talk about something in which you, as Members of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, also unfortunately new parties that are in the Sejm, do not participate. We are very transparent as Law and Justice, we have set up several working groups, e.g. a team on economic patriotism, where there are very interesting discussions on the Polish economy. And, ladies and gentlemen, I will disappoint your applicant, your fellow Members, and I regret that you are not at these meetings, but I will tell you this. If you are yelling today that Polish traders or traders in Poland in large-area areas or small-area traders are afraid of countries, it is not. They agreed, they came to a meeting, to a meeting, many times, with a big applause... [[What did you have?]] ...with their own and large turnout they said: we agree on taxes, we haven't paid so far, we want to pay, just to make it normal, to make it normal. [[Polish families...]] Please, Minister, don't bother me. [[The defender found Polish families.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u181	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u182	Let me tell you something about you. Let me tell you something.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u183	But I'm asking you to calm down. Then please...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u184	Yeah, but your marshal, you're bothering me.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u185	That is why I am appeasing the Member. You've got half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u186	Thank you very much. So, yeah, somebody mentioned wind farms, let's say. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very good signal from the Polish Wind Energy Association. They want to pay taxes. They haven't paid yet, they want to pay. It's in writing. So we're talking, we're not afraid to discuss. Minister, you here from this podium have approved a sector tax on fossils. I remember you doing it. [[Didn't you?]] You're ashamed of that today, aren't you? You did it. Please... [[Game in the O.R.]] You pulled up, KGHM pulled up. You know that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And there are six of you left in the courtroom. Six of you are left in the O.R. because you are ashamed of this subject. [[But there are three of you.]] You're afraid of the truth you've introduced. We're transparent, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're talking. [[Where are you guys?]] And thank you very much again for bringing up the subject. Shame on you for what you've done.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u188	The Polish state is functioning. [[The momentum of our good governance.]] You blew it... Stone poop. That's what your minister said, we're rocks poop. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It was your minister who said it. And we build you and people come, and they want to pay taxes. [[You're destroying the country.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Terrible emotions in the gym. Please, Mr Adam Abramovich is the last to speak. And I hope, sir, that it will be calm and quick.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u190	Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that the work of the team on promoting entrepreneurship and economic patriotism is ongoing, in which members of the Platform are also taking part. [[What kind of team is this?]] And this team is taking care of... [[But the bill was in the briefcase.]] ... e.g. the problem of facilitation for Polish entrepreneurs. [[Don't yell.]] And the current Polish government is the only one who has a dialogue with entrepreneurs. Dialogue. We introduce solutions through conversation and... [[But there's an economic committee.]] ...this commercial tax, which you so scare, is accepted by Polish small and medium-sized companies. [[Which version?]] And since the construction will be that there will be a large amount free, so there will be no price increase. Do not scare Poles today, because we are introducing tax facilitation and tax changes in dialogue, unlike the state that you did the opposite, and these burdens have increased all the time. So please don't worry, these work and dialogue are ongoing. [[Mr President, the team is not a parliamentary committee.]] And give us time, because you'd want us to do in a month what you've ruined for eight years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u193	Thank you very much, sir. And please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Krystian Jarubas. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Tax transferability - every economics manual.]] [[Your time is up, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u194	Dear Marshal! [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u195	Please allow the Member to speak. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u196	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Six months ago, you got a dozen percent of the people who went to the election and voted for you. You said no tax increases. You had them reduced. And today: water tax, which you will flush out all the Poles' pockets. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] As Minister Gajda said, we will not avoid the cost of living. This will bring out a few dozen zlotys per person, especially to food producers. Fish farmers for 1 ha of pond will pay PLN 8200. Minister Czabański, you want to reduce the media tax by imposing an audiovisual fee on Polish families in the form of an electric charge. My question is, do those who don't want to see the PiS journal sit in the dark? A store tax that might kill small family businesses and still slims the pockets of all shop customers. A bank tax that already makes banks raise fees for keeping an account and using cards. Minister Janczyk, you promised other solutions for borrowers. It's just part of the examples. You can fool voters. On this occasion, a few questions arise. What about the VAT reduction? It's your election promise. What about raising the tax-free amount? [[It will be.]] That's another promise. What about retirement age? [[He'll be reduced.]] You can't even offer a reasonable solution. [[He'll be reduced.]] Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u197	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u198	You reject a meaningful change of the Polish People's Party supported by trade unions. I won't mention your other election promises, because there's nothing left to worry about. The biggest fraud of yours, however, is that you are looking for money in the pockets of Poles. And where's the good change? Well, it's a good change, quoting the classic: for your guys, your guys, often without competence. [[Voice from the hall: Who says?]] You pushed people into well-paid jobs, even in studs. [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]] Someone might say: the horse would laugh, sir, sir. Maybe he'd laugh if he hadn't fallen before. The list of names of good change is long. There you go, that's the list. If anybody wants to, go ahead. [[Scandal!]] And it's getting longer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir. And first of all, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment of Mr Mariusz Gajda. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u200	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry there's such a discussion here about Water Law. The applicant country, ladies and gentlemen, who are criticising this, has not even been fully familiar with the provisions of this law. You listen to all kinds of media voices: the rain charge, when the rain falls on your head, you'll have to pay for each head. It's not true, it's all not true. I would like to say one thing, very important. The draft Water Law Act by the previous government has been processed for 8 years and has not been passed. It was not passed, among others. because - and these are quotes, you can find it on the Internet - that in June last year the transfer of this Water Law to Parliament was suspended because it was actually unpopular. The only reason you stopped it was so you didn't lose the election you lost anyway. I would like to make it clear: this is a requirement The European Commission. If we do not introduce the principle of the reimbursement of water services, we will lose PLN 16 billion from the European Commission at the outset, we will lose the possibility of carrying out sewage treatment plants, sewage treatment plants. A number of demagogic words were written here, among others. concerning the amount of 8 000 for the collection of water into the joints. I would like to say this: there will be no charge for taking water into ponds from surface waters. Each farmer is provided with 5 000 free of charge. And water a day on the basis of the law of ordinary access to water. There will be no charge for the use of surface water for irrigation purposes. Energy will bear costs, yes, the European Commission requires it, but it will cost around 0.7%. energy sales, i.e. about PLN 1.24 per megawatt hour, which costs PLN 160 at the sale. So don't spread the demagogy, please read the project carefully. We need to introduce the principle of the reimbursement of water services, otherwise we will lose EU money and pay penalties several times higher than the fees we are planning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u201	Thank you very much. Minister Krzysztof Czabański, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have to start with where you ended up with the Minister of Environmental Protection, i.e. to advise the Member to read the projects he is asking questions about. [[Applause]] [[The Minister hasn't been around to advise Members, Minister.]] It is worth reading them, Madam President, because then these questions may make sense. If questions are misleading, the answer to them is simple. What you're saying - I'm not gonna use your epithets, so I'm gonna say carefully, gently - is missing the truth. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The audiovisual fee, which is a reduction in the audiovisual tax, will not be included in the electricity bill. Read the project, it's you, I hope, you'll understand. And please don't mislead the public, because then the conversation doesn't make any sense at all. The Minister, Mr Cichoń, told the truth that you submitted the project as a Civic Platform club, which abolishes the subscription fee at all. But does that mean, sir, that citizens will not put on public media? Well, there will be, because the expenditure from the budget, Mr President, is the expenditure from the taxes of the citizens. [[No extra load.]] But how's the extra? And where does that money come from in the budget? It's from our pockets, isn't it? We propose to reduce these taxes. From what you've written, there's no reduction. You've had a lot of years to settle this case, and I think you'll agree with that. [[Applause]] That's not enough, sir. [[You were in opposition, we wanted to.]] May I, sir? Thank you. Minister, sir, you have had many years to settle this, for you have even signed commitments with the citizens of culture, with the citizens of science, that you will do this. It was signed by Donald Tusk on a solemn basis. These are the environments that politically support you, and yet you have broken this agreement and you haven't fixed the public media, and you haven't dealt with the issues that are to be dealt with in these media, including. issues of the financial foundation of these media. ♪ We're gonna ♪ we proposed in these projects. This is a reduction in public tribute, and I hope that this will be one of the arguments that will convince you to vote in favour of these projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Very substantive, Minister.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u203	Thank you very much. And I would like to speak with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! We have been faced with an attempt to put the fiscal face on the government of law and justice, the finance minister. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice has taken on very ambitious challenges that have not even come to mind so far as to take them. This puts the government in such a situation that it needs money, and it cannot be denied to the government which has taken up such ambitious challenges, the right to arrange the entire tax matter of the state. Here in this Chamber, but also in many other places there is some kind of systemic abuse of the statement that the Law and Justice said - as it said - that nothing will change when it comes to taxes. While I recall the programme and the exposé of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, we said that we would not increase the basic tax rates, CIT, personal income tax, VAT rates. [[Oh, we'll hold you to that.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is important. Madam President, I know that you want to capture the line of reasoning so that we can do nothing, but the lack of courage was something characteristic of the previous government, which under the PO-PSL coalition led you for 8 years and led the tax system of the state to complete erosion, which is expressed by this statistics of fictional invoices, cited here by several Members, because I will mention that some of the questions have been compensated in other questions. I would like to thank the Members for the fact that they have served me by recalling in their answers or statements the statistics which, in a crushing way, document how you managed Poland, how you used the tax system with some indolence, with no reformation, without repairing it. [[That's not true.]] You didn't have the guts to do it, you had no idea how to do it. We showed that courage. We have introduced revenue at the level of the project into the state budget for example. tax on financial institutions and note that this tax is already in operation. And I have one answer to my concerns about raising commission fees, credit costs and various services in banks: this tax performs its function, one of the four basic stimuli, e.g. in such a way that those who do not feel well in an institution, who may have raised their fees, can go to a smaller institution... [[PKO BP.]] ...can pass through e.g. to cooperative banks... [[Voice from the O.R.: To the SKOKs.]] [[To the skoks.]] ...to other smaller institutions. I am surprised that there is no advertising here of the fact that these institutions have not been subject to additional taxation, because those people for whom these minimum changes in service costs may be relevant could find their place there peacefully. We tried to support borrowers, whom the applicant is concerned about in the fourth question, through the liquidation of the bank's enforcement title, which gave a better, more objective right to participate in a dispute with a stronger partner, which is always a bank. [[We're the ones who took it out.]] In addition, I would like to say that nothing will change the fact that, due to the decisions made by the Government of Law and Justice, 2,7 Millions of families in Poland and 3.7 million children are covered by an additional support programme, which will really improve the situation and even the chances of normal existence of Polish families. It takes a good decision, it takes a good one, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Brave decisions and the Government of Law and Justice, taking into account the support and operation of the Minister of Finance, but also of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, will take such measures as will secure funding and secure good growth of gross domestic product. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u205	Thank you very much. This statement concludes the examination of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on: - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws, - Senate bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals (Prints No 334, 374 and 447). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present the report of the committee on the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals and on the amendment of certain other laws, contained in print No 334, and the Senate bill amending the same act, contained in print No 374. At its 15th meeting, the Sejm sent the draft to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, while the committee discussed the draft at its meetings on 12 and 27 April. She also set up an emergency subcommittee at which a broad, two-day discussion took place with both the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Łukasz Kaminski, and the Chairman of the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of the Walk and Martyrship of Minister Andrzej Kunert. So that this project was really very profoundly discussed. Of course, there were many proposals for changes made both by Members, representatives of the opposition and by the applicants. These amendments, which were considered by the committee to be genuinely improving and improving the project, have been taken into account. Those which have not been taken into account, mostly reported by Members of the Civic Platform, are 19 of them, and have been included as minority proposals in the report. This is today's report from the High House, and I am proposing to the committee to adopt this proposal, to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u207	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to speak and speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome. You don't have an MP? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u208	Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the revised IPN Act is, in general speaking, to increase the competence of the Institute, sealing, detailing the records based on previous experience, improving them simply, introducing new organisational solutions, enabling the full exploitation of the potential, staffing and scientific achievements of the Institute, so that this mission, which was designed years ago, and the activities of the Institute, i.e. preserving the memory of victims, losses and damage suffered by the nation, prosecuting crimes against peace, humanity, war crimes, reminding the traditions and patriotic struggles of the Polish people with the invaders, with Nazism and communism, fulfilling the obligation of our country to make amend to all those who have been wronged by a state that violates human rights... Therefore, these changes. Among the most important ones, I will remind you of the most important ones, among others. - or, above all, to extend the scope of the temporary research from 8 November 1917 to 31 July 1990, to introduce, clarify, regulate matters relating to the conduct by the Institute of Searches concerning the places of rest of persons who have lost their lives as a result of the fight against the imposed totalitarian system or as a result of totalitarian repression or ethnic cleansing, including the provision of rights to families of persons whose remains are exhumed, and to ensure the proper burial of those persons, clarification, improvement of the current rules on the conduct of scientific research by the Institute, the extension of the educational functions of the Institute. In particular, these educational functions will include the dissemination in Poland and abroad of positions and opinions concerning the most important historical events for the Polish nation, the popularization of post-partitional events, the latest history of Poland as an element of patriotic education, the promotion of knowledge about the participation of Poles and their military formations on the fronts of fights, the prevention of dissemination in Poland and abroad of information and publications on false historical content, hurting or defaming the Republic of Poland or the Polish people, information about methods, places and perpetrators of crimes committed against the Polish people, support social undertakings aimed at creating patriotism, strengthening national identity. What I think is extremely important is that these tasks, those in the field of educational functions, can be performed in cooperation with schools, universities, educational and cultural institutions, associations, foundations, other non-governmental organisations, including media, Polish organisations, emigration institutions and public authorities. The next changes are among others. description and introduction of... organisational changes, i.e. the competition for the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, which, of course, in this law, is described in detail in these changes. The procession is also described, the principles of functioning of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance, new cells are created, among others. Office of National Education, Office of Search and Identification, Office of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. The creation of a genetic material base, the elimination of an isolated proprietary collection - such organizational changes are many and I will remind you that the most important thing is that this institute should do the best that its mission has been entrusted to it, that it should care for memory, because this memory is important to us. Without examination of memory, without paying tribute to the people who lost and gave to their homeland what is most precious, we will not build the past, we are not able to create our own identity. We very much want the Institute to act as efficiently as possible so that it has the widest possible competence to build a society, based on the study of truth and memory, which will have this knowledge and awareness, and that we really do the best we can. Finally, I would like to inform the marshal that during the proceedings, during the committee's work... We are introducing, we would like to introduce before the next stage an editorial and legislative change. I'll put them in writing, put them in the hands of your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u209	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would first ask Mr Antoni Mężydł and then Mr Sławomir Nitras. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club regarding the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the Senate bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. At first reading, my club submitted the biggest reservations for the appointment of the President and College of IPN. In the course of the subcommittee's work, an amendment was made to ensure that the candidate for President of the IPN was selected in a competition conducted by the College of IPN, but due to the mode of appointment of members of the College, the purely political mode, without candidates' pre-selection by academic and legal centres, but only submitted directly by the Sejm, the Senate and the President, the institution of the contest is purely decorative and does not improve this draft law. The result is that, instead of choosing the President as a result of a compromise between the scientific community and the parliament, as it is today, all decisions on the election will be taken by the governing coalition, in the situation we have today, when one party rules - the leadership of this party. That is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against this bill because it is too important. However, during the work of the committee, even though we did not raise any major objections to most of the scope of this law, there were some shortcomings here. Turns out this project was on its knees. It is unprepared and due to e.g. to extend the scope of the IPN's temporary research to 8 November 1917 and to remove the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom and to transfer this to the IPN there was a legal galimatias and a lack of work. Most of the opinions that were received by the committee resulted in the fact that during the work of the subcommittee, but also the committee was In fact, it's written all over again. And that's why, because of our position we talked about at first reading, the Civic Platform Club will be making amendments. We will also propose amendments adapting the territorial structures of the IPN to the administrative division of the country into voivodships. As a result of these amendments, IPN branches will be in all voivodships, but branch committees and branch mirror offices will only be located in those cities, which are also the seat of appeals courts. We also want to adapt the structure of the IPN branches to reflect the structure of the IPN headquarters. But we also propose an amendment to the article. 2 of the amending act, which actually rewrites the provisions of the implementing regulation issued by the Minister for the Interior on 23 October 1936 to that law and omits the very important amendments to the Law on graves and cemeteries of war. That is why we are here to meet the applicants and we want to put this amendment in place. The next amendment is that the current President of the IPN should remain in office until the end of his term of office, which is until 27 June, because it does not interfere with anything, as well as we want in the article. 22 the standard period of vacathio legis is set at 30 days. And we're making these amendments. We simply want, as an environment that it represents - as well as the PiS - the environment of the former democratic opposition, as well as the solidarity environment, to make this IPN work as best as possible. Although there is no agreement for the most important thing for us, your Marshal, High Izbo, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u211	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u212	Thank you, Marshal. Your Marshal, I would like to add another amendment on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, which will prevent the destruction of the scientific achievements of the genetic base, which was created by the Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin. You in this law are really destroying this base and trying to move the base to the institute, which is understandable, you don't want to do it on the basis of the acquis of the institution that has been building the base for several years, you just want to destroy it, and you want to build the base in some vacuum. We make an amendment that prevents this and defines it as the headquarters of the Szczecin base. This is the hand given to you and I hope you will accept this extended hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak, speaking on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I would like to ask Mr Józef Brynkus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. The procedated bill on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals provides for fundamental changes in the functioning of the IPN, which can be considered essential for its functioning. This is not the case, as some critics have said, that the new law is intended only to change the President of the Institute to one that will pursue historical policy and in general the majority of parliamentary policies, namely the Law and Justice. For when we look at the organisational and substantive solutions introduced, it will turn out that they can actually serve to dynamicise the functioning of this institution. First of all, attention should be paid to the temporary extension of the scope of the IPN activities. It is important to shift the cesuria of the initial research and organizational interests of the institute to 8 November 1917, because this indicates the origin of the totalitarian system and its criminal character directed against all Poles who love their homeland. Undoubtedly, the definition of the research and educational functions of the IPN should be regarded as a positive solution in the procedated law. It is good that they are linked together, showing that research does not serve anything without popularizing their results. The idea of creating proposals for formal and informal historical education is also important in this conjunction. A lot of reservations in the debate on the shape of the revision of the IPN Act were directed to the procedure for the election of the President of the IPN. The solution provided for in the Act will ensure its transparency and the choice of the person who will manage the obligations imposed on it by the Act. In this case, attention should be paid, for example, to the composition, members of the IPN College, to the criteria to be met, and the powers of that body in relation to the President of the IPN. The lack of an acute criterion, such as the issue of higher education by the members of the college, at this stage of the institution is not an obstacle at all, because the representatives of the historical environment who met it have so far been too organisational. and formally and even financially related to the institute. The impartiality of the college is guaranteed by the lack of such links. It is also important that it has the power to evaluate the research directions of the Institute. So far, this activity has been bound not only by the law, but also by the climate that it created. Therefore, seemingly controversial research areas related to the history of the extermination of Poles in the Eastern Kres were avoided. The research on Silk has obviously not been completed. Another point that should be highlighted concerns the organisational structure of the IPN. However, there may be doubts here. A mandatory set of organisational cells is foreseen in branches. This solution is generally beneficial, as not all areas of the country and the corresponding branches of the institute have the same needs for formal and substantive activities; it will certainly bring economic benefits. However, there is a danger that the President who has the power to appoint them will not notice certain needs in colloquial terms. The Act does not provide for such a change in the structure of the IPN, which would correspond to the administrative division of the country, which would undoubtedly facilitate the operation of its branches in the field. Some of the existing branches today carry out tasks far beyond the region in which the branch is located. The important thing is to pay attention to who might be an IPN employee in the act. The Act, thanks to the provision that an IPN employee may be a person who does not carry out activities incompatible with the activities of IPN, introduces the possibility of the functioning of trade unions in that institution. Unfortunately, the law does not meet the expectations of researchers of the Polish past in relation to at least two issues. The first is the total liquidation of a reserved collection, otherwise called a separate one. The envisaged temporary moratorium on its liquidation and its principles will undoubtedly lead to an even more restricted set of documents. The question is, why? The wordings set out in the amendment of the Act will allow for the preservation of the reserved set, moreover, an instrumental approach to the classification of documents for this set. Why 25 years after the liquidation of the document-producing institutions [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this freakish thing going on? Nevertheless, changes are really going in the right direction. On this occasion it is also worth mentioning the procession itself, which shows that the PiS listens to criticism and adopts solutions that improve the original idea. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u215	Thank you very much, sir. I will ask Mr Grzegorz Furga to speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft amendment to the IPN Act discussed today still contains many shortcomings. This includes: the scope of research conducted by IPN. The original draft amendment assumed 1944 as the starting date. The current project refers to 8 November 1917. However, this is the date chosen completely randomly. By adopting the precise date of the start of the Bolshevik Revolution, you are implying that the victims of the assassins and the national freedom struggles prior to this particular day are beyond the reach of the IPN. That's a big mistake. Bypassing the lower limit would provide the IPN with more work, but also freedom to decide on work. Moreover, we forget about the victims of systems other than fascism, Nazism and communism, thus refusing victims of the Weimar Republic or of the Kowień Lithuania due to their place in our memory. The same applies to the amendment in Article. 1 paragraph 8 and Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). Article 53 (1) Such a framework restricts the activities of IPN. A similar error is made by the Members of the applicant who, despite the economic justification, still do not specify which central institutions of the Ministry of Home Affairs Security and their subordinate units constituted the apparatus of internal repression. This applies primarily to those institutions of the security apparatus whose former officers have so far enjoyed full pension and pension rights. A catalogue of specific names is needed, the amendment of which does not introduce. This amendment will also eliminate unjustified point 3 of Article. 5 of the 1998 Act Reading the draft amendment, I see that despite the earlier attention given to this curian error the country stubbornly upholds the wording of the Article. Point 5 (1) (8). I remind you, and write this down, that a piece like the Home Office of Internal Affairs has never been created. Certainly, the authors were concerned with the Military Internal Service of military units of the MMA and its subordinate cells. The absence of a proper change may have serious consequences in pending court proceedings. This is above all a substantive error. The logical error in turn is the attempt to create a database of genetic material, since so far the Polish Genetic Base of the Victims of Totalitarianism in Szczecin has been engaged. The multiplication of the same institutions and the implementation of the proposed amendments will result in the emergence of a bureaucratic pier, and the amendment of the law does not imply an increase in the funds transferred to IPN. We are afraid that the increase in the number of posts will paralyze the work of the Institute due to insufficient resources, the amount of which is adjusted to the current shape of the law. Unfortunately, you are stubbornly seeking to change the way in which the president of the Institute is appointed. The ombudsman's competition doesn't have anything to do with the IPN chief's competition. Firstly, the President of the IPN conducts research work, which is not done by the Ombudsman. Please believe that an outstanding specialist should be appointed to this position. In addition, by simplifying the rules of the competition, you undermine the role of President, both internally and externally. It turns out that an outstanding specialist in history research, often a scientist, as the only official of this class in state bodies, will be elected by a simple majority. Why are you refusing the weight of this office? In addition, he will have to consult the establishment of nearly 100 management posts in the IPN from the college, which according to the revised criteria will allow anyone to enter, even without the education needed to work at the Institute. By comparison, it's as if the appointment of the head of oncology was decided by medical or even veterinary students. Forgive this comparison, but the College cannot be more important than the President, but it should continue to play a role in controlling the work of the Head of IPN. What is the purpose of this task of the Council and, as amended, of the College? Why are you creating an IPN College if it's not the historians who control the work of the IPN, it's the Sejm, and it's the Sejm who's gonna cancel it? Based on what? Does the Sejm have the powers needed to assess the work of the President of the IPN? Make up for it. Indicate the powers of the Sejm or the advisory body competent to decide on the need for an appeal. You're writing about it in an article. Point 13 (2) of the amendment. Leave this point alone. The role of the Council and, as a result of the changes, the College should not worry you, as it has done its job properly so far. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally: change the criteria for the substantive assessment of the candidate as a member of the College of IPN. You continue to talk about high moral values and knowledge useful in the work of the institute. You are abolishing the need to have a degree in humanities and legal sciences. Afraid of the academic community? Do you have a problem with the professors' autonomy? How are you going to verify moral values? The scientific degree speaks of knowledge, experience in scientific work. Moral values and usefulness in the work talk about nothing. I call for the proposed changes to be taken into account, because we want this amendment to be adopted efficiently, only for the benefit of the Institute of National Remembrance and the history of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u217	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the draft of the Polish Parliamentary Law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationality and on the amendment of certain other laws, as well as the draft resolution on the amendment of the rules. High Seym! After a thorough analysis of the content of the two projects currently under review, it can certainly be said that the good change continues and destroys the further elements of the democratic rule of law that we have been building for 27 years. Turning to the details of the projects, it can be concluded that the Act amends the rules for the election of the President, which will be elected by a simple majority by the Sejm, with the consent of the Senate, after obtaining only the opinion of the College of IPN, which is not binding. Attention should be paid to the coincidence of dates, of course, by chance. The IPN Council announced a competition for the new President on 24 March, and on 30 March the Sejm took up a project amending the rules for selecting the authorities of the Institute. In accordance with the current rules, the IPN Council has to draw up a competition, but due to the highly likely change of legal status - the fast legislative procedure known in Poland since December last year, the Sejm, Senate and President are able to pass the bill in a week - this competition will be cancelled. The question arises: Does the PiS hurriedly want to push the amendment of the bill just to make sure that the candidate indicated by them wins? What's the new presidential election mechanism supposed to look like? It is very simple, in line with the ruling party. The candidate shall report a group of 115 Members, appoint him to the Sejm with the consent of the Senate, after consulting the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. We know who has the majority in the Seym, the majority in the Senate, but there is a matter of college, or actually its composition. There's something to explain again. The new college is to consist of two representatives appointed by the President of the PiS, five appointed by the Sejm, i.e. the PiS, two appointed by the Senate, i.e. the PiS. It is therefore clear that the whole process of appointment of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance belongs to the PiS, from the moment of the application, by consent and opinion. It is unusual that you want to politicize the functioning of such an important institution for researching Polish history, dissemination of knowledge about it. The liquidation of the public competition for the position of President of the IPN and the deprivation of the academic environment and legal professions of influence on the composition of the IPN College should be assessed clearly negatively. The Polish People's Party club does not agree to this kind of depropriation. It should also be stressed that the proposals of the PiS were criticised not only by politicians, as is often said here, so-called. worse sort, but also through the IPN Council. According to its members, the Act restricts the independence of the IPN from the authorities, because instead of a public competition for the position of President of the IPN it will be appointed by politicians. The academic, judicial and prosecutorial environments will be deprived of influence on the composition of the College of IPN. Clearly, this is not just an opinion of politicians. Importantly, a clear change is the extension of the activities of the IPN to seven verticals instead of four, the breakdown of the scientific and educational track, at least several hundred additional employees and several dozen managerial positions, i.e. staff changes, of course, for trusted people of one party. An extremely important change concerns the archive resources of the IPN. The novel provides for the elimination of an isolated set of reserved files in the archive. The files stored in it would be analysed in agreement with the head of the MON, who led a team of experts on the Smolensk disaster, and now instructs the Americans what democracy looks like, and the minister coordinator of special services, who as a theoretically innocent citizen was pardoned by President Duda. Thus, High Izbo, these negative examples of changes in projects could be multiplied. It would probably be hard to discuss them if there were even twice as much time. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party has a negative assessment of both projects, but we want to be involved in the attempt to change the most extreme, extremely unfavourable provisions and allow ourselves to make an amendment today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with regard to Article. Point 8 concerning the criteria for appointment to the members of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u219	13 persons were included in the list of Members of the task. Anyone else want to sign up? I'll close the list then. It's time for the task... You're still an MP. You're welcome. Then let's agree to close the list with the conclusion of the first question. Question time - 2 minutes. Please, Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. You are the second one to be entered. [[Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u220	Thank you, Marshal. As we know, this is a parliamentary project. When I ask Mr Ast questions, I would also like to ask questions to the applicants for this project. Because I think we're dealing with a bad trial. I remember still working with Mr Mularczyk in 2005 on the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. I also remember President Kaczyński's role in this process. I even remember who represented him at the time in parliamentary work. I remember the idea that led these works back then, not without inspiration, and perhaps even mainly from the inspiration of President Kaczyński, to write the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance after the agreement between the PiS and the Platform so that it was not written against someone. Fortunately, we have lived to see such a time today that so famous and so persistent anti-communists like me or, above all, Mr Man, who is dealing with this law on behalf of the Civic Platform, do not have to be anti-communists, because anti-communism... there is simply no communism in Poland, and so there is nothing to fight against, it is not even in parliament. Very good. But why make the Institute of National Remembrance weapons one against another? Is it not worth adopting this law in agreement? We are not different about the evaluation of the past, and it is not worth doing it anymore. What's bothering you guys? Why do you not want to respect the institution of the competition, scientific experience, a certain continuity of the institution's work? The same applies to the genetic database, which is the work of the institute. When we were making this bill, Mr Blake, it did not occur to us that there should be a genetic basis. She was founded as a certain experience of the institute. And why was it created in Szczecin? Well, because the institute, the Szczecin University, is just the best at all of this. Today you want to throw it all in the trash, you want to start over. Don't throw it in the trash. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bend over those amendments that have been tabled. And my request is this: are you able to rise above this party division in a very important matter for Polish history? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u221	Thank you. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. I have a first question for the Prime Minister. Why are you presenting a project that is so politicized by the Institute of National Remembrance? I am referring to the exchange of the Council of the Institute of National Remembrance for the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. But the problem is not with the change of name, but with the fact that the requirement that a member of such a council should be a person who has a scientific title in the field of humanities or legal sciences is abolished. That's out of the question. Secondly, in the process of recruitment and selection of members of the college of memory institutions, three institutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences and all universities are excluded, which have the right to be a doctor of humanities. The whole selection process will only be a political process. The Sejm, the Senate, the president will choose and there will be no candidates submitted by these outstanding scientific communities. This leads to a politicisation of this, and I am surprised that Professor Piotr Gliński removes his teaching from submitting candidates to this Institute of National Remembrance, and makes him a political unit. And I have a second question: why do you not want to agree to a provision that allows the Jewish Community to participate in exhumation proceedings or to secure human remains in this case, where there are strong indications that Jewish people and the remains of Judaist believers are involved? There was an argument at the committee meeting: What about other religions? Well, I would like to say that only in Judaism are there specific provisions for exhumation and dealing with human remains. We have various other state regulations in our [[♪ The bell ♪]] legislation, even if Catholic holidays are considered to be public holidays, such as the institution of confession, which is protected and does not need to share the information obtained during the confession in court. So we recognize certain religious principles in our state legislation. Why in the case of Jewish remains, so tragically murdered people do not want to pay their last homage by respecting their religion and acting with them in a manner consistent with their religion...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u223	Mr. President, please finish...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u224	...with the representatives of the religious communities?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u225	...ask questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u226	I don't fully understand this resistance in this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u227	I ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The liquidation of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Combat and Martyrdom and its inclusion in the Institute of National Remembrance is a very controversial idea. The council that has been operating since 1947 has a great deal of work in commemorating the victims. A great experience in difficult Polish-Russian and Polish-Ukrainian dialogue has contributed to the fact that Katyn necropolises were surrounded by due respect and care. The voice of the Federation of the Katyn Families, emphasizing the achievements of the Council and the great fears that will follow, has been completely ignored in the discussion on this project. The same is true of the opinion of the Polish-German Reconciliation Foundation, which defends this institution. The Parliamentary bill was not consulted with the public, with the Kombatant organisations, with non-governmental organisations. The PiS is taking shortcuts. There is no substantive justification for such an unfair decision. One move destroys a very valuable activity. Why is there a storm in what works well? The experience of council and office staff doesn't mean anything, because the project doesn't give them any job guarantees. 3 months, after 3 months, new people will start from the beginning. Is that the point? How much is this idea going to cost the state budget? What is the government's position on this very important issue? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u229	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u230	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say first of all that I am very critical of the bill presented by the Law and Justice concerning changes to the Institute of National Remembrance. I have the impression that the proposed solutions are designed to subjugate the IPN to the ruling party and fill positions in the Institute of People with Law and Justice. But by the way, Mrs Zofia Czernow has already mentioned this, and others have been given it. The rules introduced eliminate the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom. During my work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I tabled a number of amendments aimed at keeping this institution in our legal order so that it could so far carry out its tasks well. All these amendments were rejected. Therefore, I would like to ask the Members of the applicants whether you know the opinion of the Federation of the Katyn Families or the Foundation of the Polish-German Reconciliation, i.e. organisations which have little in common with politics, which cannot be accused of political sympathy, because both the Federation of the Katyn Families and the Foundation of the Polish-German Reconciliation have with great concern adopted information about the intention to liquidate the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom, highlighting the good cooperation and merits of the council in commemorating historical events and places, as well as figures in the history of fighting and martyrdom of the Polish people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u231	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance assumes among others. will be replaced by a 9-person college of scientists to be appointed by the Sejm and the Senate at the request of the College of IPN. The procedure for selecting the President of the Institute is also to change according to the project. The Sejm would do so with the consent of the Senate, after consulting the College of IPN. Will another institution be taken over by law and justice? I hope that this will not have a negative impact on the high assessments of IPN's activities so far. In mid-March, the Sejm law firm asked the selected institutions to give an opinion on the project. For unknown reasons, the National Remembrance Institute itself was not consulted. Answer me why. Why don't you ask for an opinion on the planned changes to the Institute most interested in this matter and the functioning of the Institute from the lining? Why? - I'm asking you again. Or is it because you expect criticism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u233	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Contrary to what the previous speakers have just said, it seems that the idea of combining the Institute of National Remembrance with the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom may be a good idea, because it will allow us to focus in one place the competences that will serve to properly commemorate Poles, institutions, organizations that fought for the freedom of our country and nation. Until now, it has not been entirely clear what situations the council is supposed to deal with these matters, and in which IPN. The law clearly regulates this. The bill clearly responds to the demand of recent months, and even years, which is related to the search for remains of people who have been murdered, especially by Communists. What happened on the Link, many months and even years of administrative bullying, the lack of decision, made it very difficult to search for these remains. The Act explicitly regulates the procedures to be used at the moment and temporarily limits this administrative mode, which is very important because time is getting less and less. But the question is, what about these samples of genetic material that have been taken so far? When creating a new genetic database, the previous statements of families, relatives of people who were murdered, where it was indicated in the statement that they were transmitting it to the existing places that took these samples of genetic material... Wouldn't these people have to rewrite their statements so that these samples could be transferred to a newly created database? It is worth checking and possibly regulating. The question also arises as to why the IPN structure was not adapted to the administrative division. That's the question. not only for such purely practical reasons, but also for the fact that it takes over the documentation and competence of the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last element that I would like to ask: In what mode will the IPN be able to exhume the remains of people who fought for Poland before 1917? It doesn't happen often, mostly insurgents. It's not gonna be prosecutorial. So in what mode will the IPN do this, and with what institutions will he have to cooperate to make such exhumations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u235	Thank you very much, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u236	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You're the Prime Minister. In fact, I address this question mainly to the Prime Minister of Gliński, Professor Gliński as Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Prime Minister of Government, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, also representative after 1989 of various political backgrounds and representative of the academic, scientific world. History of Poland is not PiS-owska's history or the history of Law and Justice, just as the history of Poland was not the history of PZPR, and the professor knows it very well. Just as the interpretation of history, the latest history of Poland in the release of PZPR has gone bankrupt, so another institution is politically owned by one political option, in this case Law and Justice. Professor, you must realize that such an idea is in danger of bankruptcy. I'm asking you for two reasons. Firstly, you are a representative of many backgrounds, at least two political groups after 1989. Why will this political monopolization be served, which is most expressed in this creation of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance? Today will be very mono-party. Why do you turn away from the world of science, from the academic world in the selection of candidates? After all, it is only with help, for the sake of the cause, and we are creating a novel of an institution that is to write, which is to respond and prove the historical facts that have taken place, connected with the life of our country. So why do you, as a representative of these different, also anti-communist environments from the academic world, not protest at the level of the government, at the level of the parliamentary club? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second, more detailed issue is related to what is the reason that there are sloppy records again, as evidenced by the comments of different institutions to individual records. Why are you in such a hurry to implement this, since it is so important, when we are talking about a very important institution of the Polish state? Thank you for, among others. At the request of the Civil Platform, the vacathio legis of certain provisions has been extended to 60 days. Please reconsider this proposal made by Mr Antoni Mężyłko. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u237	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Waldemar Buda, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u238	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant whether it is true that the members of the Board of the Institute of National Remembrance concluded civil law agreements with the President of the IPN. If that were the case, it would be a big scandal, because the council as an entity to control, supervise, recommend IPN activities would be on the president's belt, so how would it perform all these functions. Answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u239	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosiewiski from the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u240	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, According to the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in print No 447, minority proposals are presented which, in my opinion, would completely block positive changes in the Institute of National Remembrance. For example, I will mention only two proposals. Proposal No 2 proposes a number of restrictions on the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is an attempt to block good changes. And since I have the status of a victim, I have the right to require the proper work of institutes for this called. Minority proposal No 4 intends to restrict the President's rights and deprive the largest group of the possibility of submitting candidates to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. These and other minority conclusions are against Polish history, contrary to Poles. These proposals are hostile to democracy in Poland. [[What's he saying?]] Mr Reporter, what was the translation of these senseless and damaging minority proposals in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Anti-Polish conclusions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u241	Thank you very much. And another question will be asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to ask you why the need for a recommendation or certification in the use of archive materials has not been lifted. This is a bureaucratic solution hindering the use of collections and imposing additional obligations on IPN in the form of verification of these recommendations. In addition, it does not guarantee the reliability of the use of materials, for which the user is responsible, not the recommender. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u243	Thank you very much. Another question - Mr Antoni Mężyłko, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased that today the Ministry of Culture is represented in this rank, because at first reading there were only representatives of applicants. I have a question for the Prime Minister because I very much value the Prime Minister in the government, and I would like to make you aware that today's provisions of the law make the compromise in the election of the President of the IPN really rub off on the scientific community and the parliament. Although coalitions have changed, I have always been in the governing coalition since my last three term, and I have some experience in this process, and I have also participated in it, although I lost during this process of rubbish. It lasts in the clowns, much earlier than it is voted in the Seym and later in the Senate. But it is necessary for such a candidate to find the consent of the College of IPN and at the same time to find the majority in the Seym, as well as in the Senate. It's not always that simple. Today you have a simple situation when it comes to the Senate and the Sejm. But why else did you exclude the scientific community? After all, when it comes to the method of calling only based on ethical and moral criteria, it is important that candidates meet ethical and moral criteria, but they are not objective. On the other hand, the provisions concerning the choice by the academic community, even to such a specific extent as history, contemporary history, etc., are substantive, sharp and methodologically very efficient criteria. Here we have experience regarding the functioning of this and the opposition environment, as well as solidarity are very pleased with the functioning of the IPN in this term of office. We wouldn't want this to stay... for the IPN to be politically exploited. That's why we're protesting. If, Prime Minister, we agree to this, we in the Senate will report these amendments so that the College of IPN is appointed in such a way, in accordance with this mechanism, as is in the existing law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a mechanism that should be replicated. It's gonna stay for us. This will be used for the appointment of heads of other institutions, such as: National Radio and Television Council. It's not there. The Prime Minister is also under the responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council. See, that mechanism isn't so perfect, it's defective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a big round of applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u245	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The project submitted regulates very important issues concerning the memory of people who have lost their lives as a result of the fight against the imposed totalitarian system, as a result of totalitarian repression or ethnic cleansing. It extends the scope of research and, above all, clearly clarifies the educational functions of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is extremely important to properly shape the patriotism of the young generation, as well as defend the name of the country from spreading false content both in the country and abroad. We do not know the burial sites of many patriots who with their lives paid for their refusal to consent to the totalitarian system or died for being Poles. There's a lot of work to be done. The families of these people are still waiting to find the resting place of their loved ones. Polish patriots are waiting for this. The reasons for the regulation of the search for work at rest are concrete examples of problems that the Institute of National Remembrance had to face during the search work carried out on the so-called. Links at the Military Cemetery in Powązki and at the cemetery in Służewo. Prime Minister, will the new provisions of the law prevent such problems from arising from further search? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u247	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Józef Brynkus, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The statements of some Members asking questions show that they do not understand the nature of the Institute of National Remembrance. [[It's okay if someone understands everything.]] Mr Nitras, I am a researcher, I use archives deposited at the Institute of National Remembrance, and I know what the functioning of this institution is. This is not only a police institution directed against any political option, but above all it is a research institution, creating a specific image of Polish history after World War II, and now also earlier. Therefore, I regret to note that some of the questions asked show that some of the questions asked They didn't even read the bill. For example, your envoy asking questions relating to the composition of the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. The next issue is the matter of the Council of the Institute of National Remembrance - this is an institution which is to have a completely different character than the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. But going to the question, I will also ask by nature those you have asked, a question of a political nature, not a question of substance, and I would like both the applicant's and the government's Prime Minister Gliński to answer this question: Why is there still no provision in this law that would at least equal the use of the archival materials of those who were persecuted after the Second World War by the communist repression apparatus? There are still rules that favour those who persecuted Poles after World War II. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u250	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask questions in two areas. The first concerns the area of interest of the Institute in the topic of the search for resting places of people who died in the fights for independence and the unification of the Polish state. In the draft law we have such a record that in terms of the resting places of people who died in battles, this applies especially to those who lost their lives due to the fight against the imposed totalitarian system or due to totalitarian repression or ethnic cleansing, and there is a mentioned period, while such a term excludes the insurgents of both Wielkopolska and Silesian. Undoubtedly they lost their lives fighting for independence of the Polish state, right? These are undoubtedly the resting places that the institute should be looking for, but such a provision excludes. So how will this be implemented? Why do you exclude insurgents, even though they undoubtedly fulfil this condition, that they have fallen in battles for independence and unification of the Polish state? Second thing, more general. It seems that historical memory is not subject to current political change. Of course, we can put more or less emphasis on working on what is related to this memory, on analyzing history, but it is difficult to agree with such an approach that this is our story to be subject to a political narrative. That is why I would like you here to try, however, at a further stage of proceding both in the Sejm and in the Senate to move away from the human resources solutions that will be ours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The institute brings to the role to which the Polish Television is now being imported, i.e. de facto the propaganda tube of one of the parties to the political dispute. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u251	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, I wanted to refer to a case that is quite controversial, i.e. a change in the functioning of the IPN, i.e. the period to be dealt with by the IPN. You're bringing it in consistently. 8 November 1917 Also in the article. 2 you change the legal definition of communist crime, and according to you, communist crimes will be all actions Also since 1917. Do you have any idea what the consequences will be? What do you want to achieve with this? Are you really going to rewrite the history of the Second Republic? Will you now review the May bombing in accordance with these regulations, or will the IPN want to treat it as a communist crime? Because what were the communist crimes in the Second Republic? Perhaps the applicant or someone else is able to answer me whether there were communist crimes in the Polish state between 1918 and 1917, as you say, and 1939. If you do not, will you then create them, or will you review them? Why don't you call the Brest elections different? What is the State's intention to change this recipe at all and to move history so deeply? Do you, as politicians, feel responsible for the truly new story you intend to write, the 20th interwar anniversary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u253	Thank you very much. That was the last question. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I would ask you to take the floor in the following part of the discussion by the rapporteur of the Mark Ast committee. [[The voice in the courtroom is your marshal, and so am I, as an applicant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A large proportion of the questions were addressed to the applicant's representatives, to the applicant's Member and to the Prime Minister, so I will limit myself to those to which the rapporteur of the committee can answer, and I will either answer these questions or to those directly addressed to me. Mr Nitras asked why this law was not, this project was not created in consultation with the opposition environment, with the Civic Platform environment, but after all we worked on this project in committee, we listened to the voices of all the Members who took part in the committee's work. Surely this project is not directed against anyone. As a matter of fact, as to the nature of the Institute's work, its tasks, its objectives here nothing in the project is changed. I think that as regards the base in Szczecin, the applicant will be given a detailed response, but it is certainly not that this project affects anybody's interests. I think that here absolutely designers do not violate the status quo on fundamental issues. With regard to Mr Gosievski's question, I can say that the justification for the opposition's proposals, the minority's conclusions in general were aimed at preserving the state of affairs so as to preserve this status quo, simply not really change anything. On the other hand, if we were to go in this direction, we could say that we could not actually carry out any amendment of any law, because we know that the intention of any amendment is to improve the state of affairs so far. As far as the college of the Institute is concerned, it is not the intention of applicants to restrict access to the college of the institute of people with academic titles, on the contrary. On the other hand, the intention of this change is to extend the circle of people who will be able to sit in the college of the Institute so that representatives of different backgrounds can participate in the work of this college to a wider extent. The remaining questions were rather addressed to the applicant, and I think Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk will answer these questions. I also think - because Mr Karpiński asked about the haste - that there was no special haste here in the process of this law in committee. In fact, everyone could fully express themselves, express their opinions. As I said, the work was attended by representatives of the institute, headed by the President of Kaminski. This is also the answer to the question about the lack of opinion of the Institute of National Remembrance. Practically this opinion was given in every speech by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance or his colleagues. At the end of this speech, I would first of all like to thank all those who took part in the work of the committee. Thanks to our joint efforts, this project has been well tested, resulting in today's report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank all the parliamentarians for their cooperation in the design of this project. This project is in my opinion an initiative that will give a new impetus, a new field for the Institute of National Remembrance. It should be stressed that, in fact, the role that the legislator had for the IPN several years ago is slowly running out in my opinion, because the disclosure of these security services documents continues, the people who were interested in it, have already possessed this knowledge. That is why this initiative that we are debating today, and tomorrow, I hope, will give a great deal of room for further action, for further initiatives for the Institute. For the questions you have asked, thank you very much, but I would like to stress that some of these questions are simply due to the ignorance of the justification of the bill as well as the current course of work on the project. [[Maybe a misunderstood question, sir. I don't understand the questions.]] First of all, I would like to stress that as regards specific questions, you questioned the scope of the Act: 1917 and 1990, which is communist crimes. Without any pinches towards Mr Kropiwnicki, I would like to remind you that genocide on the borders has taken place since 1917 when the Bolshevik state in Volyn, the communist state, carried out the slaughter of Polish landscaping. Tens of thousands of Poles lost their lives then, and the communist state committed these crimes. In the years 1937 and 1939, Stalin was ordered to be murdered at the borders of more than 200,000. Poles. These crimes could not so far be investigated by the Institute of National Remembrance, either in criminal proceedings, neither in educational mode nor in research mode, so that we open the field to such activities of the Institute, so that through legal actions, but also educational activities, research activities, the Institute of National Remembrance has legal instruments to appear to those countries where there are documents concerning crimes on Poles, on Polish soil on borders, in Volyn. The families of hundreds of thousands of Poles who were then murdered in the former Polish lands on the border to this day have not seen either the truth or the knowledge of those crimes, therefore this amendment gives the opportunity to lead the IPN in this respect due course. It is Mr Kropiwnick, I think, who will explain that this is not about prosecuting, Mr, politicians or interwar activists, but it is about investigating and downloading documentation on crimes in Poles at the borders in 1917, 1937, 1939. As for the allegations that had been made regarding the absence of a competition before - because some Members referred to the original project here, they did not know that within a month this project had been modified - there will be a competition for the President of the IPN, we are not blocking the profession from participating in the work of the college, because as you know, the Sejm elects 5 members of the college, 2 elects the President, 2 - Senate. They may also be members of the college professors, so the allegation that we are allegedly blocking access to the profession is misplaced. On the other hand, Mr Mężydła, and in particular Mr Święcicki, you created a model five years ago, which gave great opportunities or huge opportunities for the influence of academics. In fact, academic communities have monopolized the choice of members of the IPN Council. We find this model to be profoundly unfair, because it leads to a certain corporateisation of IPN, a university or a scientific environment... [[You need a farmer, a miner and a steelsmith.]] ...which I believe that - as you pointed out today, which also betrayed your intentions - and so to say, that you were hurting, because you said so, the candidate, that is, you created fiction, you gave the universities the right to choose members of the council, and yet this advice had to agree with you who would be president of the IPN. You said you lost. I wonder which candidates this choice was made from. So what was it like, sir? You met in Prime Minister Donald Tusk's office, you, a few members of the council, and agreed on who would be president? So you created a bill that was actually fiction. You created fiction, right? You said that they suffered in political and scientific circles for the president of the IPN. We're leaving this fiction. [[Do you have any charges against these people?]] It follows that this president was actually elected in extra-legal mode. You confessed to it today. So the election of the President of the IPN will follow the contest conducted by the College of IPN, the candidacy will be proposed to the High House, and the High Chamber will be able to accept or reject the candidate for President of the IPN. [[And I'll give you the names of the candidates today.]] Another point is this charge concerning the corporationisation of the previous IPN Council. During my first reading, I drew your attention to what it looked like, and I believe that this was a deeply pathological situation where the President of the IPN concluded civil law agreements with the members of the board. [[Not the president, not the president. IPN.]] The most of these contracts you had were Antoni Dudek: reviews, publications, other things. We have no knowledge of how many of these contracts have been concluded. The IPN did not want to make this information available to journalists, and I therefore believe that this model was deeply pathological when the president of the Institute concluded civil law agreements with the members of the Council and that they accepted reports from him every year. It was a deep pathological system. We are changing this, and therefore we are eliminating the Council, the way in which we choose, and therefore we are introducing a ban on civil law contracts for any services or services for the President of the IPN and for members of the college. Breaking this ban will be tantamount to stopping membership of the college, which will be a reason for appealing from the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. The Institute of National Remembrance actively participated in the work on the project, submitted a 40-page opinion, many of the comments concerning the pragmatics of the functioning of this institution were taken into account, while after 5 years of operation of the Institute of National Remembrance needed changes in the system resulting from the creation of new rules of operation, the introduction of new mechanisms, the extension or creation of a vertical instrument on the exhumation of totalitarian victims, the creation of a genetic base, which will be at the Institute of National Remembrance. Here I am thinking in particular about information about victims of totalitarianism and members of their families and about the granting of competences related to commemoration, i.e. the whole process concerning exhumation and search, identification, genetic basis, commemoration, which will be in the hands of the Institute of National Remembrance. There is an important division here, and it must also be stressed, because Members asked whether the Institute of National Remembrance would not be able to deal with the victims of independence uprisings. Indeed, there is a situation that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage is responsible for the entire commemoration policy. In this direction, some amendments were made in the second reading, so that the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage would also be responsible for all the commemorations and historical policies, while the Institute of National Remembrance will place particular emphasis on its activities for the years 1917 and 1990. So, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, this project, this initiative, despite some reservations, will give new instruments, will give the Institute new tools for offensive activities aimed at building Polish identity, remembering heroes, traditions and conducting historical politics. I would like to stress further, because here you have tabled an amendment, which was proposed by the representatives of the Jewish community at the committee meeting, that I think it is not good that you have tabled this amendment, because we are, of course, able to understand the arguments of the Jewish community, which should have the knowledge of exhumations concerning the victims of the Mosesian religion or Jews, whereas the introduction into the bill only such a requirement or obligation of the Institute of National Remembrance to inform that exhumation or exhumation is being carried out, or whether exhumation of Jews will be carried out, may result in the charge of unconstitutionality... [[Who's gonna say that?]] ...because, similarly, citizens of other religions may also demand or demand that it be included in the bill. We therefore believe, and this was the suggestion during the committee's work, that this should already be in relation to the actions of the prosecutor who should inform and treat such a municipality as a participant in the prosecutor's proceedings. To this extent, we will ask the Attorney General or the head of the criminal prosecution committee to provide guidelines or instructions to inform municipalities or other religious unions in the event of discovery of burial sites of citizens or crimes on Jewish citizens or citizens of other religions. Therefore, we believe that the introduction of this amendment would be bad, unconstitutional, would affect a certain balance, because Polish citizens of other religions might feel discriminated against. As far as the genetic database is concerned, this is for Mr Nitras. Mr Nitras, we cannot state in the bill that one city will own the entire genetic resource... [[Who here doesn't understand the questions?]] ...all the victims of totalitarianism in Poland. The genetic database, i.e. here I think about genetic material, about bone samples, will remain in Szczecin, while the database itself, i.e. information about the victims, about their families, will be in the IT system that will create the Institute of National Remembrance. And here nobody takes anything from anyone, Mr. President. [[You're manipulating, sir.]] So, sir, please don't scare the public in Szczecin that whatever we want to take from Szczecin. Szczecin will have what he had. These work results, which within 3 years have been achieved by the University of Szczecin, will be there. On the other hand, we cannot force the President of the IPN to use only the services of one institution or one university, Mr. [[You're manipulating.]] Therefore, I ask you not to rule out the law of other universities from other cities so that they can also seek to store genetic material in the future. [[You lobby for one college and manipulate it.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, High Izbo, to recap...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u257	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u258	You're the one who's manipulated before. In conclusion, once again, I would like to thank you very much for working on this bill and I ask the High House to accept it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u259	Thank you very much. Does the Prime Minister, the Minister of Culture and National Heritage want to speak? You're welcome. [[Your Marshal...]] I can see you. Sit down. [[Is the corrigendum first or later, Marshal?]] Have a seat. I'm hearing about your motion for corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a parliamentary project, so I am acting as if in addition, a little to the voice, because in fact this matter concerns the issue that we are dealing with, we have a duty to deal with in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage - this is the result of the law on the departments of government administration. But in this connection, I will only answer a few questions, because most of the others have already been consummated and the answers have been answered. Of course, there is no narrowing down, professors and academics can operate in the college. Notabene, sir, you spoke as if the college were. As you know, he's not here. Someone erased this college for some reason, did it for political reasons, as we know, and eliminated a lot of people from this college. So that's how it was. We're restoring the college, Art. 15 says that a College of the Institute of National Remembrance is being established. And, of course, there can be professors and academics. The question of respect for religion was also explained. I know there's been a request in the committee, which is pre-trial in the Ministry of Justice. This can be a matter, especially Jewish religion, of particular sensitivity in the case of this religion related to respect for the remains, but in other religions it is also obvious that this respect is regulated by the guidance of the Attorney General. Let us not lead to hypertrophy of the law, let us not attempt to regulate everything. And I think, since there is such a proposal, and the Ministry of Justice, as far as I know - the Minister confirms - is considering this, the prosecutor-general's guidelines on these issues will be sufficient. I would also like to say that, of course, in practice, we are dealing with such matters on an ongoing basis, and I think it is always possible that the Polish administration, regardless of what political provision it would be, would respectfully approach these issues. Recently, we had, literally two weeks ago, an investment problem in the Jewish cemetery in Płońsk. There are the graves of Ben Gurion's family. We stopped this investment in an intervention manner, this place is now under conservation protection. We'll always be sensitive to that, but I'm sure the Attorney General's instructions will come in handy here, too. I support that argument. We're in no hurry. I participated, however, on a random basis only because of other responsibilities, in the work of the committee and I noticed that a large number of Members of various clubs, including those who are insanely active in this place, were not or left after 15 minutes during the work of the committee when the debate was going on. After all, many hours were debated in committee, later in a special subcommittee on this project. So I don't think there's any particular restriction, this debate isn't limited. Although my experience in parliamentary life is small, so maybe it is, but I don't think so. I really saw people who were 15 minutes in committee, then they left, and here they're almost occupying the platform, because there are cameras here, there's something to talk about. And there is hard work, such a programmed and often demanding simply substantive commitment. And finally, the answer that didn't come up, and there were two questions about the Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fight and Martyrdom. According to this concept, which stems from the Law on Departments, as regards the functions of the Council, most of these functions pass directly to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. So far they have been supervised by the Ministry, so it's like it's consuming the issues of the Departments Act. At the moment, functions, but also employees and property are transferred to the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. We'll take care of the staff: I think it's Art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act states that new working conditions and wages will be proposed, but will comply with the required qualifications and remuneration rules, and there will be a deadline for admission or not, of these conditions by employees. So that it is not so that these workers can be manipulated and reduced freely, changed to worse pay conditions and their working conditions. I can assure you, if it's under my direction, there won't be any special... Besides, it is a normal matter: if there is a certain organisational change, workers enter the office, they have proposed similar conditions, I think, according to qualifications, there are 7 days to accept or refuse to accept the proposed conditions. This is a civilized way of transformation for the good and, of course, according to the will of the legislator, if this is the will of the Sejm. I think that's it. For different interpretations as to what is the version of history, Mr, one way or another - this is the normal operation of democratic mechanisms, at least that is my opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u261	Thank you very much. At the gallery there are students from Primary School 18 in Koszalin, so already young people are interested in parliamentarianism. We salute them all. I hope it'll be a nice trip and a memory. [[Applause]] And now on the issue of correcting Mr Antoni the Man. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Those words that came from the Mularczyk... [[He sent the Mularczyk.]] ...in my direction, they can't be left without comment, because they're false, and they can't be false accusations. I absolutely didn't talk about the days on the Civic Platform. As you know, I have pointed out that I have already been three terms... for the last three terms I have been in the governing coalition and, as far as the IPN cases are concerned, I did not have such a high position on the Civic Platform when the president was elected. This happened in PiS times. And if you want to know who I've lost to, I'll give you a hint that this is a person who has a very high state position today. It was about the election that you won Professor Kurtyk, and I had another candidate. It's just a correction so it doesn't get falsely understood that this was happening on the Civic Platform. [[Shame.]] On the other hand, there was a much better mechanism in the Civic Platform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the identification of this candidate.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u263	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u264	And here, Professor, as the professor referred to my question, I must tell you...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u265	Thank you very much. Mr Nitras also wants to correct it. Member Antoni the Man: ...that the coalition didn't even agree that candidates would have a higher education - not a science degree, that is, from a doctor up, but even a higher education. This amendment has been removed. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Nitras, please. That's all the corrections. [[Oh, no, I volunteered, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u266	Thank you, Marshal. I wanted to correct the misunderstood by Mr Mularczyk - let us assume that misunderstood - my statement. I am sorry that Mr Mularczyk interprets my speech in this way, because it did not sound that way at all. You know my amendment and you know that I am not defending one institution in this amendment, I am not trying to take away the National Remembrance Institute's influence on the genetic base. I understand that the genetic base - Prime Minister, it is also for you - should be within the Institute of National Remembrance, but unfortunately you lied from this speaker, because my amendment is not going to defend one institution. [[What's the amendment?]] My amendment, which I made. You don't know her, and it's a shame you don't know her. She is going to maintain respect for the achievements that were developed in Szczecin, also at the medical academy, and that this base within the IPN should be in Szczecin. It's not just about being created based on the medical university in Szczecin, it's about respecting the achievements of many years of work, and it's about [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't destroy it. And you, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u267	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u268	...lies, destroys this work. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u269	Time's up. There you go, Mr Święcicki, one minute too. In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, arguing with me, said that there was a ban on contracts between members of the college and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and that this was some kind of pathology. I didn't argue with that, and I didn't say anything about it at all. This is not an argument for what you've done... You have cut off scientific communities, the Polish Academy of Sciences and university departments, which have a sufficiently high level of teaching and the possibility of awarding scientific titles, from the possibility of extending candidates to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. This is, I think, a harmful thing, and it was mine, so to speak, a criticism and my question: Why have you cut off the scientific community from the institute that is to deal with memory, historical research, historical education, from bringing out candidates from whom the Sejm and the Senate were to ultimately elect members? I think this is the politicization that these environments have been [[♪ The bell ♪]] cut off from that possibility.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u271	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u272	And it has nothing to do with conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u273	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Before we proceed to the next item on the agenda, there is also a group of young people from Wiskitek on the other side of the gallery. It's a very difficult name, but welcome too. I hope that this stay in the Seym will be a pleasure for you and something new compared to the school bench class. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report of the Social Policy Committee and the Family on the draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer (Prints No. 362 and 412). I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u274	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The proposal for a law amending the Act of 11 October 2013 on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act of 13 July 2006 on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer is intended primarily to align the existing Act on special arrangements relating to the protection of jobs with the legal status which is in force in connection with the entry into force of the Act of 15 May 2016 and to correct the manifest mistake of the writer in the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The following changes are proposed: firstly, as a result of the separation of insolvency proceedings and restructuring proceedings into separate legal acts, i.e. the Act of 28 February 2003 on insolvency and restructuring law, it is necessary to replace in the relevant provisions of the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs appeals to the provisions of the Act on insolvency and resolution by appeals to the provisions of the Act on insolvency respectively. In addition, the draft amendment aims to align the provisions of the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs with the Act on insolvency in connection with the repeal of the article. 12 of this law, it concerns bankruptcy and resolution law, by Article. 428 Restructuring Law. A new definition of insolvency as set out in Article. 11 ww. Insolvency laws have taken into account economic considerations for determining the financial situation of entrepreneurs. In the context of the so-called liquidity insolvency of the trader, the article was deleted. 12 Bankruptcy and resolution law as a whole, whereas Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 in the version previously in force has not been transferred to the Restructuring Law. The explanatory memorandum to the draft Restructuring Law states that the loss of the ability to regulate liabilities should result from an assessment of the financial condition of the debtor's business. Insolvency should not be demonstrated by the fact that the debtor, e.g. for reasons beyond his control, he is unable to repay the debt at any time. The current insolvency law system protects market participants from a debtor who has lost his ability to regulate his debt for financial reasons. However, it should not be the aim of the legislator to introduce market elimination opportunities for entities which do not regulate their obligations due to reasons other than lack of liquidity. Proposed amendment of the Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 11th Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer is intended to indicate the appropriate reference to the article. 23a ww. Act as it stands. It is proposed that the provisions of the proposed law enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. The print project No 362 entered the Sejm on 8 March, and on 18 March the Marshal of the Sejm addressed it to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, which at its meeting on 12 April welcomed it without opposition and recommended that the High House adopt it as in print No 412. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u275	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Jan Mosiński to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer, print no. 362 and 412. Discussion of the changes to the legislation cited at the outset is an opportunity to take a broader look at the problem of lack of remuneration for the work done. I would like to stress that the law and justice in this House have repeatedly raised the problem of not paying for the work done, which has often been a drama for many workers. Unfortunately, our conclusions remain unnoticed. This is under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party of the employer in a general manner legalized with payment of salaries for the total amount of almost PLN 190 million. However, remuneration for work is the basis for the existence of most Polish families, therefore it is an element of social order, which from the point of view of law and principles of social relations should be subject to special protection. The employee's remuneration is protected not only by labour law but also by civil, administrative and criminal law. Here we have a question about the scale of this phenomenon. According to the State Labour Inspection data in the first half of 2015, there were more than 30,000 cases of non-payments to employees. Non-payments are most often made in small and medium-sized enterprises, such as construction, trade and industrial processing. Of course, employers, without paying their employees' wages, tend to explain the company's economic problems. This kind of practice is not our agreement. For failure to pay the employer's salary, there is a fine of 1 000. Up to 30,000. zł. In the first half of 2015, the labour inspectors imposed almost 3 000. fines for employers who did not pay their wages or lower them. They also sent about 580 applications to court to punish employers who committed this offence. I would like to point out that during the last period we are seeing improvements, although employers still have tens of millions of PLN backlogs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Returning to the draft amendment of the Law of 11 October 2013 on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act of 13 July on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stress that the proposed amendments aim at adapting the current Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs to the legal status that is in force in connection with the entry into force of the Law on Restructuring and correcting the obvious typographic error in the Act on the Protection of Workers' Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The legislator has separated insolvency and restructuring proceedings into separate legal acts and it is therefore necessary to replace in the amended Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs appeals to the provisions of the Act of 28 February 2003. Insolvency and resolution laws by appeals to the provisions of the Act of Insolvency accordingly. In addition, this draft law aims to align the wording of the law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs with the provisions of the Insolvency Law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the amendments proposed in the amendment to adapt the wording of the Article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. Point 4 of point 1a and Article 4 thereof. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (3) to the nature of insolvency proceedings. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposal for a change whereby the draft amendment provides for a change resulting from the repeal of the Article. 12 in the current Law of 28 February 2003 on insolvency law, and it is therefore appropriate to amend the amended Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs in the same way. After the amendment of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 will no longer constitute an indication of bankruptcy. In turn, the proposed amendment to the Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 11th Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer is intended to indicate the appropriate legal basis for the submission of the application. In the current wording, Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 refers to paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed amendments to the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer, prints No 362 and 412, and requests that they be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u277	On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will be presented by Mrs Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u278	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present its position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The draft itself is contained in print No 362, whereas the committee's report - in print No 412. The aim of the project is to align the existing Law on special arrangements related to the protection of jobs with the legal status which is in force with the entry into force of the Law of 15 May 2015. It therefore constitutes a kind of standardization of the law, not only to adapt the current rules to the changes in force, but also to improve them by correcting an obvious typographical error in the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. In addition, this draft law aims to align the wording of the law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs with the provisions of the Insolvency Law. The changes proposed in the amendment consist in adjusting the wording accordingly - here many articles can be quoted, but I do not want to quote so dryly - to the nature of insolvency proceedings by establishing new wordings of the above mentioned. rules. It should be noted that the proposed amendments also concern Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer, where the relevant legal basis for the application is indicated. This appears with appropriate references. The entry into force of the Act will not have any financial implications for the state budget. Nor is it contrary to European Union law. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform recommends that the attached draft be adopted by the High Sejm. Since I still have some time left for our club, I would like to express my surprise at the first part of Mr Jan Mosiński's speech. What I'm saying is that there was no and there will be no permission from the Civic Platform not to pay their employees their wages. Therefore, it is highly inappropriate to even suggest that such consent was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u279	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Stefan Romecki to speak on behalf of the Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Kukiz Club I have the honour - but it is also a great distinction for me - to present a position on the draft law amending the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The purpose of the draft amendment to the Law on special arrangements relating to the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer is to align the existing Act on special arrangements relating to the protection of jobs with the legal status which is in force in connection with the entry into force of the provisions of the Law on Restructuring as of 1 January 2016 and to correct the obvious typographic error in the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer. In summary, since it is in fact a purely technical and legislative procedure, the Kukiz Club does not object to the proposed project. Thank you for your attention. And also from this place I greet students from school 18 in Koszalin, as they have just come to my speech. Greetings from this place, from the podium. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u281	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Augustynowska to speak on behalf of the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of this bill is to align the existing law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs with the legal status which is in force in connection with the entry into force on 1 January 2016 of the Law of 15 May 2015. Restructuring Law, and to correct the obvious typographic error in the Act for the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The amendments proposed in the amendment consist only in adapting the wording of the following articles to the nature of insolvency proceedings. It is worth noting here that the protection of jobs should be one of the basic obligations of the State. Unfortunately, legislation in this area is contained in a number of legal acts, and information about the rights deriving from these laws is still not very popular in the awareness of both workers and employers who could benefit from these rights. It is difficult for lawyers, let alone employers, who still have a difficult life due to the overgrown bureaucracy concerning the Labour Code and other implementing acts concerning the labour market and labour law. It is not surprising, therefore, that there is a need to correct the obvious typographical errors that happen, but I would like and wish for all of us, citizens, to make the law clear, more understandable and transparent in the future. Then it would be easier to apply them and it would not need to be modified. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u283	Thank you very much. I would like another speech from Mr Krystian Jarubas, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u284	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on special arrangements related to the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of insolvency of the employer, prints No. 362 and 412. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the project is to align the existing Law on special arrangements related to the protection of jobs with the legal status which is in force with the entry into force of the Act of 15 May 2015 as of 1 January 2016. U. poz. 978, and correcting an obvious typographical error in the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims in the event of the insolvency of the employer. The aim of this project, ladies and gentlemen, is to align the wording of the law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs with the provisions of the Insolvency Law. The amendments proposed in the amendment consist in adapting the wording of the Article. 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (3) and paragraph 1. Point 1a (4) and Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (3) to the nature of insolvency proceedings. Due to the separation of the Bankruptcy and Recovery Law into two separate normative texts with the names of Restructuring Law and Bankruptcy Law, this change must take place. The Club of the Polish People's Party raises no objections and supports the proposed change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u285	Thank you very much, sir. As regards the list of questions, in this case no Member has submitted a question. I therefore ask that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed speak now. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all clubs very much for supporting the amendment of the Law on special arrangements for the protection of jobs and the Act on the protection of employees' claims in the event of the insolvency of their employer. It is a small change, adapting us to the amendment of the Restructuring Law, but on this occasion it is also worth to add a few words to this discussion. We have two important laws that employers actually use to a very limited extent. The first is the Law on special arrangements for job protection, i.e. situations where the right to exercise economic downtime or reduced working time can be exercised. The data we have, for the period from the entry into force of the Act, from 1 February 2015 to March this year shows that these benefits are used in a small part. The amount of 589 000 was allocated to the economic downtime benefits, which affected 107 employees. zł, for benefits for the reduction of working time - 800.900 employees - less than PLN 5 million and for insurance premiums less than PLN 1 million. We have the limits for 2016. I will remind you that for 2015 there was a limit of PLN 250 million. The use of these measures was less than 2%. This year there is also PLN 250 million. This first quarter looks very modest, too. As regards the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims and the possibility of using it in bankruptcy, liquidation, in 2015 there were 121 million PLN for almost 19 thousand. employees. For this year - we are in the first quarter - there are less than PLN 22 million, there are 2625 thousand. zł. At the moment, analyses of these two laws are underway at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. We are preparing changes to extend the scope of this law - we are talking here about the Act on the Protection of Employee Claims - so that what is important in this Act is that this assistance will be made as soon as possible through entrepreneurs to employees and that it can be extended to as many people as possible. The measures are guaranteed, it is worth considering the changes to this law. So that here we declare by the Ministry that such work is currently ongoing in the Ministry, we propose to you amendments concerning both laws. Thank you again for supporting this bill. I hope that this will be adopted unanimously in tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u287	Thank you very much. Would Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon still like to speak? [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: No, thank you.]] Thank you kindly. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights granted to workers in the context of the free movement of workers (prints Nos 431 and 454). I would also like to ask Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u288	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to point out that today, on this particular day, because today we have a world day to remember the victims of accidents at work, this is the second project on issues not only of labour law, but above all of the position of workers, of which I am extremely happy. Now, here's the thing. Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers, print No 431, entered the Sejm on 19 April 2016. On 20 April, Marshals of the Sejm sent him to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for first reading. The proposed amendment aims to introduce Directive 2014/54 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on workers in the context of their free movement in the field of Polish legislation which has not yet been regulated. On 27 April 2016, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs adopted a draft law proposed by the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy with minor amendments to the legislative provisions and requested the High House to adopt an attached draft law amending the Act on Employment Promotion and Employment Market Institutions, the Act on State Labour Inspection and the Act on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment, as in print No 454. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u289	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Jan Mosiński to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was honoured to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law which aims to transpose into the Polish legal order Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights granted to workers in the context of the free movement of workers in the field of the Polish rules which have not been regulated so far. I would like to present here in a few sentences the High House, as set out at the outset in the implementation directive. The aim of the Directive is to make it easier for mobile workers to exercise the rights granted under Article. 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Regulation No 492 of the European Union of 2011 More generally, the aim of the Directive is to define the measures that Member States should apply in order to facilitate migrant workers in the internal market and their family members' rights under the rules on free movement of workers. These measures include, inter alia, ensuring appropriate procedures enabling workers and their family members to pursue judicial claims related to the unjustified limitation of their rights, the introduction of measures to combat victimisation, i.e. harming someone, in connection with complaining or supporting dialogue with the social partners. Those measures should be applied in respect of the powers laid down in Regulation No 492/2011 mentioned earlier. The following legal acts concern the Polish legislation: the Labour Code Act, the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act, the Social Security Act, the Family Benefits Act and the Individual Income Tax Act, as well as the Social Assistance Act. I would like to draw your attention to the House that most of the obligations imposed by the Directive are already being implemented in the above-mentioned legislation, especially under labour law and social security law, as well as in the procedural rules on complaints and redress. Social dialogue also has its proper legitimacy in the Polish legal system and is conducted in cooperation with the social partners to combat unjustified restrictions and obstacles to the right to free movement and discrimination on grounds of nationality in relation to EU workers and their family members. Social dialogue and its promotion are within the scope of the Social Dialogue Council, which works in Poland to build a social agreement and regular dialogue between workers' and employers' organisations and government parties, and supports social dialogue at all levels of local self-government units. At this point, it should be stressed that during the governments of the coalitions of PO and PSL, especially in 2012 and 2015, the social dialogue did not function and the Tripartite Commission for Economic and Social Affairs was a dead creation. As a reminder, in October 2015, President Andrzej Duda appointed members of the Social Dialogue Council - a new forum for cooperation between government representatives, employers and employees. Mr Piotr Duda is the chairman of the Council for the coming year, counting from the date of its appointment. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In examining the bill submitted to transpose into the Polish legal order Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I state that Poland is prepared to implement the Directive. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the proposed bill by requesting its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u291	Thank you very much. I would ask Mrs Anna Wasilewska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights granted to workers in the context of the free movement of workers. These are 431 and 454 prints. The amendment to the proposed bill is the implementation of European Union law. This Act actually amends three laws, namely the Employment Promotion Act and the Labour Market Institutions Act of 20 April 2004, the State Labour Inspection Act of 13 April 2007 and the Law on the implementation of certain provisions of the European Union in the field of equal treatment of 3 December 2010. The amendments are based on the implementation of a directive laying down measures to be applied by Member States in order to facilitate the exercise of the powers laid down in the rules on the free movement of workers within the European Union by workers, citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and their families. In Poland, most of the obligations imposed by the Directive are already implemented, especially as regards labour law, social security, obligations relating to complaints and redress are being implemented. However, it is necessary to strengthen certain measures relating to the provision of independent legal advice as set out in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Directives. This is the largest change imposed on the State Labour Inspection which fulfils the condition of independence, as it is an institution directly subordinate to the Sejm. As far as possible, equal treatment actions carried out by a government representative on equal treatment to promote and support assistance with NGOs have been used. Actions for equal treatment and anti-discrimination by the Ombudsman have been strengthened. The division of tasks between the designated institutions will allow the use of organisational resources, experience, strengthening cooperation and reducing the costs associated with the implementation of the Directive. Few citizens of other European Union countries come to Poland as part of the free movement of workers, which is why we believe that there will be no organisational and financial problems arising from changes in the laws. However, this is a very important decision given the high number of Polish citizens working in other countries of the European Union. It is in Poland's interest to fully implement Directive 2014/54/EU in order to effectively enforce the rights of migrant workers. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will be in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u293	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Modern Club, I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Augustynowska to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers is a project designed to implement European Union law. Rightly, we are very happy that this project is finally implemented, but I will remind you that it took the Polish government a year. Unfortunately, there are a few things in the proposal that I would like to ask the rapporteur here and to which I have some comments. Firstly, additional powers are added to the State Labour Inspection, but it does not specify in detail how this will be done. In a new form, i.e. after implementation of this record, the labour inspection will provide legal advice. I know that he is doing this today, but it is justified that this assignment of the State Labour Inspection will allow for the use of a network of district inspectors, if necessary, to facilitate access to assistance throughout the country. However, it should be stressed that this is a new type of task to be carried out by the State Labour Inspection, and given the high complexity of some issues and the need to provide reliable advice in terms of substance, [[♪ The bell ♪]] There may be an organizational problem. Questions. Will there be any additional budget resources for this? How does the Chief Labour Inspector intend to deal with this task? Unfortunately, I lacked this information in the explanatory memorandum and in the consultation opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas will perform on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u296	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the report of the committee on the Government draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of Directive 2014/54/EU of 16 April 2014 on measures facilitating the exercise of rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers, printing Nos 431 and 454. The solutions adopted implement Directive 2014/54/EU, which indicates the measures to be provided by the Member States of the European Union to citizens of the European Union and the European Economic Area and their family members in order to facilitate the exercise of their rights under the free movement of workers. In practice, the implementation of the Directive is intended to contribute to raising awareness among citizens of the European Union and the European Economic Area of their powers in other Member States and, if necessary, to facilitating their investigation. All countries of the European Union are obliged to carry out the tasks set out in the Directive so that all mobile workers can benefit from the powers set out therein. Most of the tasks mentioned in the Directive are already being carried out by Poland. Currently, it is only necessary to designate an institution - one or more - which will carry out tasks related to the promotion of the rights of persons enjoying the free movement of workers, provide the necessary information on the labour market, provide independent legal advice, and conduct or commission independent research and publish independent labour market reports. According to the draft amendment, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy will promote equal treatment of EU workers in our country, in particular by: commissioning independent surveys and analyses and publishing independent reports and recommendations on unjustified restrictions and obstacles to the right to free movement and discrimination of workers, initiating and monitoring measures to combat unjustified restrictions and obstacles to the right to free movement and discrimination of workers, publishing information on the rules on the free movement of workers and their application in Poland, acting as a contact point for cooperation and exchange of information with other Member States on the free movement of workers. The draft amendment also broadens the scope of legal advice provided by the State Labour Inspection. Until now, workers from EU countries and members of their families in Poland have received legal advice on labour law and access to employment from the State Labour Inspection. After the changes, they will also be able to count on assistance on issues such as access to social and tax privileges, membership of trade unions, access to housing resources, access to education, vocational training and vocational education for children, assistance provided by labour offices. In order to ensure that the legal advice provided by the State Labour Inspection is reliable, it will be able to address public institutions, e.g. to ZUS, tax offices or tax offices, requesting information necessary to clarify individual cases reported by employees. The Polish People's Party Club is in favour of the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u297	Thank you very much, sir. Only Mr Waldemar Buda from the Law and Justice Club joined the list of questions. I'd like to ask you a question. Time, two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u298	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a lawyer, I am interested in the issue of this legal advice within the framework of the law. I'd like to ask you about the details. How is this task planned to work in the State Labour Inspection? Will such advice be given in each State Labour Inspection Inspector? Will these be external units with which the State Labour Inspection will conclude a contract? Will they be appointed for some hours, or will such guidance be available during the working hours of the State Labour Inspection Offices? Do we already know the details of the operation in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u299	Thank you very much. I would like an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the clubs for their support, Madam President, Mrs Bożenie Borys-Szopie, for the smooth running of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, briefly as regards the imposition of new obligations, including the State Labour Inspection. Here I would like to thank the Chief Labour Inspector for his favor with this solution. This is the optimal solution today so that information and advice can be provided in one place for foreigners from the countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area who are working in our country and are trying to stay in it. And it is the State Labour Inspection that will determine the conditions for this assistance. Of course, this has already been mentioned here, but let me remind you that in the article. 14 plus lithium. a and b, according to which the State Labour Inspection will have the right, in justified cases, to apply also to public administrations, including the heads of the tax offices, the directors of the tax chambers, as well as the Social Insurance Institution, to provide the necessary information so that this advice can be complete. And I think the National Labour Inspection can handle that. Of course, we are aware that we are imposing more obligations on the State Labour Inspection, also in view of what we will also see today - another directive on the posting of workers. And I hope that in the next year's budget of the State Labour Inspection, there will be higher resources to secure those tasks that we impose on the State Labour Inspection, because it is the body that will deal with it. It is worth recalling that when it comes to the data of citizens of the European Union who had an important right of residence in Poland in 2016, it is less than 64 thousand. citizens, including 7 000. with a right of permanent residence. How many people really live in Poland, we do not know exactly because there is no obligation to register these documents. I think that also this market, which is currently active in our country, is not yet numerous, but this directive also has the main objective of giving protection to Polish citizens who work in the countries of the European Union. This directive, which is adopted by other countries, is intended to serve this purpose. It will also make it easier for us to accept and assist Polish citizens in the countries of the European Union and the European Economic Area. Thank you again for your support and for the unanimous adoption of this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u301	Thank you very much. Does Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon want on behalf of... [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: No, thank you very much.]] No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the R &amp; D report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on traditional products and on certain other laws (Prints No 385 and 450). I ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on certain other laws. This report is contained in print No 450 and the draft law to which it relates is contained in print No 385. On 5 April this year. Marshal of the Sejm referred this project to the first reading in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which took place on 13 April. The Committee on Agriculture set up a subcommittee which examined the draft law on 26 April and adopted the report. The project concerns amendments in fact in three laws: in the Act of 17 December 2004 on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products, in the Act of 21 December 2000 on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and in the Act of 25 June 2009 on Organic Farming. Draft Print Act No 385 and 450 is intended to align these laws with Regulation No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. The amendment amends the application procedure for registration of protected names, geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed. The deadlines for examining applications are reduced and the catalogue of tools for supervising the activities of control bodies has been completed. The duties of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products and the principles of cooperation with the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection have also been clarified. This will improve the efficiency of the system of official controls and thus protect names more effectively on the market. In addition, the main inspector for the commercial quality of agri-food products is required to publish on the website a list of producers holding a valid quality certificate or a valid certificate of conformity. The proposal also proposes to replace too sensitive criminal rules on the incorrect use of names registered with financial penalties imposed by a regional inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products or a regional inspector of commercial inspection, given the different circumstances, of course. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development at its meeting on 27 April She considered the draft law that I was discussing, making a number of editorial and legislative amendments. On behalf of the committee, I request the High Sejm to adopt a government draft law amending the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods, and on traditional products and certain other laws in the version contained in print No 450. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u303	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to submit comments on the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and designations of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and on certain other laws contained in print No 385 and the report of the committee, print No 450. The adoption of this law is not only a simple consequence of adapting the Polish right to Parliament and Council Regulation No 1151 of 2012. When it comes to this adjustment, it has to be done. This is also due to the analyses which the European Commission has carried out and recommended regarding the use of the designation of origin, protected geographical indication and traditional speciality guaranteed. It seems to me that in Poland we have a great opportunity to take some important step in the development of this part of agricultural production, based on these provisions facilitating the registration of regional, traditional products. It is no secret that consumers are increasingly looking for food not anonymous, not mass food, but food that is associated with either the traditional way of production, or with specific origins, geographical regions. Many Western European countries have made this a key element of marketing, promotion. It is enough to say that before Poland entered the European Union, countries from our part of Europe, the Italians, the French registered hundreds of such products without any particular difficulties. When we entered, it turned out that procedures are complicated and those products in Poland have so far failed to register too much. On the other hand, logic suggests that this well-known Italian, French, Spanish products, such as French AOC marks, appellation d The origine contrôlée, or others... to do so as well. Especially since Poland has amazing, special, exceptional conditions to emphasize the traditions of food production, regionalism of food production. After all, in our lands, in our territories, despite the fact that post-war migrations have mixed Poles from different parts of the country, you can recreate food traditions, culinary traditions not only of Poles, but also of the Russians, Jews, Germans, Olendras, Mennonites, also of the nations that live in Poland at the moment. It is a huge wealth, cultural wealth, wealth that not only brings us glory as a multi-national, multicultural country, but also can be an excellent part of food promotion both on the domestic market... Consumers expect to leave, I will repeat once again, from anonymous, mass-produced, industrial food for products that are recognized, which are healthy, which are wanted, which are even ornaments of tables. This concerns certain good and highly assessed snobisms, which may be an incentive to buy precisely these products, but this does not apply only to Polish consumers in the internal market, although, according to our club, the internal food market is extremely important. We neglected him by thinking, dreaming of some sort of export loss. It's important that we get this internal market back. But this concerns not only Polish consumers. These solutions facilitating registration will also allow to increase the number of products that are our card for tourists visiting Poland, for all those who want to bring good impressions from Poland, memories of our cultural richness, our tradition, but also connected with the culinary memory. Such solutions concerning meat products, cheeses, alcohols, macerates or fruit distillates are achieved by many Polish tourists, leaving for other countries of the European Union or the Balkans. Why shouldn't we also make practical use of it? That is why this law, which we support - I also thank the committee and subcommittee led by Mr Dolata for improving this law - is very important and will help Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u305	I ask that Mr Zbigniew Ajchler speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the report on the government draft law amending the Act on registration and protection of the names and indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws. The purpose of the Act amending the Act on registration and protection of agricultural products and foodstuffs and on traditional products and certain other laws is to adapt the Polish legal order in this respect to Regulation No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. The draft law also takes into account certain changes resulting from the practice which, according to the applicant, aim to improve the system for the protection and registration of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs. The surveillance system and the efficiency of official controls of the protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications, traditional specialities guaranteed by the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection is expected to be strengthened, inter alia. by allowing inspections to be carried out on agricultural products in the event of the placing on the market of products produced which are not in conformity with the registration. In order to ensure the transparency of the system and to facilitate contact between the manufacturer and the consumer, the principal inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products will be required to publish on the website of the inspection a list of producers holding a valid quality certificate confirming the conformity of the production process of the agricultural product and the foodstuff with the specifications. The proposal also provides for fines to be imposed by the Chief Inspector for the commercial quality of agri-food products on certifying bodies in the event of non-compliance with the applicable law. The draft law will mainly affect producers of agricultural products and foodstuffs who will in the future apply for registration of the names of their products and foodstuffs, but has not been submitted to such more detailed consultations and arrangements with the representatives of the stakeholders. However, it must be stressed that the participation of producers in the EU system of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed is voluntary and is decided individually by each producer. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In a peasant way, this bill helps all of us, customers and consumers to do it. certain, safe shopping. We buy, looking at the labels, what is written there from the point of view of reliability and reliability of the record. If that's the case, we all know in our country. This bill will change that. Obviously, none of us want to pay for beautiful labels. The Act gives broad powers to the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles in terms of production control, criteria control, certification as well as penalties, as I mentioned earlier. This is a step towards taking the so-called products as consumers. Swiss trust, and with him here, as I mentioned earlier, is not good. Being in the European Union makes it possible to benefit from the acquis of the Union in the field of good law. This document serves good and reliable, and above all our health. That is why we should be very careful to be in the European Union. I would like to tell you that I am very happy with this bill, because this law will certainly introduce a certain order. This will not happen immediately, but I think that, as in other countries - Austria, Germany, Switzerland, France - we, consumers, will gain good and high confidence in the products we will buy. This bill, this bill is going in the right direction, which is why the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u307	Thank you very much. And to speak on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern, please, Mrs Ewa Lieder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u308	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment to the Act on the Registration and Protection of the Names and Designations of Agricultural Products and Foods and on Traditional Products and on the amendment of certain other laws, submitted by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, introduces new provisions on geographical indications of agricultural and food products. These amendments are related to the implementation of European Union rules in Polish law, namely Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. It refers to solutions common to all Member States of the European Union contained in Regulation No 882/2004 on official controls performed to confirm compliance with feed and food law, animal health and welfare rules. The introduction of the Regulation aimed at reducing the duration of EU procedures, as the process of marking was several years. The revision of the rules is also contained in Special Report No 11/2011 of the European Court of Auditors, as well as in the Audit Report of the European Bureau. Food and Veterinary. The project envisages strengthening the supervision and control system of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products both over authorised certification bodies and on producers of products. In Chapter 9, the title of which is changed to the title of "Criminal penalty' - Article. 57 - the extent of irregularities in the activities of certification bodies and producers of products which are subject to a monetary penalty shall be mentioned. Chapter 9 of the Act currently in force focuses on producers of products and also allows for a restriction or deprivation of liberty. In the new version of this chapter, the rules only sanction fines as revenue of the State budget, making them subject to the degree of harmfulness of the act, the extent of the infringement, the activities of the infringer so far and the amount of revenue. The tasks of the principal inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products shall be to publish information on producers and their products which have Union markings, thereby facilitating their recognition and access to the knowledge of products registered under the protected designation of origin, protected geographical indication and traditional specialities guaranteed. We hope that this will affect the building of consumer awareness and the creation of a positive image of our domestic products outside Poland. In addition, it will be possible to control the main inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products in producers who market products which do not comply with the registered specification under registered names or names referring to them, i.e. falsified. In terms of supervision, transmission of information on producers and marketing of the products concerned, the Chief Inspector shall cooperate with the Commercial Inspection and the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Other assumptions introduced by the Act of amendments are to improve the functioning of the system of protection and registration of geographical indications of agricultural and food products, i.e. protection against unlawful use of registered names in the case of products which do not meet the requirements of the specification, increasing the readability and efficiency of the system, guaranteeing the quality of the regional products placed on the market, as well as concreteising the provisions of the current law. Easier said, it's good for consumers to know exactly what they eat. We support the bill because of the alignment of Polish law with EU standards in this area. EU labels support the protection of regional traditions, and ensuring the quality of regional products can be included in one of the development paths of Polish agriculture which is a kind of promotion for the regions of Poland. This is a good project we'll support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u309	Thank you very much, Member. To speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club... Isn't Mr Mirosław Maliszewski here? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] If there is no Member, we will proceed with the questioning. Two Members are on the list. Does anyone else want to ask a question? I can't see. I'm closing the list. In that case, the first question will be asked by Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club. The question is asked for two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about a question which is misunderstood, sometimes misinterpreted and presented in a mocking, ironic way, namely the possibility of legalising fruit distillates and tinctures in Poland. Discussion on this subject in Poland is difficult because very often someone who speaks about it is treated as a person who wants, I don't know, to drink up society. This one has nothing to do with the other. Raising sobriety and preventive actions apply to all of us. On the other hand, if we want to market Polish agricultural production, and alcohols, also strong alcohols, are an important product of Polish agriculture, then maybe we should go in the direction that has long been decided in other countries of the European Union. The production of fruit distillates, whether for their own purposes or in a very limited quantity, of course under the control of the State, because they are acclimatised products, is acceptable in all countries of the European Union. Why, then, in Poland when it comes to those who produce Śliwiwica Łaczka, those who make pruszkowica, cherry, etc., or excellent producers of tinctures, they practically either have a way through torment, walks through mukam, or it involves having to operate in some sphere of uncertainty. It seems to me that such concerns are not justified. Of course, once again: State control is necessary, but I do not wish in the discussion of this kind of tone, which, several months ago, was presented by one of the vice-ministers of agriculture from the Polish People's Party, when he replied to the question of legalising fruit distillates that Members wanted to legalize moonshine. Ladies and gentlemen, let us approach this the way they do it in other European countries. Nothing more, nothing less - as they do in the countries of the European Union. They seem to be good patterns. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u311	Thank you very much. And one more question will be asked by Mr Zbigniew Ajchler. You also have two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen, It is always that you can have a good right, and the devil is in the details and execution of the law can vary. I mean, whether really this law that we are creating, which we are going to vote on, will change the trust of us, Poles, in what we produce from us, and in what we produce from imports. Will we really, Minister, convince consumers that the procedures used by the commercial inspection and other designated bodies are really reliable, really reliable. This also applies to institutions which certify food, which is always related to price, it is about quality. And yet we are talking about a very important thing about our health. As I said earlier on behalf of the club, no one wants to buy a product that is described beautifully, colorfully on labels. In our country so far there is little confidence in certified products. Therefore, this law and the people who will enforce and implement it have a huge burden. I would like to ask with all my power, Minister, the question: Are you really prepared to achieve this most important goal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u313	Thank you very much. On this we have exhausted the list of members of the floor in this part of the discussion. Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jack Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski's question, I would like to say that when it comes to regulating the production of fruit distillates, we are also working on this law and are taking it very seriously because the Ministry of Agriculture is aware that other countries have preceded us in this regard. Among other things, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, already entering the European Union, have guaranteed themselves different rates of excise duty on these products. In our case, in addition to the statutory arrangements that will result from the Act on Spirit Drinks, i.e. the solutions that are in our field of action, we also need solutions which are in the field of the Minister of Finance's operation, because the main limitation for the development of this type of production, even if we regulate this issue from the production side, may be restrictions on the high excise rate that will continue to apply to those who want to produce such products legally. We have already engaged in discussions with the Ministry of Finance on another agricultural product, and we are setting up joint teams to develop solutions to ensure that, on the one hand, the appropriate share of the country and the corresponding rates of excise duty are ensured, such as in other European Union countries, that production is taxed and not illegal, but, on the other hand, that the interests of Polish producers, Polish farmers, i.e. this market, agricultural party, also in the target solutions are secured. We are really able to develop good solutions that will serve this purpose, and ultimately we will really regulate this issue in such a way that in Poland this part of production is also treated as in other countries of the European Union. In answer to Mr Ajchler's question about preparing for good law in this area and, above all, the good implementation of the law in this area - even if I am not prepared to some extent, I assure you that my colleagues in the ministry are fully prepared and we will be able to implement any good solution so that we are able to regulate this area. As far as inspections are concerned, we want to change their functioning so that inspections are efficient on the one hand so that their competences do not overlap, on the other hand, that there is no gap in their operation. This is the idea of combining inspections, which will simplify the final control procedures in our expectation and at the same time ensure their efficiency and full control of food quality. It is important that this check is not burdensome for producers but effective for consumers. Similarly with regard to certification systems. We have an ambitious plan to ensure that in Poland there is one coherent system of certification of food, agri-food products. That would be such an ideal. It has happened that so far solutions have gone towards many systems, in other countries of the European Union we often encounter a situation when it is a single national system. Therefore, we will use not so much administrative methods as incentives for those who have already entered this system, to join together, to create one system, to cooperate with us as state structures, so that really there is a sign in Poland that guarantees good quality... [[Certainty.]] ...which will be recognizable and make sure that the labeled product meets the requirements that the consumer expects to meet. We're really well prepared for this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u315	Thank you very much. Would Mr Zbigniew Dolata like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u316	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to thank the Minister, the staff of the Ministry, for preparing this project. I would also like to thank the Members of all parliamentary clubs for their substantive work in the subcommittee and in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. The result of this work is the shape of this project, which, according to the agreed statements of representatives of all clubs, will gain the support of the entire High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u317	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of items 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda: 10. First reading of the parliamentary draft law on national media (print No 442). 11. First reading of the parliamentary bill on audiovisual contribution (print No 443). 12. First reading of the parliamentary draft law Provisions introducing the Act on National Media and the Act on Audiovisual Contribution (Print No 444). I would like to ask Barbara Bubula to provide the reasons for the draft print law No 442. Do we have an MP yet? [[Wait a minute, because there's an acceleration.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'll start with a quote that's seemingly unrelated to the subject, but it's about to turn out to be. A great friend and defender of Polish English writer Gilbert Chesterton once wrote, almost 100 years ago, because in 1922, the following words, I quote: My instinctive sympathy for Poland was born under the influence of constant accusations against her and, I may say, I made myself a court of Poland on the basis of her enemies. I have come to the unfailing conclusion that the enemies of Poland are almost always enemies of long - suffering and valor. Every time I met an individual with a slave soul practicing usury and a cult of terror, meddling in the swamp of materialistic politics, I discovered so many times in this individual, alongside the above properties, a passionate hatred for Poland. I learned to judge it on the basis of these hateful courts, and this method proved to be reliable. So much for Gilbert Chesterton almost 100 years ago. Chesterton points out that the Polish case has always powerful in the world of enemies, and that is why it must be defended. Chesterton points out that the values that constitute the center of Polishness are generosity and valor. The strengthening of Polish citizens, training of collective character, community education focused on a particular attachment to the issue of freedom and solidarity, heroism and nobility is a special task for everyone who loves his homeland. This is how we will strengthen and build our identity on a strong foundation and move it into future generations, so that in the future great people of traditional European culture, as in the past, almost 100 years ago Gilbert Chesterton, will not cease to be fascinated by the personality and character of Poles, so that all citizens of our homeland, all scattered around the world Poles can unite around common values and common goals, know the tradition, so that Polish creators have the opportunity to present their art, so that the debate on important matters for the common good takes place without obstacles. Following this lead, indicated by Chesterton, we come to the first and most important, if not at all the only reason why, finally after 27 years, we can present in the Seym a historical draft law on national media. Why hasn't there been a bill like this so far? Why did it take so long for it to be passed? Why is its adoption a sacred duty of Polish patriots? Today, social media, especially social media owned by the nation, play an unimaginably great role in building a national and national community, constitute a fundamental and irreplaceable source of light radiating to other countries and nations, guaranteeing national sovereignty. This is an additional socially strong border of security for the freedom of all of us. Polish Television, Polish Radio, 17 regional radio stations of Polish Radio, finally Polish Press Agency, together with 20 institutions, according to our project they create a consistent and stable media system with a widely defined mission. For the first time in the definition of national media missions, we have presented the recording of many fundamental obligations building up the strength of the nation and the state. I quote the proposed article. 3 (1) (a) 2 Laws: The public mission of national radio and television institutions is to acquire and disseminate reliable information from Poland and abroad, to cultivate national traditions and values of patriotic and humanities, to contribute to meeting the spiritual needs of listeners and viewers, to raise and satisfy their comprehensive interests, to disseminate the achievements of Polish and world science and artistic creativity, to promote various forms of civic activity, to facilitate access to objective information and to create conditions for a pluralistic debate on public matters - by offering the public and its various parts of diverse radio and television programmes and other information services, publication, culture, education, sport and entertainment with the principles of impartiality, pluralism, independence and high quality. In addition, in the article. 4 of the proposed law we prejudice that in their messages the institutions of national media are to take care of the culture of Polish language, to maintain high, professional and ethical standards of journalism and to ensure the quality of communication in terms of content and technology. These institutions will, in accordance with the law, respect the Christian system of values, taking as the basis the universal principles of ethics. Other tasks related to the performance of the public service mission have also been written down in detail. And so, firstly, obtaining and disseminating reliable information from Poland and abroad, secondly, strengthening the national community and strengthening responsibility for the common good, thirdly, enriching historical awareness and countering the distortion of the image of Poland's history, which I consider to be a particularly important task of national media. The dissemination of knowledge about Poland abroad, the reliable demonstration of the diversity of events and phenomena in Poland and abroad, the promotion of the free development of citizens' views and the formation of public opinion, the opportunity for citizens and their organisations to participate in public life by presenting diverse views and positions and exercising the right to control and social criticism, supporting citizens in the exercise of the right to public information, demonstrating the value of family life and promoting family life, contributing to the comprehensive development of the young generation and the protection of children and young people from demoralisation, serving the development of science, education and culture, with particular regard to Polish intellectual and artistic achievements, including support of native creation, dissemination of knowledge about Polish language, documentation of radio and television works and events of major importance in Poland's history, the archives of institutions being their property - this is a very important statement - and meeting the needs of Polish and Poles abroad in terms of access to information about Poland and ties with their homeland. Special missionary tasks will also include taking into account the information and cultural needs of national and ethnic minorities living in Poland, as well as taking into account the special needs of people with disabilities. The list of national media tasks recorded will also include: shaping health-promoting attitudes, promoting environmental awareness, promoting sport, promoting attitudes and initiatives to combat social pathologies, promoting media literacy, promoting professional and ethical standards in the media and the qualifications of people employed in them, cooperating with state and local authorities, the Catholic Church, other churches and religious unions, public benefit organisations and organisations and institutions, including those active among Poles and Poles abroad, for the common good and good of people. The Act guarantees editorial independence of national media institutions. Their tasks will be formulated in the financial and programme plans adopted and evaluated respectively by the National Media Council and having a broad civic representation of the social programme councils, because socialisation and separation of new institutions of national media from current political influences and from executive authority is one of the pillars of the present law. The supervising and appointing national media managers will have a mandatory representative of the largest opposition club in their group. Its term of office will last for six years without the possibility of shortening it, which will provide an additional guarantee of protection against violent political change. According to the system designed in a separate act, financing such an extensive and necessary mission, which will be carried out by various programs and films, historical series, animations for children, theatres and sports broadcasts, intervention reports, interviews and portraits of outstanding forms of our culture, popularization of science, guidance, amenities for older people, presentation of positive models of education for children, strengthening local patriotism by radical improvement of the editorial and financial situation of regional centres in all voivodeships and radio services in a large number of old voivodeships and district cities, is the financing, which is to be made with a minimum of PLN 2 billion, is to be carried out by the National Media Fund, which will highlight the co-ownership of all citizens towards national media. This bond will be a civil bond and a bond based on the responsibility of journalists and media managers before a nation paying a contribution, not against individual political parties or gracious parties - current or future - the finance minister. Everyone involved in media funding will have the full right to expect good use of their money to carry out a broad but very specific mission. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the long-awaited great renewal of public media, national media in our country, described in the bill presented, will, of course, be subject to a thorough public debate in the course of the Parliament's work. All good solutions, improving our proposal, have a chance to be taken into account. We want Poland's Television, Polish Radio, Polish Radio stations and regional centres in each voivodeship city of our homeland and the Polish Press Agency to be recognized by Poles as their protected pupil of the eye property, guaranteeing their freedom and safe future, built around the unifying values that our friend Gilbert Chesterton described as bravery and nobility. Thanks to this law, in which I deeply believe, the good name of Poland will not only be better protected, but will also become the object of pride of every citizen of our homeland and every Pole in the world and an effective tool to connect us with new tried friends. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u319	Thank you very much, Member. And I will ask Mr Marek Suski to speak and present the justification for the draft law on printing 443. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I have the honour to present the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice Act on audiovisual contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that for many years Poland has been discussing how to finance public media, how to finance them, how to operate, how to account, and what is in the programme. And for many years as an environment referring to the fact that public media are a value, one of the pillars of statehood, we have said that it is important to ensure that public media must have a programme which is a positive programme, shaping patriotic, social, civic attitudes; this is what the previous speaker has said. But we also talked about the fact that the state must support this kind of mission through a contribution that will be a contribution valid for all citizens, not just for a group of responsible citizens who have paid their previous subscription. Unfortunately, most citizens did not pay this subscription. The level of payment of the subscription fell dramatically after a politician appeared in the Polish political space, who called this contribution a racket and said that it was a scandal that such a racket existed, and that immediately after it came to power this racket would end. And what happened when that politician came to power? Well, eight years of his formation... He himself was prime minister for nearly seven years and did not terminate the subscription. Moreover, when he encouraged not to pay a radio-television subscription, the Poles who listened met with severe punishment. Turns out that's what the bailiff was downloading. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there has come a moment where we say that this form of subscription is indeed an archaic form. Here we agree with the former Prime Minister, but we do not agree with the fact that it is necessary to completely eliminate the financing of this by the citizens. But it has to be a common contribution, it has to be a fair contribution, it has to be a small contribution, so it's a poor contribution, but it's quite commonly paid. There was a discussion on how to implement this in practice, because the voluntary payment of the radio-television subscription proved ineffective, and to a large extent because of this policy, which I have already quoted here. Well, what to do when citizens do not pay voluntarily, they are encouraged not to pay, but at the same time require some kind of effort: writing, writing, sending transfers, etc.? In many countries, as well as now in this proposal, a simple mechanism has been adopted: electricity consumers who have meters - in the 21st century it is difficult to imagine that there are households in which neither radio nor television - pay such a flat rate, an audiovisual contribution simply on the bill. It is uncursed, easy to download, inexpensive, and at the same time thanks to the fact that it will be a common contribution, it can be much smaller. The project, which we are submitting to the High House, proposes a contribution of PLN 15 per meter. But we can think about it. We will also lean on opposition and citizens' arguments. Perhaps we can find a way to power public media, while minimising the burden for citizens as much as possible. Currently, the contribution proposed in this bill is 1/3 lower than the existing subscription, and for all those who honestly supported public media in Poland, this will be a decisive reduction. We understand that those who have avoided paying, for various reasons, may be dissatisfied, because now it will be harder for them to avoid paying this contribution, but for honest citizens who feel obliged to pay this contribution, it will be a reduction in costs. For those who, in order not to use a word that could be considered unelegant, avoided paying, so to put it, it will indeed be an increase. But since it's not a high contribution, I don't think it's going to be very severe. Although in this law we have also foreseen, especially for those who are in difficulty and for seniors - as in the previous period, for the existing subscription fee - exemptions. We want the exemption to apply to seniors after 75 years of age, so that it also applies to various units subordinate to local governments, so that it is simply that those who are in a difficult situation also have the opportunity to be exempted from this obligation, i.e. to relieve them of their financial difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this project - which is a proposal that we will probably discuss extensively in the committee, which was widely commented on, criticized, mainly by the opposition - will probably be subject to modifications, because that's what the debate in the Sejm is for. Although I am a little worried, because when the media went through a wave of criticism of our project, there were very many willing and critical people, and when the debate comes here, in Parliament, where we can talk about changes in this project, the room is actually empty. As far as the opposition is concerned, all I can see is the Members of the Service who will follow me... [[Where's PiS?]] ...and a few people who signed up for the questions. This is probably the best proof that this project isn't so bad that it's not some kind of misfortune... [[Scandalous.]] ...which brings the Law and Justice to Poles, as some of the opposition claim, it is only a good project, introducing a modern audiovisual contribution, which will at the same time feed public media, which we assume will increase the funding of public media, which will make it possible to have more missionary programs... [[You can see this mission. Nobody's watching this.]] ...and at the same time it will be possible to reduce the number of advertisements on television and public radios, which will also increase the quality of the program. So, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, we encourage a fair and factual debate on these projects, a departure from criticism. At the same time, I would like to remind you that for 8 years these most fierce critics who say that this should be eliminated or that this is a bad solution when they were seeking power, said that the subscription fee was an archaic racket, for 8 years of this archaic racket did not terminate, and today, when Law and Justice propose to modernise this contribution and lower its amount for citizens, they are very fierce critics of this form, one can say, the implementation of their programme, namely the elimination of the broadcasting subscription and the replacement of it with a low audiovisual fee. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, this fee will be directed to a special fund, to an account that will serve public media, will be separated from the state budget, so it will not be what our opponents are claiming, that it will be some form of government interference, because this contribution will be unrelated to the state budget, so it will be independent and guarantee the independence and stability of public media. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to present and submit this proposal to the High House. I'm counting on the points. We are open to various kinds of amendments, because even during this debate I have heard about some interesting ideas that could make the bill better in implementation. This is the kind of cooperation I look forward to, welcome and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to present the justification for the draft from print No 444.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For years, the public debate has raised the need for changes in the regulation of public media. A comprehensive reform is expected to improve the functioning of public radio and television to serve the real needs and interests of society. The government coalition has announced this many times. We did not see, although the National Radio and Television Council sent to the Ministry of Culture analysis and assumptions proposed for laws. The National Council assessed that in recent years two phenomena are characteristic for the Polish media market: firstly, oligopolization and capital concentration, secondly, tabloidisation, i.e. the process of transforming almost all the content of the media so as to fulfil the entertainment function, which limits their information function and very narrows the picture of public life and involves abandoning serious analysis and discussion and thus deprives the recipient of the possibility of understanding the phenomena. A counterweight to these processes can and should be strong public media, non-commercial and high-quality information and programme-oriented, such as integrate rather than disintegrate society, promote full representation of all important social forces and fair participation in public life. In Poland today we are at a historic moment where we have the opportunity to build good solutions for public media, which will enable us to achieve this goal. Reform is needed here, which will lead to a stable legal environment and transparent procedures. It's a challenge. At the beginning of the 19th century, President John Adams wrote: If there is ever going to be an improvement in the fate of humanity, philosophers, theologians, legislators, politicians and moralists will see that the most difficult and most important problem that they will have to solve is the creation of appropriate legislation regulating the functioning of the press. Today, of course, not just the press. It should also be remembered that public media cannot be debated in isolation from the context in which they operate. It is important to remember that the crisis of public media in Poland led to the fact that, firstly, many politicians ceased to care about public media, it can be said that politicians who ruled Poland after 2008 did, unfortunately effectively, a real attack on public radio and television, realizing the goal of their maximum weakening, as declared by Donald Tusk, because just as the governments of the PO-PSL rolled up the state, unfortunately the media, and secondly, the social awareness of the particular role of public media for the functioning of the state, weakened effectively by commercial media and these politicians, followed by a lack of concept and inconsistencies of media policy of the Third Republic. At the same time, it is not possible to demand from the public media a missionary program and not to provide financial conditions that would make the public broadcaster independent of commercial pressures. And the public media were brought to commercialize. This was decided in particular by the funding structure that makes the programme dependent on advertising revenues and forces us to take into account the interests of advertisers - who pays, who requires it - it is obvious. Public television revenues are more or less 70% in proportion commercial funds up to twenty-several percent of public funds. This phenomenon on a European scale, in other countries these proportions are basically the opposite. This results in the likeness of public media strategy to advertising tactics consisting in maintaining as many viewers as possible at all times. In this way, programmes recorded only for certain groups of society are excluded, and such programmes are to be guaranteed by public media. This is due, among other things, to the fact that in Poland already only - as has already been said - 8% all households pay a subscription fee on time. Almost half of households have not registered their receivers and remain outside the records and the possibility of effective debt recovery. In its judgment of 9 September 2004, the Constitutional Tribunal held that the licence fee as a public tribute must comply with the principles of universality, justice and equality resulting from the Constitution. So how far away we are from these constitutional values and somehow the concern for the implementation of the judgments of the Tribunal and for the observance of constitutional principles in this case has not been revealed. The second point is the form of organizational law, which is the form of commercial law company, which makes public media on the basis of financial results and not the programme. There is no effective way to enforce programme tasks and, consequently, the rules setting out the public mission are to a large extent legal fiction. This also causes unnecessary complexity of the management system. At the same time, the form of a public limited liability company allows to hide behind the screen the autonomy of the company or corporate secrecy particular games of interests of the persons forming part of the company's bodies and supporting their interests. As a consequence, public broadcasters with internally contradictory purposes of those declared and those actual ones lose public acceptance, lose their justification for their existence, whose purpose is a kind of service, i.e. Public mission. And what did we have instead of serving Poland and Poles? A propaganda tool. The public mission replaced serving the interests of power. The scope of personal and programme changes in public media by the PO-PSL coalition has deepened the imbalance in access to public media of various social groups. Almost everything that had right or conservative connotations disappeared from public television. As a result, there has been an unprecedented restriction on freedom of speech and freedom of public debate. A multimillion-dollar auditorium with a conservative view was deprived of its programme offer and the public had access to a full spectrum of views. This was not in line with the constitutional principles of equality vis-à-vis the law and free access to information. However, today's constitutional defenders have not been noticed here either. A few more examples: turning from Poles after 10 April 2010 and participating in building the Smoleńsk lie, promoting the historical policy of Germany by TVP. Our mothers, our fathers, the slandering soldiers of the Home Army and the lack of space on the air for creating Polish historical policy, co-financing by TVP of anti-Polish films, such as Can Poles be required to pay for defaming themselves? It is also worth recalling a very characteristic event when the Wrocław court sentenced the arrests and fines of persons blamed for disturbing the lecture of the Major. Zygmunt Bauman at the University of Wrocław. TVP's information programs manipulated the judgment that will be written in the history of the disgrace of the Polish justice system. In a supposed-free country, he punishes himself for shouting: Once with a sickle, once with a hammer a red rabble and inscriptions on his shirts: Away with the commune. And characteristic - TVP did not inform what was going on in the protest, because then we would have to tell the truth about Bauman. Although Bauman was an officer of the CWB, the criminal organization of the criminal system, the murderer of our heroes was presented only as a known professor in the world. We have also had many other examples of public media attacking the vital values of society. The peak of the misappropriation of his mission was that TVP favored one candidate during the presidential election and turned into the electoral staff of one party in the parliamentary elections. In this way the principle of worldview pluralism and impartiality was broken, which demonstrated the total submission of TVP to the then power camp, the defenders of democracy at that time was not visible either. Is it surprising, then, that public awareness has decreased on the specific role of public media in the functioning of the state? The media must be independent to be credible. This independence is significantly influenced by the way in which it is managed and financed. We therefore submit to the High House a draft law on national media, which aims to establish a system of national media. In order for these media to create a non-commercial space for culture and public conversation, they must be built on different principles, so they will be freed from the ballast form of a public limited liability company and converted into state legal entities managed on a one-man basis by directors and acting under the supervision of the National Media Council. The proposed law emphasizes the public mission of national radio and television institutions more strongly than the existing legislation so far, e.g. activities for the national community and the common good, historical awareness and knowledge of Poland abroad or the comprehensive development of the young generation and the common good and human good. Among the legal instruments aimed at guaranteeing the independence of public media, particular attention is paid to the method of financing. Without sufficient, secure and transparent funding, there is no independent public media. The financing reform is introduced by the draft Act on audiovisual contribution. There is a close correlation between the National Media Act and the Audiovisual Contribution Act. We will base the process of public media reform on their implementation, which will include the Polish Press Agency in addition to radio and television. The introduction of these two laws requires the amendment of a number of provisions in force, sometimes amendments to one law involve both the National Media Act and the Audio-Audio-Share Act. Also some transitional and adaptation provisions, e.g. concerning the first funding period of the National Media Fund, they are placed at the interface between the matter of both laws. This justifies the inclusion of provisions introducing both laws in a single separate legal act. The legislative objective of these proposals is, as I have already said, to rebuild the importance of public media, to improve organisational structures and functioning, and to strongly strengthen finance. The most important thing for the national media itself will be to regain the public's approval. Of course, the fundamental issue is the independence and professionalism of journalists and their understanding of the service. There are different levels of protection of the independence of the media, but as always many depend on people. Radiophony and television will be independent in Poland if they wish and independent people will create them if they are determined to serve the public interest. The essence of these changes is expressed in the name: national media, which is to remind that they are to be media, which are not for corporations, for one or another, but for the whole nation. That is the purpose of our project - to give public media to Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u323	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that it would hear 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the joint discussion on these items. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Joann Lichock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[The most objective journalist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Seym! The draft media laws presented are an opportunity for the most serious public media reform after 1989. It's not just the possibility of pulling public media from the party nominates, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Because it's from poverty that can be done without such a profound change. [[Jacek Kurski.]] This reform is an opportunity to liberate public media from the way they think, which has so far paralyzed their development, to believe that Polish Television and Polish Radio are tools of power, that they are institutions that serve the interests of specific parties, that they are also institutions that serve the interests of different lobbies. This reform has a chance to change this state of affairs. On public television they will no longer be able to prey on politicians or various groups of interests. [[Just the PiS.]] This change, a good media change, will give public media to Poles. [[Just the PiS.]] In a few minutes, there will be a lot of horrible words in this room that this is an attempt on freedom, a war on democracy, the introduction of authoritarianism, a lot of stupidity. We will witness a great show of hypocrisy. It will be the voice of politicians who, as long as they ruled, did everything to limit freedom of speech, freedom to criticize their power. Their nominees in Polish Television and Polish Radio, I will remind you that the coalition of PO-PSL-SLD was ruled, they punishedly carried out propaganda tasks of power and if any journalist or publicist did not do it, he was fired. Apart from the Jan Pospieszalski programme, there were no exceptions in this respect. This mechanism of absolute obedience to the ruling team was described well by Jacek Rakowiecki, spokesperson of Polish Television from the time when the Platform and PSL ruled it. We weren't liars, we were idiots. Rakowiecki confesses: "Krytyka PO was unacceptable in our environment. If someone did this, he was an enemy - whether it was substantive or not. That was the time, a few months ago. Besides, you don't need to look for information about the character of the crew that until recently ruled, and which now, here, is about to scream about freedom of speech. We've got news from the last few days. It has just been revealed the tapes from the talks of the policy of the PO, the Member and the spokesman of the government of Donald Tusk Paweł Grasie, which show that this party has done intensive and unfortunately effective procedures, including those of chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, to name the editor-in-chief of the largest newspaper in Poland. The gentlemen of the Platform have come to the conclusion that they do not like the criticism of the PO and Donald Tusk himself. The chief's been replaced. This is not the only example - earlier the same politician, spokesperson of the government, at the dumpster in the Warsaw neighborhood, determined the exchange of editor-in-chief of another newspaper. From this talker it once sounded: You know nothing about freedom of speech. You have no shame. This draft of changes in public media goes completely across the way that the governments have presented so far. It's not about changing leadership, it's not about redirecting propaganda. We must rebuild the status of public media, but also rebuild the debate, because we are talking about television and radio as a common good, which is intended to serve all Poles, to serve the community. Therefore, the change in the very definition of these media. Not the public media, because you're the state, that's the term, you've compromised. It is possible to say after John Krzysztof Kelus: "Because somebody has defiled words... maybe someday, they will become new meanings. So we create national media. For the first time in the history of public media They will become completely independent of the government in a personal and financial sense. It is not expected to form the media authorities, but also to set the amounts to be financed, any role for the government and its ministers. National media will be subordinate to the National Media Council. In the Council, a seat will be guaranteed for the representative of the opposition. Her voice on the media will therefore be heard and her representative will have an insight into every aspect of the functioning of these media. But there will also be social programming councils for national media. Today, there are politicians on the programming boards - and how, under the leadership of the Civic Platform, the leader of the programme board is a member of the Platform. [[And Mrs. Bubula and Sobeck.]] The other way of thinking for these people did not come to mind at all. [[Is Mrs. Bubula present?]] Well, according to our project, not politicians, but representatives of viewers and listeners are to sit on the programming boards. [[Jacek Kurski?]] [[And who is Jacek Kurski?]] also creative, social and trade unions organisations. The Social Programme Councils will also have a real impact on what is happening on the air - they will evaluate the implementation of the mission and they will be able to make personal requests. They will also account for the way money is spent in national media. I repeat: this project gives public media to Poles. So far, the Third Polish System, the post-communist establishment has tried to control what is happening in the main media stream. Once this law enters into force, it will irreversibly lose its monopoly. It's an opportunity for a normal debate, pluralism. There will be no censorship such as the one that forbade journalists of Polish Television to broadcast hearings or even to report on the hearing of President Bronisław Komorowski before the court on his relationship with the WSI. It's just not gonna be possible. When things are important for Poles, for their history, identity and present, they will not be ignored. Just like the colonel's funeral wasn't ignored. Zygmunt Szendzielarz.Łupaszko, a great Polish hero, whose funeral took place several tens of thousands of Poles - TVP was the only station that broadcasted this important event. Just as the new Polish Television authorities did not ignore the possibility of obtaining rights to broadcast matches of our football team in subsequent European and global competitions. Yes, national media will serve Poles and will be under their control. The Law and Justice Club supports the referral of draft laws to further work in committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u325	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! In order for national media to function well, it is necessary to secure their adequate funding. That is why we are proposing an audiovisual contribution law. The biggest deficiency of the subscription law so far, the subscription law, was that this regulation did not ensure the universality of the levy collection and allowed for a huge gap between the normative state and the facts. First of all, there is no reliable register of operators obliged to charge or receivers subject to registration. The Act requires receiver holders to register them in Polish Post offices, but does not introduce effective instruments for enforcing this obligation. While it provides for high fines for not registering a receiver, it is not easy to disclose such a problem and usually depends only on the case. According to the Polish Post as of 31 January 2016, the number of registered subscribers in Poland is 6900 thousand, of which more than half are subscribers who are legally exempt from fees. He's only paying 3,400 grand right now. family holdings, households and 218 000. companies. As the National Radio and Television Council has already stated in 2014, only 8% all households pay a subscription fee on time. I'd like to make a short story. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of subscription and public media funding has been going on for a number of years. I would like to recall the statements of the politicians of the Civic Platform in 2006 and in 2007 especially when Mr Donald Tusk and Mr Chlebowski, President of the parliamentary club, informed the public at press conferences that when the Platform comes to power, all tributes and rackets will be abolished. What did such irresponsible words of politicians cause? Ano caused the collapse of subscription influences, which caused the public media, especially Polish Radio, to stand on the brink of bankruptcy. When in 2005 the subscription revenue amounted to PLN 892 million, in 2006 and PLN 888 million, in 2008 and in 2009 to PLN 626 million, in 2010 to PLN 526 million and in 2011 to PLN 462 million. The Civic Platform with the Polish People's Party did nothing to save public media. Only since 2013, 2012 licence receipts have started to increase. The audiovisual contribution, which we propose in the Act on audiovisual contribution, will be a kind of public tribute, flat-rate, and practically everyone who has proverbial energy meters will have to bear it. The contribution will be a universal fee and the execution of this contribution will only be possible in an administrative manner. It is the electricity distributors who will be obliged to collect contributions from the final customer and to pay them to the tax authority in due time. A special account will be created at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which will be powered by these funds. It will be the Public Media Fund. All the funds received by way of contributions, apart from, of course, the remuneration of the bills, will be charged to that same account. The consequence of these provisions and these changes, the introduction of an audiovisual contribution, is to increase the public media budget for the public service mission, which in turn should be translated into a reduction in advertising and thus de-commercialisation of public media and, above all, a higher quality of programmes. And an important point at the end, a lot of contradictions appear in the media space in the last few days with regard to the layoffs. I would like to assure you from this speaker that the exemptions so far will be maintained. Older people will benefit from dismissals, and those who are in material difficulties will benefit from disability or families in which they are disabled will also benefit those who are entitled to receive education for the first child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u327	Thank you very much, sir. I ask Mr Jack the World, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The provisions introducing the National Media Act and the Audiovisual Contribution Act 444 complement the package of laws for a major reform of public media. First of all, I would like to declare that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the referral of all these projects to further work. The purpose of this third law is to implement the rules on national media, the audiovisual contribution. This law regulates the process of transformation in financial and organisational aspects, including inter alia. issues related to subscription fee obligations existing in 2016 Theoretically, these transformations could be introduced by transitional provisions, but the matter of this whole great reform of public media is so complicated that the formula of a separate introductory law seems obvious and much better. The advantage of this project is the overall regulation of the implementation of institutional regulations, another advantage is the comprehensive regulation of obligations arising during the period of validity of the current law, in particular I am thinking about the limitation period of claims. This will be addressed by millions of citizens who, unfortunately, have listened to the leading policy of the Civic Platform and have put themselves at risk of very strong steps to recover their debts through execution. Ladies and gentlemen, changing the nature of public media is a difficult operation, because it cannot interfere with the work of public television, Polish Radio, as well as the Polish Press Agency. This is important, because this year we will have great events: World Youth Days, the visit of Pope Francis, the NATO summit in Warsaw, the Euro game in which our staff will participate, as well as the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro . Of course, there will be a normal life going on all the time, and public media must accompany it. Here it is worth noting that yesterday the negotiations ended, thanks to which public television will show 11 Euro matches, including all with our representation and those matches that will decide on medals. Time is running out, so, in conclusion, the introductory act will have a positive impact on [[♪ The bell ♪]] The transparency of the laws introduced, i.e. the national media and the audiovisual contribution, will greatly facilitate the application of legal standards in practice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u329	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to respond to these fervent calls for a very serious debate to take place here, but perhaps the conditions do not allow a serious debate to take place here. The three projects you call yourselves, the applicants call revolutionary, entered the Sejm last Thursday, and today we have our first reading. I have not heard of any discussed here in the House of the Sejm - so that we can participate in this, also listen - discussions, debates, consultations. Ba, I'm meeting with the media community or single creators, and they're still waiting for some kind of consultation. I don't know if you'll be able to - because I don't know what the mode of work is - meet with anyone and listen to anyone. I am very grateful for so many words of appreciation to the former Prime Minister, the former chairman of my group. There was no voice here not to mention how this man, I don't know, moved the sun, and stopped the earth, or the other way around, something said and happened. [[But it didn't happen.]] Well, I want to remind you because I was very moved, but not enough to lose my memory that in 2005 you completely devastated the National Radio and Television Council, you interrupted its term, the constitutional body. In two days, calling in texts, which was not so fashionable at the time, you passed a bill that you threw away the rules of calling members of the national council, some kind of cadence, representativeness, and you established a national 5-person council composed of your politicians. In 2006, audiences and listeners, in response to what you did and what they saw and heard, stopped paying their subscription. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] And maybe once and for all, maybe once... I know that here in this Chamber, the truth is told only by Mrs Lichocka... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Bravo, bravo!]] ...but if you don't mind, I'll tell you what happened from time to time. [[Here's all the radio and television data.]] [[Don't bother the Member.]] But Mr, Mr, I can read, I have been reading since I was four years old. [[I can still get my glasses.]] Got it. [[You're being rude.]] So, on the way back...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u331	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u332	...to the subject. The law of the state - and I will immediately warn my colleagues here - at this moment, at this stage still so procedated is suitable for rejection at first reading and the Civic Platform club makes such a request. [[Applause]] I'm saying this because then it's gonna be too late. This is the proposal we are making because - I will not talk about freedom of speech or democracy, although Mrs Lichocka was sure that I would talk about it - words such as democracy, Europe and Europe are words... [[Voice from the room: PiS-wipe.]] ...forbidden in this bill. And from the mission description, and from the mission, those words came out. Yes, there are many other beautiful words, and the media themselves are called national. I understand that they are called nationals to kneel before them, because there is no other justification for such a change. But let's leave this mission and these tasks, there might be some other time, someplace else to talk about it. You're so worried that politicians had an impact on the media. Since 2006, after your assassination on the national council, by the end of 2010, politicians who were politicians of the coalitions of that time really had an impact on the media, and the effects were what they were. That's what we saw. There's nothing to talk about it. But here at the moment, you are creating a competitive body against the national council, which largely duplicates the national council, which restricts the national council, which is called the National Media Council. They're calling this council of the Sejm, the Senate and the President. As it happens, this advice will be set up at the moment by PiS, PiS and PiS, because I don't see any other layout. [[Six years old.]] You're bragging that one place is for a representative, a person designated by the biggest opposition club. I don't know if anyone's gonna go for this kind of fun to be a goat flower. Plus, in order to get this one place, you have to report three candidates. [[It's like a beauty pageant.]] It's very elegant and it's so open to the opposition. Really, I'm touched again. I'm about to start crying. The National Media Council - different people cannot be part of it, but nothing is written that Members cannot be part of it, so I am very interested in who will contribute to it. The chairman of this council is appointed by the Marshal of the Sejm, so the elected or elected Marshal of Kuchciński will hold public media for 6 years, because this President is irresistible unless he resigns. Other members of the council can be called off if, for example, they steal something or kill someone, but I understand that the chairman is not involved, because it is clearly written that he can only be called off if he resigns. [[Voice from the room: You have to read the project.]] And this National Media Council is something... I think some of the former sentiments of the authors of this law have spoken here, because it's actually nothing more than Radiokomitet, except it still has a Polish Press Agency under it. So we have, everything's right, the press company, because there's PAP, radio and TV, but there's no movement, but it's a little RSW Press-Book-Ruch. [[Voice from the room: You didn't understand much about this project.]] And we've got a radio committee headed by this institution. [[But it's not a PRL.]] And that's all... Well, that's what we say, PRL PiS, not encore. [[On the contrary.]] [[There were no independent media in the Polish People's Republic.]] [[Well, there isn't now either.]] And... wait a minute...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u333	But I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u334	Really, ladies and gentlemen. So, as I said, in this form these laws are not laws that we are able to support. And with this optimistic accent, because I hope that the majority in this Chamber will do so, I will end my voice by asking my fellow Members to supplement their speech. You're welcome, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u335	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Wojciech the King, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Taking into account the manner in which the Law and Justice of the Polish State were held, it is simply necessary to fear this law. [[Ha!]] Public, civic media are becoming a result of good national change, which is really government, party and fully available. Reform by the PIS public media You can sum it up so that the fox wants to reform in the henhouse. [[He's already done it.]] Law and Justice is once again violating standards, pushing the law through the knee, on which this law was previously written - without consulting, without talking, and above all without talking to creative environments. National media - that sounds like a bad dream. Because it's national, which means whose... [[Nation.]] ...when it's not public anymore? Law and Justice thinks winning an election justifies everything. Today we hear about social meetings of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, judges of the Supreme Court are dudes, sentences are opinions. Righteousness and Justice thinks: a nation is us. So let's not be illusioned that national media is just PiS media. [[Applause]] The question should also be asked whether after public media There's no time for private media. We have heard many times from PiS politicians that private media is an industry of contempt and a front against the PiS. I have no doubt that a good change will knock on them. The National Media Act pushes the National Radio and Television Council, an institution which is attached to the Constitution into the margin. The PiS limits her role. The media council will compete with the National Radio and Television Council. The Act will also allow the verification of employees and probably expel all those who disagree with a good change. And so with journalists they were only engaged in martial law. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Given the above, the audiovisual fee is nothing more than a racket that any family will pay. The audiovisual fee is a national contribution to the propaganda of PiS, it's a tax, let's not be afraid to use that word, propaganda-party, because the racket will pay everyone whether they want to watch TV or not. Even if they can't afford a TV, they're gonna have to pay this fee, some of them, because they're gonna have to pay for a freestanding garage or a gazebo on the lot too. [[They can't afford the TV.]] Ladies and gentlemen, who will hold this huge budget in hand, over PLN 2 billion? Jacek Kurski, author of the words: the dark people will buy it. Thus, the Law and Justice will receive more than 2 billion from citizens for propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Not good, not grammatical, and not in line with the facts.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u337	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Kaminski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna talk about an assassination attempt on democracy, an assassination attempt on freedom. This is really what all of Poland and unfortunately the whole world are talking about today. [[You guys are really trying to do this.]] I'll tell you what's the essence of this bombing you're doing. The essence of this assassination is the assassination of the truth. [[Voice from the room: What about the Martians?]] [[What about Antarctica?]] You need the media to lie because you fear the truth the most. [[Applause]] because the truth is something you don't want to get to the Poles. And you think that national media - defiling this national word, sacred to many - that these media stand... standing in service... [[Oh, oh, there's even tongue in it, 'cause I don't want to talk that nonsense.]] ...one political party, they'll make the Poles water out of their brains. They won't. They won't make water out of the brain for Poles, because today is a really big pluralism. There's access to different media. And if today from this tribune I heard about how terrible television was public television for the last eight years, I ask myself why this Catholic nation did not throw itself at the receivers and watch TV Trwam and could watch. [[He couldn't.]] Somehow strangely, Television Trwam does not have great ratings, as today the ratings lose... [[He couldn't watch.]] ...national television directed by party activist Jack Kurski. If Jacek Kurski is to you a symbol of a man who does not divide the nation... [[Who's talking?]] ...this is a joke, not a debate. I want to tell you that if you want to talk about real change today... [[Have a drink.]] ...this unfortunately reminds me of this phrase, because you keep talking about a good change, which differs socialism from democratic socialism, because that's what it was called in communist times. I'm gonna do it again and say, "What's the difference between normal change and... [[Have a drink.]] ...from your good change? The difference between a chair and an electric chair. [[Applause]] [[Old, well-played...]] And unfortunately, this joke illustrates very well what you want to do. Because if you're talking about sharing Poles... You say that television should not divide Poles, and your media spit on their political opponents. It's for your media, and I'm gonna end it with words... [[I think you've had a bit of something to drink, sir, because your speech is like a fist to your nose.]] [[Voice from the room: Do not disturb.]] ... Antoni Słonimski from his poem Two homelands. Yes, and those are the wise words that came out in the '30s when fascism was on the doorstep. Antoni Słonimski wrote: In your homeland God does not lower himself to strangers in faith. In my homeland, he takes everyone into the arms of the cross. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: Oh, oh!]] [[Stories like that to such crap is a bit much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u339	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So-called. a large media law, announced many months ago, was to be discussed, debated, numerous consultations with various creative or academic, journalistic environments, while at the moment I am listening to this debate, I wonder if it is not really good that this debate was not, because as usual we have the Polish-Polish War, the PiS and the Platform, and we are not really leaning on the bill, but you are all arguing with each other. [[No one in the Member's capacity to speak substantively is prohibited.]] On the merits of the matter, I welcome the announcements on the willingness to debate because we intend to make a request for a public hearing. We have been asked by various creative communities to make such a proposal in committee, so I hope that the public hearing will take place. As regards the various aspects that I would like to address, first of all, I would like to talk about the National Media Council, which will be set up for a six-year term. This will ensure a certain continuation of propaganda to the Law and Justice, because there is absolutely no depoliticisation of the media in this bill. National Media Council e.g. it will oversee the activities of this institution in terms of public service, it will also set up social programming councils, so it is difficult to say that social programming councils will actually have any power. When it comes to how the council will work in practice, it will simply dictate what the media is going to show, who will sit on the positions in question, so it is the appearance of pluralism as it was supposed to be, and in fact this one member of the opposition council will not actually have a function there, will not have an impact on the functioning of the council at all. So a 6-year term on the one hand guarantees some stability in such political turmoil, and on the other hand it is to maintain its position in national media as much as possible. With regard to social programming councils, this is an illusion of admission to the media of some broad spectrum of people independent of political agreements, because it is the political media council that will create these social programming councils. As for the National Radio and Television Council - it is a constitutional body. You all defend the constitution, you don't know what, because we've actually had a dispute over the last few months, which has shown that the constitution doesn't work, but we're creating another council that will duplicate the National Radio and Television Council. Then why maintain the National Radio and Television Council? After all, she will only bring costs, while her work will be illusory. As regards the presentation of positions, the pluralism that is to be in the media, you have taken into account only political parties, and sometimes there is such a phenomenon that there is a group which is not a political party, yet is in the Sejm because it has been chosen by citizens. Academic backgrounds, entrepreneurs were also not taken into account. I do not understand why entrepreneurs would mean less than political parties, e.g. The Polish Pirate Party or other works that operate in Poland. So as far as this political body is concerned, we are creating more advice, but there is no depoliticisation. As far as the audiovisual contribution is concerned, older people, people with disabilities have indeed been taken into account, while each meter will mark the point of collection from which 15 PLN will be collected. And what happens when someone has three apartments, even in one block? Every apartment will have to pay an audiovisual contribution. Unfortunately, there is no consultation, because it is a parliamentary project, not a government project, there is no need to present the effects of the law and - to conclude - there is no depoliticisation. Don't make fun of Mrs. Lichocka here, because this politicisation is very visible at the moment. [[I'm quiet.]] Personally speaking of the President, speaking in a positive way, I was tagged with Mr. Schetin and only learned about it when people started to write about it negatively on Twitter. They called the TV right away, unfortunately, there was no tape anymore, there was no recording, and it wasn't easy to find out what I said, and what was really played on that belt. [[It's like the Seym.]] So we are determined to put a lot of work into these laws, without a doubt they require this work, because instead of depoliticating, we actually have parataxes. [[Applause]] [[We're ahead of the reform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Piotr Liroy-Marc, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Package The three media laws presented to us today by the Members of the PiS have been awaited for a long time. I am glad that he was in the Sejm at this point in time, before the end of the small novel ending in June. This is a really good sign. It is a legislative initiative that is so important for culture and society as a whole. It is difficult for me to understand that it has not preceded this public debate with the environments of artists, artists, journalists, scientists of different backgrounds, including media experts. I heard, of course, that the representatives of the ruling party on questions from journalists about the lack of consultation answer that they were, for example. Talking to SDP. [[With the Press Club, the Free Word Society.]] Yes, ma'am, the Polish Journalists' Association is very important and well-deserved... [[But the Press Club and the Free Word Society, too.]] Yeah, but I don't want to discuss it. [[Don't get into a discussion with her, say yours.]] I'll explain exactly what's going on. Everyone knows that the SDP is the back of the PiS. The members of SDP work in the PiS campaigns, include public functions on behalf of the PiS, they stand for PiS electoral lists. So PiS consulted himself. [[Applause]] [[No.]] This reminds me of the 1976 public consultation, which was an attempt to legitimise price increases. The draft of this increase was presented in the Seym by Prime Minister Jaroszewicz, announcing a survey consultation, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] to the level of the workplace, of course. In fact, these consultations were limited to trusted activists and their outcome was preconceived. [[We want a raise.]] High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! We didn't run for parody. [[Oh, no.]] Actually, it all reminds me of Maciej Zembati's song. In the Kalek Seym the consultation looked like this: In the interest of the public and for the general good after a thorough consultation up to the local level on 3 October has a decree valid in trotuars and pavements to be every second album higher. You can do that, but that's how you're gonna do a parody with the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]] Public media is the media that pursue the public interest, i.e. they act pro publico bono. [[Yes.]] If the change in the name of public media to national media is meant to mean the pursuit of national interest, then I am in favour. [[That's the way it's supposed to ……]] But if it's still supposed to be party media, there's no agreement. The public interest is a great effort to repair and strengthen the looming state that brings together the most important political, economic, social, cultural mechanisms that govern our lives, which finally enable us to take real corrective and healing action. Such media are expected by people and such media is expected by Kukiz15. [[Applause]] That is why we have a lot of questions for applicants that will be asked here today in this Chamber. There's a whole bunch of them. Besides, I'm not the only one who's gonna talk about it right now. We'll have a question marathon here for you. [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] Our position as Kukiz15 depends on the answer to these questions. And in total, more questions, and further work on committees. We want strong public media, non-governmental media, but also non-commercial media. We do not want media, which in pursuit of money from advertising fool Poles. You don't have a bill right now because... I think like I think about my business. I am actually a musician, an artist, and I represent the creators here, which is probably the most appropriate environment for today's debate. And that reminds me of a case like this. If I'm looking at this bill, it's a simple thought: your bill is a demo, like in music. In this case, a very weak demo. [[This is the first reading.]] But if the artist has such a weak demo, do you know what he's doing? He goes to people who know about it. [[Applause]] And with this demo, he can do something that resembles music and art. [[You know how to go for that demo?]] Excuse me? Do I have any practice in this? Sir, I have skills in things you don't even dream of. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You guys get on with it, I really advise you as I am, as an artist, as a Kukiz club15 and as a thinking man. [[This is the first reading.]] Yes, of course it's the first reading. You can of course proceed as always, on the basis of: tap, knock with a stick to the floor, the Sejm, the Sejm agrees. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it's without us, really without us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Writer.]] [[Beat the commune all the time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u343	Mr. Tomasz Jaskóla of the Kukiz club15 wanted to take the floor. [[Voice from the room: Microphone!]] [[Voice from the room: What's going on?]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u344	Dear Marshal! I can see that everyone already recognizes me as the socialists of believers and non-believers, and that's how I'm gonna start. You've all been ruining TV for years. It doesn't matter if it's SLD, PSL, Platform, PiS. And today we have proof of that. To be honest, as Max Kolonko rightly says, nothing should be paid and privatized at all, because there is no national media, there has been no television with a public mission before, only the television of political parties that justify the actions of governments. What guarantee do we have that these media won't be government media? None. A good change has already been shown many times. Ladies and gentlemen! How did you even get 15 zlotys? How did you calculate that? Are there any real calculations? In my opinion, no. [[This is Kukiz.15.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] About the fact that television is badly managed... [[Kukiz.15.]] Kukiz.15. That's right, see how fast this password scrolls. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[That's why 15 PLN.]] Thank you very much. Kukiz, 15, 15 gold Kukiz, 15 gold. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. I would just like to ask: How do I translate Law and Justice? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Another tax, 15%.]] [[Messenger Socialism.]] Believer. Ladies and gentlemen! Badly managed TV is among others. TVP Polonia. Well, there's a reason Max Kolonko says that a contract was signed in the nineties of a year, and we're paying some private company for it. And that's what this TV's gonna do. Will you then amend the constitution, ladies and gentlemen, because there was no willingness to amend the constitution, and cut down the National Radio and Television Council? In my opinion, this National Radio and Television Council is completely unnecessary. He's been the subject of the game for many years. Is there a National Radio and Television Council in normal countries? Of course she's not here. There's media pluralism in normal countries. And you give one place to the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! Now that it's 15 zlotys, why don't you give all the seats back to Kukiz?15 and that'll be the best way to make this TV work. [[Applause]] We're probably gonna hire Max Kolonka as president, and we're finally gonna be able to watch this. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But there's an interesting thing about this bill. The law gives us the opportunity to present what political parties have to say. And you're killing us again because we're not a political party. So there isn't enough room for us. [[Then what are you?]] And I think we're gonna go in the back door again through that 15 zloty. Then we can express the will of anyone who pays 15 zlotys of this idiotic subscription, but unfortunately political parties... Do you know what the parties are gonna be like? Leszek Bubla's party, which produces some anti-Semitic lyrics. You give them time, and you give them the greatest civic force in this Sejm. [[Applause]] She won't have time. Why? Because she's deadly dangerous. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Now let me tell you why she's deadly. 17 seconds. And you know why? Since last Thursday, you've seen what the media looks like when you manipulate public opinion. Everyone would have done it. Some kind of deal, some kind of deal. Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] For the first time in 3 years I saw news because I don't watch. A deep, populist commune. And that's what's left of the public media. [[What do you know about communion, man?]] Release the media, prohibit the payment of 15 zlotys, because some have two, three counters, five counters. Pay attention to that. You've been ruining TV for 26 years. Urban would laugh. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[I'm gonna give you a hard time. Bravo! An alliance with Dworak. I kind of like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u345	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u346	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to appreciate the truthfulness of the government majority. Last December, when we passed a law on public media take-over on crazy papers, you emphasized that in a few months you would reappear in Parliament with a comprehensive solution to the public media system. It has been a few months and please: we have a package of three laws that create a new public media system. It's just like you promised. But at this point, I would like to end the process of praising the government majority. Unfortunately, the laws that have been presented to society and the High House are scandalously weak. The National Media Act, which the Sejm is debating today, is a project that has been announced for months. In fact, already during the adoption of the so-called. a staff law, which was intended to enable the safe settlement of PiS nominees in public media, was announced a new system of media management. And here comes the project to the Sejm. According to the new political custom, the project was created in the Ministry of Culture, but suddenly it was magically declared as a parliamentary project. It is worth mentioning here, because the way the project is created is a big problem. After all, bypassing the way of the government's submission, it was possible to avoid extensive public consultations or even a political debate within the government administration. Why did most politicians care so much? I think one of the main reasons was to avoid answering the fundamental question: Why is this law at all? In the opinion of the club Modern law, although it is not openly unconstitutional, is intended to circumvent the basic law, because it is in it that the role of the National Radio and Television Council is recorded as an organ, which is to manage media space in Poland, both private and public. The Law and Justice and Allied Party want to change this order. They explain to us in the justification of this law that, after all, the national council cannot at the same time be a market regulator and exercise ownership supervision over one of its entities. We believe there is an ambaras with this bill in this way. It seems to the government that every media owner is like them: not only manages the company, but also tells exactly what journalists of a given medium should do, speak and preach. The system, which has been functioning so far, somehow, ladies and gentlemen, has proven itself, among others. Because the other heads of advice I just said didn't do. Maybe, except for the ungrateful exceptions in 2007 and 2009. Television and radio have been better or worse, but they have never tried to influence public media as vulgarly as they do now. [[Ha, ha, ha.]] For this reason, we treat the new system of national media through experience of recent months. Despite the introduction of one place for the opposition in the National Media Council, despite the bows in the catalogue of values to be promoted by the media, we believe that this law will simply be used to consolidate the role of the media as an armed arm of the PiS and its allies. The modern one would therefore like to see this law being brought to a separation of the management sphere of public media from the editorial zone in the course of parliamentary work. The latter should be managed by a non-political team. Of course, we're about to hear that competitions will be announced for the president of TV and radio, but let's face it, does anyone in this room believe that at least a shadow of a chance to win this competition has a person unrelated to the PiS. So the choice will be between yours. The second law we are considering today is the law on the financing of the public media system. In the modern opinion, this law is also an arrogant leap on citizens' money. What do we find in it? You want to delete all Poles for over PLN 2 billion only so that you can spend them on boring, pompous and stupid propaganda a la President Jacek Kurski and - unfortunately I have to say this - paramedic Claudius Pobozin. This scandalous propaganda tax, called the audiovisual fee by the applicants, is to be paid equally by all Poles. 15 zlotys a month. Not much, but that's 180 zlotys a year. Of course, 180 PLN per year concerns only the lowest possible level of punishment. If someone has a summer plot, two apartments or just two connections to the electricity system, they will pay a multiple of that amount. For example, if someone used to operate in the garage and has a second connection there, he will pay 360 PLN a year. Now, here's the interesting part, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Shamacha recently ran over that he wanted to increase the tax-free amount by 1 000. PLN per year. Minister, what's it like? $1,000. zł higher amount free is 190 zł more in the taxpayer's pocket. Yes? But on the other hand, your colleagues will take 180 zlotys from this taxpayer for propaganda tax. Ergo, you're a tax-deductor, you're gonna lower it net by actually 10 zlotys a year. That's the cost of a big coffee at a gas station. I'd like to ask the government majority from this point on if you have a thoughtful project. The second part about how to be exempt from the charge seems like complete chaos. Are you 100% Are you sure this system's gonna work? Are there databases of taxpayers or are they actually connected? I feel like it's a bill about how it's gonna work. The penalties related to the prosecution of unpaid charges are to be enforced by the tax authorities. Another nightmare. They are already overloaded with work, and the construction of this fee is so unspecific that I have the impression that administering this system will cost a fortune. Apart from the fact that we agree with the very idea of this propaganda tax, I have the impression that this bill was made on my knees and came to the Sejm in this tragic version mainly because you promised to present it within 5 months. But let's move on to the most important thing. What's the money for? You're gonna tax the whole community just so your pets can make propaganda programs. News is losing their ratings, it's blowing its head off at such an alarming rate that we're about to have to radically reduce the prices of advertising around this once flagship program. Now they are, ladies and gentlemen, a programme of one viewer, unfortunately one viewer - the President, because they are all made for his taste and for him. [[I'm watching, too.]] [[The president told me to.]] He rightly wrote, ladies and gentlemen, that the ideas contained in this law and in the National Media Act are not bad, because objectively they are not. The problem is not this law, but the sloppyness with which it is written, and the people who will implement it: people without properties, without moral spine, humbled servants towards their political rulers. They want to do this for public money, drawn from pensioners and all Poles, who are always so sorry about Law and Justice, when he emphasizes that most earnings in Poland are not national average, only PLN 2200. These Poles are about to get rid of 1% now. That amount, so that you and the director's father can have the TV they really like. That is why we cannot support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's news.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u347	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am a 31-year-old person, one of the younger messengers in this Seym, and that is why this bill really arouses my sincere surprise. Why? Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't had a TV in a couple of years, and many of my peers don't have a TV or ever had a TV. [[Doesn't the radio have one?]] And that is why, when I read the draft laws submitted to us today, I have the impression that they were created in relation to a reality which, for people of my generation, simply does not exist in the world. The Members submitting these laws and Minister Czabański, who, I understand, is the author of them, created laws regulating the system of public media existing, say, in 1995. There is a State Press Agency, TVP, Polish Radio in these laws. They are distributed on the ground or by electronic and telegraphic systems. The whole nation is to gather in the belief of the authors of the project around receivers and, I understand, absorb wisdom and nationally correct patterns of behavior. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not going to happen. In your project there is no VOD, there is no podcasting of radio broadcasts, there is no financing of Internet projects, there is no question of ownership generated for public money content used on the Internet, there is nothing characteristic of today's media consumption 20- and 30-year-olds. This project is clinically archaic and shows the vision of the information space of the state and society in terms of media control. In the meantime, there is no such control today. The content of video or audio works on the Internet outside the control of proud national media councils and no matter how much propaganda tax you make us pay in the electricity bill. At the same time, I imagine the rage of young people who will be forced to pay this tax, even though they don't have a TV and the public radio listen to their parents go to their family for dinner. For this money, a significant part of society will get nothing from the state and proud national media. I think they'll be really angry because young people can be cost-effective, they can count money that they often don't have much at all. High Izbo! The Sejm should be a place of common thinking about the future of Poland. In the meantime, I have the impression that this Seym is a place to Petrify a world that goes back to the past. This bill is a great example of this. It regulates the system of functioning of television and public radio as tools of propaganda. He doesn't even mention the Internet at all and shows the attitude of the rulers to generations that have grown up several years ago. It's sad because it's bad for the future of our country. I hope that the laws on which we are discussing will be addressed to the committee, including the Innovation Commission, which is important, in which both I am sitting and is sitting with the Modern Member, who is the President, and if you give us more than 48 hours, a few weeks for work, we will be able to improve these projects in such a way that the public media system described in these laws is consistent with the changing world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u349	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u350	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Too bad you don't have Miss Lichocka, I see Mrs Raven. Listening to both ladies, I had an amazing impression. Ladies speak nice Polish, but unfortunately I am not able to absorb the content that reaches me. I think we're actually speaking completely different languages. [[You should have gone to school.]] Listening to Mrs Raven and her opinion on several films, I have come to believe that this law lacks a certain password, and I think that this slogan could be the sentence expressed by Vladimir Ilyic Lenin: cinema is the most important of the plays. The state under the cinema, you can substitute television, the effect will be the same - the more authoritarian power is, the more this authority wants to collect media in its hand, because the media allows you according to your mentality to influence... [[How do you know the media?]] ...on people's minds and thinking. Times change, as we can see, but the concepts of politicians and power remain the same. Reading the Media Act, but much more so, ladies and gentlemen, the practice of recent months... If it weren't for the practice of the last few months, if my perception of the world was full of naivety, then by reading this bill, perhaps I'd believe it would be good television. Unfortunately, you are functioning in a reality in which public media are treated as a tool of government, such as ministries, business cars, police, special services. This is the actual purpose of this law and the effect of its action: party-government media operating according to the best standards of the Polish Radio-Committee. I will not go into details, but another fruit of your activities to date, if we were talking about public media authorities, and those authorities nominated by the Sejm, the Senate and the President will be party authorities and there is no doubt here... Art. 39 leaves a clever gate for Members. I hope to be a fortune teller that Mrs Kruk, Mr Czabański, Mrs Lichock, will take the seats on the public media council. This record, I think, is here for a reason. However, let us look at the situation in general in the public media in recent months. For 48 new members on the Supervisory Boards recently appointed up to 28 are active PiS activists. In the nearest radio station, in one of the best regional radio stations, on the PiK radio in Bydgoszcz on the three-person supervisory board of two members of this board are active activists of the PiS, councilmen. Is this, I'm talking to the absent extremely sympathetic Mrs Lichocka, just the practice and guarantee that this law will guarantee the apoliticality of the media? You started your government in the media with a great purge. This type of purgatory is essentially unprecedented in European or even world media. 160 people according to different estimates either fired or terminated their contracts because they had no choice but to leave alone so as not to company your programs. It shows what your attitude to HR is. We'll keep asking for a good change. [[It's up to you to decide whether they'd rather go alone or clean.]] When I really have a weaker day and I turn on television to find out what the world you live in is, I see something that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Makes me scared. The last program by Mr. Pospieszalski, who was the apotheosis of ONR, the fascist-racist organization, shows - and it gives me great fear - how you understand the concept of national media. [[We haven't learned anything interesting from you.]] I have a proposal for you. You have the power, do the media, but at least have the decency to do it for your money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u351	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Andżelika Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u352	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have memorized from these three draft laws two basic sentences, which I agree with. Mrs Raven: the media must be independent and objective. Mr Marek Suski: a common premium, fair and universally paid. And that's what I agree with. I'm not going to argue with that. I think there's a lot of optimism coming from today's process, because I'll remind you that we've been nailing a little media bill, staff bill in 24 hours, so we've got a little bit more time. [[48 hours.]] Unfortunately, now these critical issues. The hardest time has come for public media since 1989. That's what these three billings are for. There was supposed to be a large media bill, a long-awaited good audiovisual and missionary act. And what does the PiS offer us? Unfortunately, another staffing bill, propaganda tax: citizens pay, we will only give the right truth in our missionary work for our own and through our own. This mechanism of Law and Justice is perfected for perfection. I regret that this is how I have to talk about the media law. Stop it, ladies and gentlemen, this charade, because we are not investigating any media law today, but the introduction of a new tax granted to us by the Government of Law and Justice for public media. Excuse me, national. I'm so sorry, government. Actually, the ones observed today by the regime-party. Unfortunately, that's the truth. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the amount is very high. PiS wants to take a few billion zlotys from Poles, 15 zlotys a month added to each meter, 180 zlotys a year. At two meters - 360 PLN, at three - even 540 PLN, and this is included in the Act on audiovisual contribution. I'll give you some examples of life. First of all, retirees. Today, pensioners who are over 60 years of age and have a low pension are exempt from their subscription, and you make them wait until they are over 75 years of age. You have no mercy. Most of these people have to pay 180 PLN a year, and you may have to make them pay another amount because they have a recreational plot, or maybe three times that, or 540 PLN. Why? Because they have a garage. This garage is built for themselves, and it's not connected to the building they live in, and it's not on the same property. [[There's the henhouse.]] That's how the big propagandist's money will flow up to 540 zlotys. [[You have to read the article. 21th Bill.]] Unfortunately, did you ever want to dust off, citizen of the Pole, or light bulb yourself in a small repair in the garage? You have to pay the audiovisual tax. Thirdly, people working outside their home often not by their own choice. And here again PiS will apply: if you went to work somewhere further and you have two apartments - where you work and where you live - you will pay double, 360 PLN per year. It's a bonus for not being unemployed. Do you have a job? Then keep your mouth shut and pay. Unless there's a garage - another 180 PLN. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a benefit. It's a PiS business approach. For thousands of lucky people out of a million Poles paying propaganda tax, prizes of 5,000 were planned. zł. Isn't that very optimistic? [[Right.]] But back to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, you are becoming virtuososoes of the promise. You're going to the miners, and you're turning the Coal Company into a Polish coal group, and you're declaring it a success. Well, you're the biggest Polish rebranding agency. You guys are great at changing the names of everything, but just everything... [[Member, let's get to the point. About.]] You listen to me and you focus. The former Civil Service Council - you switched it to the Civil Service Council. [[Applause]] You have converted the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy into the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. 500 PLN per child - 500 PLN per second and third child. [[And not always.]] You don't close the mines, you mute them. And, as usual, I could say it for a long time, because it's PR good tricks. [[It's empty!]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] [[There's an agricultural agency.]] Worst of all, you're once again cheating voters. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, you're missing the truth. You promised in the election campaign that you would consult with the sovereign, changed by all cases. What are you doing? Once again, you are introducing unconsulted and undisputed draft laws, whose titles should simply be: the Law on the Propaganda Tax of the PIS. Sounds proud. You want to impose a tax on Poles to pay your propagandists? We don't have our permission. A good change is going on and, I understand, it's going on. A small media bill, which I always called a staffing bill, was carried out, of course, expressly, also without any consultation, because the staff purges were the most important. You have fired over 100 journalists who have often worked on both radio and television for many years. It's scary to think who you're gonna be firing right now. Maybe the conflict that's out loud between the President and the Vice Minister is true and a good change is about to take place. You're talking about missionary. You hide yourself from the fact that this is a media law, i.e. public media, social media, plural, pro-social media, their missionary work is a strategy. So, ladies and gentlemen, prove it. I have a very good proposal that I will make as an amendment to this bill, because I am aware that you have most in both the Seym and the Senate. You've got your president, and you're gonna pass whatever you want. I suggest... [[The nation has chosen.]] Not a nation, just over 30%. I propose in further work on the project, because probably most of the PiS will push through one, the other and the third harmful act, making a fundamental change, because in a moment every Pole will pay on PiS TV and PiS radio, and it does not matter whether he is watching it or not. [[You repeat yourself, Member.]] The only way to avoid this is to cut the power, but I understand no one's gonna benefit from it. On behalf of millions of Poles forced by the PiS to pay another tax on the first, second and third houses, recreational grounds, gardens, garages I have only one appeal. If we have to pay for these national media, the media of the PIS, then let's pay, but at least let the National Radio and Television Council watch over it, not waste this tax on exclusive propaganda. Let this subscription of millions of Poles from the national treasury, and precisely from the Public Media Fund, be divided between all media, both public and private. Let program 1, 2, regional television, Polsat, TVN, Republic, radio RMF, ZET and Television Trwam try to get this money in an open competition... [[Yes!]] ...for public service programmes. Do you understand? Public mission! [[Don't yell. Here are the microphones, Member.]] Let those billions of zloty a year... Let all media submit their offers to the best mission program. Thanks to this competitiveness, we will all be aware that we are choosing the best and most effective mission programme. It will also be an opportunity for these new, ingenious, for those who want to carry out a good media mission. Because the program, ladies and gentlemen, is made up of people. A great mission program has a chance of success when public and private media take part in an open competition. Answer: What do you want to spend several billion zlotys on? Besides, they're probably gonna be asking questions like that. For those people from the party or the professionals? We all agree on professionals. We agree on new technologies. If so, for what? We agree on new channels or a new platform... [[Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Do you care about mission or... [[Game in the O.R.]] ...better solutions. Mr President, it is important to understand what modern television means. [[It's not modern either.]] Your ideas contained in these laws will result in the fact that only the truth revealed about the lovingly prevailing PiS will flow from public media in quotes. And the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, and you're all aware of that - the ratings are falling. Poles prove clearly: enough truth revealed only by the Law and Justice which you give for public money. The popularity of many programs is falling, and it does not come out of nowhere: News about 700,000. less viewers, TVP - the worst score in history. Please argue with that. But lately we hear that even President Kurski found a golden center - a new telemetric research center: it can't be true that the ratings are falling. Therefore, I propose to include in the Act an additional point, which should sound like this: TV programs of Polish Television, Ones, and Polish Television, twos, always have the highest ratings in the country and abroad. It's done. I recall that during the period of the PRL cinema screenings were preceded by so-called. with a film chronicle, and I have the impression that it has caused irreversible changes in the authors' heads. Your journals are beginning to pierce these propaganda film chronicles, but there are only banners missing: PiS with the nation, the nation with the PiS! [[Applause]] It is true that there have been different times in the past, but journalists have been pretending, and today they are pursuing the policy of the PiS, asking biased questions for the answers already prepared and proving the thesis ready. [[Why are you screaming like that, Member? There's a microphone.]] Already today Poles are convinced that there is no public television, there is a propaganda tube of the only right party, because if a journalist does not follow your orders, if there is any opposition, he will be punished by being fired, with a wolf ticket in his hand! There's more layoffs in this bill. As of 30 September, the employment relations of directors, deputy directors, heads of editorial offices - subsequent staff turbulence of good change will expire. You're afraid of journalists, you're afraid of prosecutors, you're afraid of Poles. If that's the case after less than six months, I'm afraid of what's gonna happen next year. So far there is a National Radio and Television Council, and today there is also to be a National Media Council and social councils that will decide on staffing. In this media council, you have generously reserved one seat for the opposition. Let us not give the flower to the goat, it has already been said before, but maybe put it there immediately, in this place by Mr Morawiecki or Mrs Zwierzan, he will be already a representative of the opposition. [[Applause]] So what is the role of the National Radio and Television Council? It is a constitutional body. The creators of the Constitution have created the foundation of the state. Your governments, ladies and gentlemen, will also pass - maybe four years from now, maybe eight years from now. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: How about two?]] Time passes quickly, but Poland will remain. Every day we have more and more examples of why you are fighting so fiercely with the Constitutional Tribunal. This bill is another proof of the assassination of democracy and, I am not afraid to use these words, the assassination of the rights of Poles. Only a tribunal can find your laws unconstitutional, and you're afraid of it. As a citizen, I fear one more thing, that you are imposing this tax on the electricity bill. Because I suspect that either this money will disappear because of a growing budget hole, or they'll be another I.V. maybe for the mining industry, because energy companies are already throwing themselves at it today. And who's gonna know if another one's from the Poles' subscription? [[What's this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the election campaign, you said nothing about Poles without their consent. Prove it. 60%. Poles and Poles are opposed to these laws and solutions. What are you gonna tell them now? Television Poland is a public broadcaster, should take care of the viewer, support him by building modern, friendly, objective for citizens and information television. Products of Polish Television should be available in the right quality in every place of Poland. The foundation of each organization is the value and mission it represents. Public media should be the common good of all Poles, not of the PiS voters... [[Not PO-PSL.]] ...and cannot be owned by one party. Your actions are destroying the work that has been accomplished over the last quarter of a century. Therefore, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party requests that all three draft laws be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u353	Thank you very much, Member. The formal request was made by Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u354	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Dear High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Senator! These words I wanted to address to you and correct one thing, because here the terrible fears of your speech sounded, and I would like to reassure those watching this debate and listening to it. Madam President, with all due respect, you must read with understanding. I'm sending you back to art. 21 Laws, [[Applause]] a Article. 21 says that the final customer is exempt from the obligation to pay the premium from the additional point of collection if electricity is not supplied from this point of collection to a dwelling or dwelling. As a live plot... [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] ...or a holiday house on the plot is neither a residential house nor a residential establishment. [[Applause]] Madam President, please do not frighten the citizens, read with understanding and support. And you said beautifully that the PiS with the nation, the nation with the PiS. Yes, my fellow Member, [[Applause]] Because the nation expects us to make these changes. Because we had so much public support that we could rule on our own. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You have no shame.]] [[17%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. The President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Jan Dworak, asked for the floor. If there are any Members who want to join the questions, please, because after the Minister's statement, I will close the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, This is an important moment for the national council, but before I begin my speech, I would like to go ahead with two remarks. First of all, this moment. We have waited a very long time on the national council for this moment, at the moment of the emergence of new regulations on radio and television. [[Eight years.]] I do not hide that there is such a personal element here, because Minister Czabański is the main author of these laws. We've known each other a long time. This personal element may help, but it may also interfere with the assessment. Secondly, I'd like to... [[Guys.]] I wouldn't put it that way. I would like to say that the national council - and take this into account during this speech - ends its term of office. In three months, we'll have a six-year period of work. [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] So please consider the arguments, and I will defend the national council, not as a defence of our stools, our positions, but as a defence of a system, a certain system of public media established some time ago and functioning until now. In response to the request of the Marshal of the Sejm, the National Council will shortly present a detailed position on the three draft laws contained in prints 442, 443 and 444. In my speech before the High House, I will focus on issues which are essential for the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, the right to information and protection of the public interest in the media. Media law in Poland developed in conjunction with democratic changes in the political and state system, and the important stages of its creation were linked to the process of harmonisation with EU law. The national council was formed by the regulator as a body of state control and protection of the law. These regulations contain Chapter IX of the Constitution. According to Art. 213 of the Constitution, the National Radio and Television Council upholds freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly stressed in its judgments the constitutional position of the national council and the resulting legal effects. In the 2004 judgment, the Court stressed, and I quote: In accordance with the article. 213 of the Constitution and of the Act on Radio and Television, the National Council is, on the one hand, defending freedom of expression and, on the other hand, responsible for the implementation of the public mission, which is in the public interest of the radio and television service referred to in that Article. The Court added that the choice of organisational structures by which the public service mission of radio and television will be carried out belongs to the legislator, provided, however, that the body of the State, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, which is responsible for the implementation of the mission and the way in which it is carried out, is constitutionally established for this purpose. A similar view was expressed by the Court in its 2009 judgment, stating that the position of the National Council allows the latter to assume responsibility for freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television referred to in the provision of the Constitution cited above. It should be pointed out - the Constitutional Court stated - that, in particular, the values set out therein, such as freedom of expression or the right to information, are important for the implementation of the public service mission. In our opinion, the draft laws discussed today conflict with the above mentioned systemic tasks arising directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This is clearly demonstrated by the newly proposed regulation on fundamental issues and the consequences of their introduction, in particular the establishment of a competitive National Media Council. The solution proposed in the bill violates the constitution as it creates the so-called. competition with a constitutional body, which is the National Radio and Television Council. The appointment of the National Media Council, as provided for in Chapter 5 of the Act, is an attempt to circumvent the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The National Media Council will consist of six members appointed by the Sejm, the Senate and the President. This structure refers directly to how the composition of the national council is to be drawn up, and the novelty is the definition of a detailed procedure for the appointment of only one of the representatives of the Sejm, to be chosen from among the three candidates designated by the largest parliamentary opposition club. This solution could and would serve democratic supervision of national media, if not for the fact that, in the six-member board, we know, resolutions are taken by an absolute majority in the presence of at least three members of the board. I would like to remind you that, with regard to the amendment of the Act on Radiophony and Television 11 years ago, the Constitutional Tribunal considered the solution adopted at that time to the effect that the President of the Republic of Poland is pointing out that the President of the Republic is in breach of the basic law. After this judgment and after the amendment of the law, the election of the President was re-elected in a collegial manner, which is also in line with the recommendations contained in the European documents. According to the current solution, the President of the National Media Council elects a Marshal of the Sejm. A member of the National Media Council may not be a representative of the executive and self-government authority, but may be a Member, a Senator or a Party Officer. That's what we've been talking about in this room. This solution becomes another denial of the independence of the body overseeing national media, and if we refer again comparatively to the constitutional principle of not joining offices and functions expressed towards the members of the National Radio and Television Council in Article. 214, that is also contrary to the ideas of the legislator in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of this Regulation. 2 The basic law has made clear and unambiguous to the members of the National Council the prohibition of membership of a political party or trade union. We find regulation in a similar spirit in the European acquis. An example is the following quote from the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the independence and functions of regulatory authorities for the broadcasting media sector: "Rules governing the activities of regulatory authorities in the broadcasting sector, in particular the issue of membership, are a key element of the independence of these authorities. Therefore, they should be defined in such a way as to protect against all kinds of interference, particularly by political forces and economic interests. I continue to quote: For the above purposes specific rules on non-compliance should be laid down in order to avoid regulatory authorities being influenced by political force. The draft provides for the appointment of CEOs by the Chairman of the National Media Council on the basis of competitions. There is no information in the proposed rules on the criteria to be met by candidates for these functions and what the Council will guide in the selection of the competition. There are no instruments guaranteeing transparent and public performance of competitions, making public the assumptions and information about the conduct of the competition and the public relations involved. The appointment for the next term of office of directors of public media may already take place without a competition, and the number of term of office held is in principle unlimited. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the National Media Council project is equipped with the competence to deal with complaints about the activities of national media institutions and the right to evaluate draft legal acts relevant to the functioning of public media in Poland. What were the reasons for the designers, excluding from the jurisdiction of the National Council for dealing with complaints about the activities of national media institutions? The National Radio and Television Council acts in the interest of all audiences and upholds important democratic values. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] It is therefore not possible, in accordance with the applicable law, to exclude a specific group of recipients and their complaints, opinions and applications from the competence of the constitutional body. At the same time, it should be stressed that Chapter 4 of the Act on Radiophony and Television is fully repealed in the draft law, and therefore the authorisation to issue implementing acts by the National Council of Radiophony and Television, including regulations concerning the organisation of public benefit and political parties, is repealed. This decision of the projector is all the more unclear because, as I have already mentioned, in this respect the draft law on national media states that the national council receives reports from national radio and television institutions, but the proposal does not specify for what purpose, for which act and by whom specific rules will be issued for the access of eligible entities to programmes disseminated by national institutions. A very large number of eligible entities, for example, need to be reminded of this. about public benefit organisations. It should also be borne in mind that implementing acts of laws can only be issued by the bodies indicated in the Constitution. On the other hand, it should be stressed that the National Council remains a regulatory body for public broadcasters on the basis of an authorisation to issue implementing acts resulting from other laws, inter alia. powers that relate to specific issues related to the conduct of electoral campaigns. These regulations hang in a vacuum. The draft law introducing new regulations provides for the repeal of point 1 of Article. 6 of the current law, according to which national councils, in agreement with the President of the Council of Ministers, design the State's audiovisual policy in the field of radio and television. This provision strengthens the coherence of government bodies and the activities of the National Council as a non-government body. On the basis of this regulation, coordination and harmonisation of many government activities took place with the activities of the National Radio and Television Council. We have collaborated, and effectively, for the benefit of the public with at least a few ministries. The State's audiovisual policy concerns all media service operators and recipients. It should therefore be recognised that the action taken by the national audiovisual policy-making board is based on the provision of the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 1 of point 2 follows directly from the constitutional standard set out in Article. 213. The regulatory practice proposed at the moment will consolidate legal inconsistencies and deepen legal chaos. Certainly this is not how the projectors convince in the justification, how to order the media system so far and how to define mutual relations, rights and obligations. The mechanisms put forward in the projects for the appointment of members of the National Media Council, its activities and financing, with the exception of allowing members of political parties to join the Council and simultaneously having the function of Member or Senator, may be applied to the national council without the need to create a new institution. In this way, not only will there be no burden on the state budget, but there will be significant savings, as the national council would be financed with 1.5% a write-off from the revenue from the contribution, not from the state budget, as is currently the case. Let me just remind you, not to go into details, that in recent years the implemented budget of the National Council of Radio and Television is less than PLN 30 million, while 1.5% of expected revenues will be PLN 2 billion and PLN 2.5 billion will be PLN 37.5 million. Isn't there really something to spend that money on? Can the national council, which deals with much more cases, a much broader field of the entire media, meet its legitimate budgetary expectations below 30 million? There's an additional $37.5 million to be spent here. I don't get it. [[Who understands?]] In conclusion, the position on this part of the draft law, which concerns the establishment of the National Media Council, should be stated that the restoration of conformity with the Constitution may take place by abandoning the establishment of a new institution and leaving all tasks within the remit of the National Council, on which changes in composition can be considered. The view known and shared by a large part of representatives of the Polish media market is that the 2005 amendment, on the basis of which the personal composition of the national council has been reduced, considers the most pronounced beginning of dismantlement of the media system shaped in the age of democratic changes. Let me remind you once again that the term of the national council is due in early August, in three months' time. So what is it about the establishment of this parallel institution, which introduces only a mess, and also a beautiful name - the National Media Council. Is it really just about being able to act as elected Members and Senators and members of political parties? I can't imagine it. [[It's obvious.]] [[That's it, unfortunately.]] The implementation of this request, i.e. the resignation from the establishment of a national media council and the placing there of all the competences that are so far in it, and possibly new ones, will ensure a uniform, equal system of protection of constitutional values, including the protection of freedom of expression and the same system of control of the activities of market operators within the limits defined by law, i.e. without prejudice to their independence and responsibility for the shape of the programme. Unfortunately, this does not end with the serious shortcomings of new projects. The next is the introduction of restrictions on the activities of national radio and television institutions, including in particular in the field of the programme. One of the most striking examples is the proposed regulation contained in Article. 13, according to which radio and television institutions are obliged to promote the positions of Marshal of the Sejm, Marshal of the Senate, President of the Republic of Poland and President of the Council of Ministers. Public media do not have the right to refuse here, they must fulfil this obligation in accordance with the conditions laid down by the state authorities entitled to present their positions. These provisions are incompatible with a number of European acts, including the recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers to the Member States which are part of the process. 6 states, quote: Cases where public service broadcasters are forced to transmit information, statements or public communications, to inform or allocate to public authorities the activities or decisions of public authorities should be limited to exceptional cases, clearly defined by law. The proposed regulation is also contrary to the memorandum explaining these recommendations of the Council of Europe to guarantee the independence of public broadcasters. It is worth recalling that the present edition of the Act on Radiophony and Television in Art. 22 also provides for an obligation to present the positions of the Supreme Authorities in order to clarify state policy, but provided that this obligation is fulfilled only in the cases provided for by law. This provision shall be implemented through the issuing by the National Council of the relevant Regulation. The National Media Council will oversee the activities of national media in terms of legality and cost-effectiveness, adopting and approving two-year public mission plans and annual programming and financial plans. Through the power to approve a public service plan, the National Media Council has a very far-reaching competence to have a substantive impact on the shape of the programme, and if the broad competence of the Board to dispose of the National Media Fund, i.e. to allocate funds there, is taken into account how the members of the Board are appointed, it should be concluded that concerns about the political impact on the media transmission so that it corresponds to the governing majority are justified. I will remind you that, at the moment, the programming and financial plans are being agreed, there is no way for the national board to accept them or not to accept them, and they must be agreed. Whatever this formula means, it certainly means the independence of the sender. This is certainly a situation that I am returning to in the current legislation, which is contrary to the basic European standard, in order to protect public media from political influences as much as possible. This is a condition for their independence and programme pluralism. Only the media authorities should decide on the substantive content of the programme and the way in which the mission is carried out, and not the supervisory authorities, as I have already referred to, the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe for the Member States to guarantee the independence of public broadcasters. The scope and layout of the financial plans of the national radio and television institutions will be defined by regulation, that is what I would like to stress, the Minister responsible for public finances in agreement with the Minister responsible for culture and the protection of national heritage. This is an example of regulation which confirms the submission of media institutions to national authorities to a very strong degree. For the National Radiophony and Television Council, no power is provided for to take a position, including the adoption of an opinion in the procedure for setting standards for mission planning, financing and clearing. Mechanism referred to in Article. The 20th draft does not take into account the ratio legis of the constitutional standard and does not provide any powers for the national council in this respect, which is another example of limiting the powers of the regulatory authority contrary to the law and thus unjustified differentiation of actions taken by the national board in the interest of the public. The situation of national media as regards independence in the management of public funds remains debatable in the light of the explanatory memorandum I have already mentioned. I quote: Public broadcasters differ from their national counterparts also because they carry out their tasks independently, without interference from external authorities, and especially from public authorities, which distinguishes them from public broadcasters. The principle of the independence of public broadcasters and the resulting responsibility to the public for the way in which their missions are carried out is essential for the implementation of this mission in its entirety, especially in the field of information. The revenue of national media institutions is to be primarily from the National Media Fund, their transfer and control of their spending will follow the standards set out in Article. 20 projects, but in this procedure, as I mentioned, the national council is not taking part, although several government authorities are expected to participate there. It can be foreseen in a legitimate manner that the proposed amendments will be classified by the European Commission as new public aid, which will require notification and approval by the Commission. It should be borne in mind that, during an advanced agreement procedure before the European Commission, there is currently a procedure for amending the current Radio and Television Act. These changes are mainly linked to the need for full implementation of public aid rules in the financing of the media. The project was prepared in accordance with the 2009 Communication from the European Commission and in the current agreement with its representatives, inter alia. with regard to the clarification of the concept of public service mission and the concreteisation of public service broadcasting tasks in the so-called "public service mission'. It's a duty card. Replacing the existing legal arrangements and moving away from the changes already agreed with the European Commission to a completely new concept of the functioning of the public service broadcasting sector will make it necessary to start European reconciliation procedures from the outset. Finally, I'd like to say yes. Draft media laws deserve a thorough, factual and social debate. I would like to ask the High House, as a representative of the regulator, to ensure that such a peaceful debate can be held in the course of the legislative work. I would like representatives of creative and social organizations to be able to participate, because they have not had such a chance so far. [[A voice from the hall: And they shall have none.]] But I would also like to say two things more generally. The first one's like this. I accompany changes in public media, and before that I looked at these media still in the Polish People's Republic together with Minister Krzysztof Czabanski. We see how these media changes. I firmly believe that, regardless of the debate in Parliament, whatever form It will be possible to establish a lasting order of public media only in the agreement of the vast majority of the political world. Otherwise, this agreement, these ideas, even with very noble intentions, will have a one-term dimension. That's what history has taught us in recent years. Here I address the parliamentary majority in this respect. And I have one question, citing, I would say, this relationship with Minister Czabanski, to the people who drafted this bill. The question is simple and I ask you to answer directly because I haven't read or heard it. I understand that Members and Senators, including those drafting this law, do not aspire to dignity and to work in the public media council. [[No, they're not aspiring. They're already employed there.]] The question is whether it is or not. It's a simple question, because it's a sign of maintaining standards. You are calling for a very beautiful need to maintain standards. Let's start with each other. This time, unfortunately, I must ask you for such an answer. I know this may be a little rude in this House, but it opens up a serious discussion about changes in national media for me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They're already booked, not...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u357	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm shutting down the list of people voted in. 84 Members have joined the questions. I'm setting a time-and-a-half minutes for the question. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 2 billion PLN - beautiful money. But who will check the reasonableness of spending these 2 billion PLN? How will these expenses be justified and by whom? From the perspective of Poles it will be good if the media have quality, because quality is not propaganda. But from the perspective of decision-makers who take over this 2 billion PLN, the quality will be polls... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ... It'll be what you say about us as those decision makers. But, well, the viewers can go. It's okay. You're gonna make a special government agency, and it's gonna be okay. Here's the viewers. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] But what will they do when these viewers turn out to be gone and polls fall? And then we're gonna have to cancel the directors because they're not doing the mission, the mission of the PiS, and then we're gonna have to push even harder. But then the quality of these programs will fall even more. And what can viewers do then? Well, viewers may not pay. But if they don't start paying, what happens? [[They're going to jail.]] They're gonna shut them down. And if they turn off the power, it's good because they won't be able to watch commercial stations. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And if they can't watch commercial stations, it'll be okay. But with commercial stations for those who won't pay and who won't turn off the power, we'll be fine. For what? We'll use dumping in advertising. We have 2 billion zlotys. We can handle it, they can't. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The voice from the room: What a...]] [[The voice from the hall: You're talking.]] [[They're all on Mars.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u359	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Czabanski. Have you checked that the law is compatible with EU law? After all, you should get the consent of the European Commission to implement this law. [[Who cares?]] After all, as a rule, any state subsidy to economic projects in the European Union is prohibited - Article. 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - unless the Commission agrees to this aid. New public aid in the European Union must be notified. [[Jesus, the law specialist.]] This is the government, before it introduces new public aid, and subsidising television is such a help, it needs to inform the European Commission of its intention to introduce new aid and obtain its consent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the room: Especially Merkel would do it...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Liroy-Marc, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Media Act creates a new body, the National Media Council, which duplicates the National Media Council in part the competences of public media. Will the KRRiT budget be reduced accordingly? How do applicants imagine cooperation between the National Radio and Television Council and RMN? How high will the National Media Council's budget be? [[It's as high as it gets.]] How many jobs are provided by applicants in the National Media Council office and what are the rules for the remuneration of employees? Where will the National Media Council be located? [[Nowogrodzka.]] An audio-visual fee charged with electricity like in the Czech Republic is a good idea, but if public media do not broadcast advertising. Then citizens will know that they pay for cultural goods, not for commerce. Why does the draft Act on audiovisual fee not provide for a waiver or at least a reduction in the number of advertisements in public media? Shouldn't it be better to charge commercial broadcasters a public contribution by releasing space on the advertising market? These things are used and they work. Is it true that the PiS government intends to influence and exert pressure on commercial media by means of advertising prices for the largest players on the market, namely public broadcasters? [[Right.]] According to the Act, contracts expire Just the executives. What will happen to hundreds of PiS and SP activists [[♪ The bell ♪]] are currently employed on synecurs in public media, in non-directive positions? And lastly: Will TVP employees outsourcing by PO-PSL board be restored to work? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Only the props.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u363	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During a meeting of signatories to the Citizens' Pact for Public Media, a coalition of more than 70 civil and cultural organisations, with Minister Czabanski on 1 April, organisations and associations received the solemn assurance of the Minister that the parliamentary draft media laws will be the subject of wide and open public consultations, consultations to ensure that all the institutions and citizens concerned can comment and respond to these comments. At the meeting, the Minister also undertook to make a formal request to the Marshal of the Sejm for a public hearing. Deputy Prime Minister Gliński has repeatedly made a public promise to subject the bill to three months of public consultation. My question is: Have you kept your word and organised a consultation and will the Minister apply for a public hearing? Modern is also a signatory of the Citizens' Public Media Pact and we have requested a public hearing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u365	Thank you very much, Member. You asked Minister Czabanski for the floor. You're welcome. [[But after the questions...]] But you asked the minister, and I understand that it's special, and then we're gonna go over the questions quickly. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u366	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will reply to you immediately. Yes, yes, there will be a wide public consultation, with such proposals I have made and to the Marshal of the Sejm, and to the chairman of the cultural committee, as promised at the meeting with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This is before the project, not after.]] [[We'll vote in a week, and then we'll consult.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u367	Thank you very much. I invite you to ask Mr. Krzysztof Truskolas' question, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's laws are another of the so-called laws. A series of very bad. They're ruining our country. After the TK law, the police, the prosecutor's office, President Jarosław Kaczyński finally decided to take good care of the media. Ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the nation out of the PiS media. You can't call national media something that has nothing to do with them. [[Bravo.]] I propose that Mr. Jacek Kurski change the TVP logo to TVP Partition Television... [[Applause]] [[Let me see. Let me see.]] [[Member Krzysztof Truskolaski raises a card with a logo]] [[Voice from the room: It's even nice.]] ...and the names of the programs e.g. on TVP1 Unhappening, TVP2 Inept, TVP3 News on request, TVP History according to PiS, TVP Culture according to Gliński. [[Say something off your head, you're not in the cabaret.]] No one is deluded anymore, the public media in our country will cease to exist after these laws have been introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u369	Thank you very much. I invite Anna Elizabeth Sobecka, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The new media law is something that the public has been waiting for since 1989, because from that time to this day the media have served to realise the interests of the parties rather than the objective communication of information. [[President Wildstein was good.]] I think I've talked about this a lot. [[President Wildstein was, after all, president of Urbanski.]] Therefore, my question is: What new elements of the mission have been added to the proposed bill, and what was the reason why public television, in its previous term of office, had not fulfilled its role? And she had records in the Radio and Television Act, missionary records, that is, strengthening the family... [[The families of Radio Maryja, I think.]] ...against social pathology, respect... respect for Christian.... [[What was it like? How'd it go?]] ...Christian values, I'm sorry. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Not Muslim.]] Yeah, why hasn't she done it so far? And my question is this... [[There is no such thing as Christian values, there are universal values.]] Act in Art. 16 requires national public media institutions to report - National Radio and Television Council, National Media Council - but there is no procedure after submission of such reports. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, both counsels can put them in a binder and do nothing about it, so I would like to know what the consequences are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u371	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u372	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! In the course of this debate, it is difficult to really abstract ourselves from what you are treating us with, Minister, or what your internal competitor, Mr Jacek Kurski, on a daily basis in the media, today, unfortunately, so-called. public. I have a question. Does it say in this bill that Mrs. Lichocka is in the media at home? I would like to ask if it is written in this bill that Mrs. Lichocka is running every publicist program in which she is performing and has the right to lecture every journalist who runs the program? [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Of course it does.]] I don't hide it, the most outrageous of what you've offered us, the use of the national media name, because if to some standards what you're offering us, what you're showing us, especially in the News, you can compare it to me, it's Radio. Erevan, and it's certainly not a public medium. And I'm outraged that you're using the national media name. I have a request, a question. Could you carry out these public television manipulations not in the name of the nation, not in the name of Poland, not in the name of the white and red team, but in your name, in the name of Law and Justice or PiS? Because you're not doing this on our behalf. From this speaker I would like to say: not on our behalf. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u373	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The bill is one thing, but the people who will later implement this law are a completely different matter. Lichock's messenger, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, said this bill was intended to rip the national media out of the hands of the party nominates. Since you have supported and supported the applicants on this matter, I would therefore like to ask the applicants who, in that case, is Jacek Kurski. How would you describe the current president of public television... [[He's a non-partisan.]] [[He's partyless.]] ...after destroying the media and destroying the public media over the past few months? Isn't this a party nominate? Was Jacek Kurski ever a law and justice politician? True, temporarily exiled, but... [[He was.]] ...as we can see, he's back in favor and running public television. [[And what does the council look like now?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we received information, a few days before the very popular cabaret in Opole, that this cabaret for the first time in a few years will not be able to be broadcast by public television. Now I know why, after these voices of law and justice. You're the cabaret today in the Seym and on public television, unfortunately you're replacing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Just like volleyball for Tusk.]] [[You're the best actor in this cabaret.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u375	Thank you. I invite Mr Marcin Kierwiński. There isn't. I invite Mr. Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants of this law, namely whether, at the stage of its creation, they have asked the constitutional body which is the guardian of the public interest in radiophony and television, for an opinion on this project, and whether they have used this opinion. Did you try to do that? [[Yeah, Rzepliński too...]] Secondly, there is so much you are talking about the denial of public media, while the protection of this denial is provided by Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of this Regulation. 2 constitutions where it is said that a member of the National Radio and Television Council cannot belong to a political party. However, in your project concerning this parallel National Media Council there is no such thing that it cannot be part of a political party. Is it, then, to circumvent this provision, that it cannot belong to a political party, and that is what the opposition is supposed to be, that it may belong to a political party? Thirdly, if you wanted to reduce this dependence on a political party, why didn't you reach out to those proposals that were presented because it would be enough for candidates to be elected to the National Radio and Television Council to report to the academic community? For example, there was a proposal that two leading universities, the Jagiellonian University and the Warsaw University, should make such candidates. It is possible to write down that creative unions would bring out such candidates and among them the Sejm, the Senate and the President would choose their candidates for these [[♪ The bell ♪]] Council, National Radio and Television Council. In fact, I see that this was more about stubborning the media and bypassing constitutional records than about repairing or improving this important sector of public activity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u377	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I'll start my question with a quote. The Governor arranged for the Tsarica and her court to cruise down the Dnieper to show Catherine what prosperity prevails in his province. Since his province was actually little populated and poor, he decided to build a false village along the route of Catherine's journey and crush the people from the neighboring villages, change them into new clothes and show them how happy they are on the new land. [[Beautiful words.]] Governor, Minister, his name was... [[Potemkin.]] ...that is, Grigory Potimkin, and the actions he has taken since then we call the Potemkin villages. Your national media is nothing but a Potemkin village. [[Applause]] It's synonymous with fraud and appearances to hide the real reality. Hence my question to the Minister: Is it really for a picture of a non-existent world, a manipulated world, for publishing... [[We've been over this.]] ...the full language of hatred from the ONR banners you want to take money from Poles? It's just obscene. [[Applause]] [[We've been through this, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u379	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u380	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The whole point is that there was no inter-ministerial consultation and there is no government position, because many doubts could be avoided and solved by those already appearing here during questions. I think there's going to be a lot of confusion with this numerator tax, and there's going to be a lot of farms that will pay at least twice. Because imagine: another building is being built in the village. The family lives somewhere, while the building is being built. At the beginning of the construction, the counter is already installed and sometimes for several years this counter functions as an additional measuring device. You're gonna have to pay. If not, explain it to me. What if passive buildings are already being built, i.e. those that do not need external power, and there is no measurement? It's just that passive buildings are being built more and more often. I understand some of PiS' actions here because you fought renewable energy, didn't want people to be able to produce and download their own electricity. [[Applause]] [[How do I get a tribute now?]] And they're gonna get away from you right now because the interest in renewable energy is very high. [[It's for that reason, for example.]] What about those who don't have TVs, don't watch? People are talking straight: please, let this extra tax pay the PiS voters. If they want to pay, let them pay, they vote. [[Applause]] [[Not the rest.]] We don't want to watch PiS TV. So, Minister, a little sense and such a human approach if you want to do something right. [[Applause]] [[But they don't want to do the right thing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u381	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is unbelievable and unprecedented that such an important issue as the Media Act is a parliamentary project, a project without a broad public consultation. Once again, Law and Justice proposes a quick legislative procedure, shortcuts, with limited discussion. It is better not to discuss a good change, for it would turn out that it is not so good. Let me remind you that in December, during the process of a small media law, PiS declared something completely different - a broad debate. So? It didn't work out. Is that acceptable? [[No.]] We don't agree to that. I want to ask questions about the audiovisual fee. It is to be paid from each meter by everyone, whether they have receivers or not. All citizens are to participate in media maintenance. Theoretically, it's supposed to be public media. Unfortunately, we don't have public media. It's not public media, it's party media, it's law and justice media. Therefore, Poles do not want to pay fees and finance these media. I have a question: Will separate numerators of housing communities covering common spaces be charged with these charges, which would be absurd? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u383	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The current system of public media financing was based on a subscription fee mechanism which was linked to the possession of a radio or television receiver. This solution underlined the entity's subjectivity in relation to the State, ensuring that the fee paid represents an actual equivalent in the form of the provision of objective media services. On the other hand, the proposed method of financing the national media involves the introduction of an audiovisual contribution, which has been linked to the distribution of electricity. In other words, every household in Poland, even if it does not have a radio or television receiver, was charged with a new tax. I would therefore ask the projectors to clarify whether the continued increase in the role of the Internet has been taken into account at the expense of traditional media and the declining market share of public media in relation to commercial broadcasters. Therefore, I believe that the draft Act on audiovisual contribution actually exposes a growing group of people who do not even potentially benefit from the services of national media. [[So-called national.]] In addition, I would like to ask you about a situation where one person owns several properties, including a summer house or a garden gazebo on a plot or a freestanding garage. Is it right to collect an audiovisual contribution from each connection, if it is clear that the person may only be in one of his apartments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the premium will have to be paid for all the properties, the connections absolutely, whether he's there or not, whether he's using or using national media... [[Time.]] ...and does he have a receiver or doesn't he have one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u385	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u386	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The implementation of fire protection tasks is the primary subject of voluntary firefighters' activities. Fire protection shall consist in the implementation of projects aimed at protecting life, health, property or the environment from fire, natural disaster or other local threats. In accordance with the draft Act on audiovisual contribution, voluntary firefighters shall be treated on an equal footing with other persons in terms of their contribution, although the CSR guards usually do not have televisions and volunteer firefighters as part of their voluntary activities at CSR do not use access to electronic media. The burden on the audiovisual contribution of the TSO shall be reduced by the modest resources of those associations which are intended for fire protection activities. I have a question on behalf of the voluntary firefighters - there are 16 303 in Poland - to the Members of the applicants: Will it be possible to write in Article as part of the committee work. 20 or Article 20. 21 of this bill, so that the voluntary fire brigade will be exempt from this charge? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u387	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary project introduces a compulsory audiovisual contribution paid by the final consumer of electricity. This is a very fundamental change that is being imposed on citizens. So please explain to me, Members of the applicant, and especially to the Prime Minister, it is a pity that she is not here today - because you recently said at a press conference that democracy is about people choosing those who are to rule on their behalf in free elections - are the words of the Prime Minister, or that is what the Poles who elected you want. Didn't you tell the Poles before the election that 500 PLN will be for every child... [[We didn't.]] ...that they'll be worthy of raising pensions and pensions that seniors will have free medications? Did you make it clear in the campaign that Mr Ziobro and Macierewicz would return as chiefs of the most important resorts? [[Nobody asked.]] Did you tell the Poles that you would restrict trade in agricultural land, that you would seize public media, that you would break the constitution? Do you have the right to say that this is what Poles want? Answer me: Are you introducing an audiovisual contribution on behalf of most Poles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that what the people of our country expect? [[Applause]] And that's another good change in the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u389	Thank you. I invite Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. More and more people don't have a TV at all, and even if they do, they don't watch TV shows. [[That's what I'm talking about.]] Do you think it is right and justified to charge such persons, and if so, what? To me, it's pure stealing. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And one more thing. Why should the term of office of the National Media Council last exactly 6 years? Does this aim to ensure that the Law and Justice control media propaganda by 2022 and, in the case of re-election, by 2028? And there's an extra question. Is it true what you're doing? Or false? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u391	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u392	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have such a time that the Law and Justice of the whole state, especially everything that cannot escape from the axe itself. It has already taken over civil service, the justice system, all possible stools, IPN, history, and now it is the public media who dress up the feathers of the defenders of pluralism. The word key to this operation is propaganda tax, HR Act and regime television. In this unequal fight for depolitics there is also a sport theme: Who will win the race - Mr. Kurski or Mr. Czabański? What will it really look like, what will this pluralism of which you have been talking about on behalf of the Law and Justice, this political purity of public media have shown, for example. Forum of 4 March or recent appearances of a shady policy from across the ocean glorifying the Law and Justice in the baton of a journalist. This also shows the daily feature film played at 7:30 in place of the usual information program. The law itself conveys significant competences to the social programme councils. This is interesting, given the fact that the law itself speaks little about members of these councils. The question is who's gonna sit in them, whether they're gonna be SDPs, probably waiting in the launch blocks right now. Ladies and gentlemen, if this project does not undergo major changes, I believe that the Law and Justice should report on its use. [[♪ The bell ♪]] this 2 billion propaganda tax, because it will undoubtedly be another party subsidy for Law and Justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u393	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the decline in public revenues in recent years, the media have had to give up the soundstages, programs for children, educational and cultural programs, and these are the ones that distinguish them from commercial stations or radio stations. Regional TV centres were the most affected. It is all the more important that their activities are important for local communities, and this in turn is one of the pillars of democracy. I have a question for the applicants: Will the proposed law support regional media so that they carry out their work in a reliable way in order to inform local communities about matters important to promote the history of the regions, strengthen their attachment to small homelands and patriotism? Will the audiovisual fee improve the financial situation of regional media? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u395	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Blaze Parda, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum, the State stated: an amendment to the Tax Order will enter into force, which will determine that, under tax law, the contribution is treated on an equal footing with the tax and applies to it all the rules of tax law. So we're dealing with a tax, which is why we're going to post a change in the name of the law to the law on the electricity point tax, which is the electric meter tax. It doesn't matter what the target is, it's the source, for example. income tax is levied on income, goods and services tax - on goods and services. And these taxes aren't called payments for patching a budget hole. [[Applause]] Tell the Poles openly that this is just a tax on the electric meter, unfortunately. Question: "Is it possible for a person who does not have the ability to receive radio or television, and who would like to - maybe someone like that - to deliver One, Two in an electrical socket?" The ways of deduction and thinking are very, very complicated, and on the other hand very simple, because I have electricity, which means I probably have a TV and I'm definitely watching TV too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a kitchen knife at home and I'm afraid to think about what might be next. Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Ha, ha, ha. And the machete?]] I got the hammer.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u397	Thank you. I invite Anna Białkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have a small media bill in place in the atmosphere of the scandal. After its entry into force there was a purge in public media, more than 100 people were fired. Former journalists say that the main reason for the layoffs was the refusal to link any bad news to the opposition's activities or the absence of a link between good news and government activities. Today, the bill is also cleverly missing the legislative path adopted and is not an idea of government or president, it is an idea of Members. You have spontanely gathered and written a law on national media. Just before the end of the year, the state announced this law, so there is no question of the alleged spontaneity. There was time to consult. You are premeditatingly using the Members' Initiative. And let's move on to the art records here. 9th Bill. In point 10, you wrote as a media mission: to contribute to the comprehensive development of the young generation and to protecting children and young people from demoralisation. I understand you want to protect young people from Law and Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am very pleased, Minister, that you have already announced that there will be extensive consultation with creative environments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They're here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u399	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If the new law on national media is to make the media independent, objective, professional and willing to be watched, please be sure that it will not. This bill is digging up the idea of journalism, there is nothing in the bill that guarantees the independence of journalists. I have a question: Why does the law provide for the liquidation of Polish Television and Polish Radio companies and, at the same time, institutions which will arise from this transformation, can create their companies? What's the point, and what's the reason? And second question. The Act does not guarantee the number of field branches of Polish Television, currently there are 16 of them. Is there going to be so much left? That'd be good. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u401	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to invite Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u402	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The National Media Act creates a new body: the National Media Council, which duplicates the National Radio and Television Council in part the competences of public media. Will the budget of the National Council be reduced accordingly? How do applicants imagine cooperation between the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council? How high will the National Media Council's budget be? Another question. Why did you raise TV charges for pensioners - from the meter? You have reduced the number of people who, due to age or small income, have been exempt from payment of contributions. Why don't you like them so much? Remember, sometimes 15 PLN a month is a lot, especially when you have to choose whether to buy medicines or food. And we remember that the last value of pensions was 1.50. zł. And one more question. What about people who don't have a TV that don't have a radio in their car? What about people who don't watch public television - because when you see what's happening in recent times with the PiS government, it's a fear to watch it in their own home - but they have e.g. Two counters because they live in the old building? They will pay 30 PLN per month, or 360 PLN per year, because they have electricity. What if someone has an apartment or a share? 30 PLN as well, and you know it, paragraph 2. And if someone has a house, a plot and a kiosk as a company and there's no TV there, they'll pay 45 zlotys. How do you explain that every time a person like that pays, it's because they have electricity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u403	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u404	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It took only a few months for public television under the rule of Law and Justice to suffer three painful losses. First of all, she lost her impartiality, second of all, lost her integrity and third of all, lost her audience. The laws proposed by you will not make public media more objective and reliable. They will be more subordinate to power, but at the same time they will be richer, richer by 2500 million PLN, which will come from wallets of Poles. And that's nothing more than another tax you're trying to get citizens to take on their shoulders to keep the media that show reality not as it is, but as politicians of Law and Justice see it. Then why do you force Poles to pay PLN 180 per year for a service that is not necessarily suitable for them, because its quality is very poor? Let's face it: it's not going to be public media, it's not going to be national media, it's going to be party-government media, which is why you should keep it from the taxes that you already own and manage. At least that would be fair. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u405	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Baszka, the PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new public media funding system is to be linked to the counter, not to the address. Why are you charging people multiple fees? What about hotels, motels or other buildings that have dozens, if not hundreds of receivers? Why don't you offer a different fee to the companies? Why are you hitting the average citizen's pocket again? There are also no listed TVP branches in the new law. Is this how you create a gateway to possible liquidation of some of your troops? Why do you want to destroy the continuity and achievements of public media? Minister! Prime Minister! We raised our monthly pension by PLN 4.50 and PLN 15 will be charged for the meter. How does that feel to you? Don't kid the citizens. [[Applause]] [[How long has it been so far? 25 zł.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u407	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Breja, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u408	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Close to the former environment of Law and Justice, Professor Stanishkis said a few days ago that the Law and Justice of thought archaic, and the methods of your actions resemble the Putinian understanding of power. It so happens that two years ago, Russian Pride also dealt with media laws and, at the request of President Putin's administration, adopted a media law striking free Russian media. The world was impressed by how quickly these changes took place in Russia. It is precisely under such arguments as to limit the influence of this rotten West, the European Union and the United States. That's what the representatives of the Russian ruling party said. Within 9 days there were changes, the world was impressed, but the previous so-called PiS. A small media bill broke the Russian record. No democratic media law has been passed within three days. That's what you managed to do in December, beat Putin's record. But these are the Eastern standards, the car hires, the liquidation of the constitutional court... [[Oh, Jesus.]] ...civil service, government prosecutor's office and party government propaganda. [[Putin and I didn't hug.]] Minister, once the dog was chained to a shack, it was a bad standard. Why do you now want to tie millions of people to televisions that smell cheap propaganda with an electric cable? Why are you putting a racket on all the citizens, why someone who knowingly disposes of the TV will pay for the service, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which he's not interested in at all? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u409	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Richard Galla, a non-associated Member. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Access to public media for national and ethnic minorities is a very important element not only in maintaining the culture and identity of minorities, but also in view of the possibility of mutual understanding of minorities and the majority. As a representative of national and ethnic minorities in the Polish Sejm, I would like to ask the Members of the applicants about a number of issues. The first concerns Article. 9, where there are specific tasks for the institutions resulting from the public service mission to be carried out. Is it possible for us to add there the promotion of knowledge about national and ethnic minorities living in Poland? Is it in the article? 12 In addition to the foreign and regional language formula, can the language formula of national minorities also be introduced? In contrast, in the article. 29 (3) applicants propose that institutions representing national and ethnic minorities should be able to submit their representatives to the Programme Councils. My question is this: Will these places for representatives of national and ethnic minorities, especially in these regional media, where a minority operates, live, be protected, whether it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just a fiction, isn't it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u412	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It has already become a tradition that we are once again leaning on the parliamentary project, not the government project. After all, we have heard so many times here that we will not miss the consultation during the work on such important projects. Although the Minister has promised us whether to inform us that he is planning a consultation, I do believe, and maybe it is just that, although I have already worked a considerable amount of my professional time, I am in the Sejm for the first time that, as parliamentarians in this House, we should have a clear programme of work on individual legal acts, so we should also know what the nature of the consultation will be. I can only guess that they will be broad and take into account the opinions of the different environments. Here's another question. What exactly is the division of tasks and responsibilities between the National Media Council and the National Radio and Television Council, if these areas overlap? How will these bodies be financed? It was supposed to be very cost-effective. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do regional media have a chance to contribute financially to the media fee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u413	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I quote for TVP Info: If national media are to influence society, then they must be watched, and that is the problem we are facing. And who said that? The president himself said so on Friday during a conference at a higher seminary. I understand, because from your projects it is clear that Poles will have to be under strict security, for example. Cut the power to pay for your TV. But according to the president, they're gonna have to see it, too. So I'm asking you how you want to enforce this compulsion. And whether it will be a direct compulsion e.g. under the personal supervision of Minister Ziobra? How about sophisticated extortion by the President of Kurski himself or other celebrities of the silver screen? At the end of the anecdote. The 1970s, the Program 2 of Polish Television is being established. Kowalski watches, says Comrade Gierek, so he changes the channel into another one, and there is power, a policeman who says, "What, Kowalski, doesn't like it?" Is it déjà vu? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's ridiculous! Ha, ha, ha! What a sense of humor!]] [[Voice from the room: Opole.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u415	Thank you. I invite Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ruler Law and Justice without any reflection, without any thought, without asking himself why he does it, destroys everything. Let's start with democratic governance in Poland, with such difficulty being built. Ladies and gentlemen, making changes that you don't have the consent of the public because you don't have, because it's not enough to win the election to take over the state... [[What did you and OFE do? Did you ask the Poles?]] Part of these changes are changes in the media, because by means of the previous act you made a jump to the stools. The effect of these changes in the form of a drastic decrease in public television ratings You can see it today. The changes introduced by this law are controversial, and therefore I have two questions: What right and why do you impose obligations on energy companies to download a subscription? This violates the constitutional principle of freedom of economic activity. Why are you charging local governments the cost of keeping a register of people exempt from subscription fees and not giving them money? You have already deceived many people, institutions, you have deceived Polish society. And you're still doing it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[He was chasing the pot to the kettle.]] Ask yourselves where you're going. [[Applause]] [[Oh, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u417	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've brought you a list of disgraces for a good change. On behalf of modern and colleagues from the media, I would like to ask the Minister what substantive reasons they have decided to remove, exempt or force the public media of those whom I will now mention. These are: Sławomir Assendi, Wojciech Biedak, Kamila Biedrzyca-Osica, Marta Bobowska, Mariusz Borkowski, Lena Bretes, Agata Całkowska, Waldemar Chudziak, Mirosław Cichy, Barbara Czajkowska, Maciej Czajkowski, Daniel Czarnecki, Marek Czunkiewicz, Marek Czyż... [[Hello to their memory.]] ... Ryszard Ćwirlej, Kamil Dąbrowa, Anna Dębowska, Justyna Dobrosz-Oracz, Mikołaj Dobrowolski, Tadeusz Doroszuk, Kamil Dziubka, Leszek Dziura, Justyna Dżbik-Kluge, Adam Feder, Andrzej Fidyk, Jolanta Gadek, Ewa Godlewska-Jeneralska, Andrzej Godlewski, Jacek December, Henryk Grzonka, Agnieszka Gulczyńska, Artur Gurec, Katarzyna Janowska, Kinga Jasionowska, Piotr Jaźwiński, Magdalena Jethon. Ladies and gentlemen, you have these letters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u419	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Please wait. Minister.]] Excuse me. Minister Czabanski. There you go. [[Barbara Dziuk and Józef Szczurek-Żelazko chant: Minister! Minister! Minister!]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u420	Excuse me, sir. Because this thread appears... [[He blushed out of shame.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all those who attended the Committee on Culture and Media a few weeks ago know very well that three people have been released from the public media since January this year, since the introduction of these changes in the media leadership. Three. Remember that. Three, no more. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u421	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I understand that this is a parliamentary project, so it is strange that it is the Minister who is responsible for this. [[Applause]] [[He's an envoy!]] First of all, I would like to congratulate a Member of my district who is not here, Mrs Jolanta Lichocka... [[Joannie!]] I'm sorry. I would like to congratulate Joanna Lichocka on her new role. To get to the question, I will continue the topic that was just begun here by Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska. What are the substantive reasons for removing, releasing or forcing the persons I will mention to leave. These are: Jerzy Kapusciński, Łukasz Cardas, Magdalena Karpińska... [[How boring you guys are.]] ... Elżbieta Kiernicka, Andrzej Klewiawo, Jarosław Kowalski, Robert Kowalski, Łukasz Kowalski, Marcin Kowalski, Dominika Kozłowska, Anna Krakowska, Piotr Kraśko, Milena Kruszniewska, Marian Kubalica, Maciej Kucharski, Piotr Kuciński... [[Do you know them?]] [[Don't interrupt.]] ... Jarosław Kulczycki, Roman Kurkiewicz, Jarosław Kusto, Anna Kwiatkowska, Izabela Leśkiewicz, Karolina Lewicka, Hanna Lis. You're interrupting those names. [[Because they're ashamed.]] That's 130 names, so remember them well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u423	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. [[There'll be other names.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Minister! I was at that committee meeting. Mr. President of public television Jacek Kurski wasn't telling the truth. And I have a question of what substantive reasons have decided to remove, exempt or force the following persons from the public media. These are: Izabela Leśkiewicz, Karolina Lewicka, Hanna Lis, Anna Lisowska, Paweł Ławiński, Cezary Łazarkiewicz, Dariusz Łukawski, Sławomir Majcher, Artur Makara, Juliusz Maliszewski, Radosław Masłowski, Piotr Maslak, Anna Mentlewicz, Małgorzata Mierzejewska, Andrzej Mietkowski, Marek Mikos, Jerzy Modlinger, Paweł Moskalewicz, Jerzy Nachel, Grzegorz Nawrocki, Katarzyna Nazarewicz, Michał Niewniszki, Jan Ordyński, Nina Nowakowska, Joanna Osińska, Bogumił Osiński, Michał Owerczuk, Lech Parell, Andrzej Petelski, Tomasz Pietraszak. Ladies and gentlemen, more respect for the people you've fired, the ones you didn't respect. More respect - yes, Member, yes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u425	I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Next list.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u426	I understand those names hurt, but I would ask for a little culture in the O.R. [[We don't know those two.]] Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also wanted to ask what substantive reasons had decided to exempt or force the public media of people who I will mention: Katarzyna Pilarska, Beata Polaczek, Marcin Pulit, Joanna Racewicz, Iwona Radziszewska, Paweł Radziszewski, Piotr Radziszewski... [[Family?]] ... Tomasz Rakowski, Ewa Rogala, Piotr Rogoziński... [[Is this family?]] ... Agnieszka Rokita, Diana Rudnik, Krzysztof Roman, Grzegorz Sajór, Grzegorz Sawicki, Magdalena Siemietkowska, Małgorzata Serafin. A wave, an army of Nicodemus Dismows companies of the State Treasury. The army of journalists from your trained media today exchanged experts and experts in the field of journalism from public media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u427	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since the Minister was kind enough to approach us and explain to us that he will tell us personally why she was fired or removed or forced to leave, we will allow ourselves to read this list to the end. [[Applause]] Monika Sieradzka, Mr Jakub Sito, Mr Marek Składowski... [[Do you know them or not?]] ...Mr Jacek Skorus, Ms Ewa Ślezak, Mr Jacek Snopkiewicz, Mr Igor Sokołowski, Mr Jerzy Sosnowski, Mr Tomasz Stawiszyński, Mr Tomasz Sygut, Mr Mariusz Syta, Mr Jacek Szarek, Mrs Marta Szostkiewicz, Mr Przemysław Szubartowicz, Mr Andrzej Szwabe, Mr Mariusz Szymyślik, Mr Jacek Tacik, Mrs Beata Tadla, Mrs Kamila Terpial, Mrs Grażyna Torbicka, Mr Bogdan Ulka, Mrs Joanna Warech, Mr Maciej Wąsowicz, Mrs Dominika Wielwieyska, Mr Piotr Wojtkowiak, Mrs Bożena Wojtowicz-Waszak, Mrs. Thank you, Minister. I hope we can meet and talk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u429	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krystian Jarubas, the PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u430	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! All the names have already been mentioned, a good change has come to fruition. But I have two questions for Members of the applicants. Ladies and gentlemen, the project requires national radio and television institutions to promote the position of Marshal of the Sejm, Marshal of the Senate, President of the Republic of Poland and President of the Council of Ministers. Moreover, it does not leave any allowances to the public media as regards the speaking time. Is this what the independence of public media is supposed to be like? according to Members of the Law and Justice? [[The Green Banner stays.]] Second question, Mr Kaleta. For the first time, there is no statutory guarantee for the development of basic TVP programs, i.e. TV singles and twos. Why was this provision deleted from the bill? Thank you very much. [[Very nice, very nice. You're good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u431	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Friends from Modern... [[Preacher.]] ...you didn't mention one very important person. So did Grażyna Torbick. [[She was mentioned.]] [[You weren't listening.]] I wasn't listening? Excuse me. It is all the more I want to emphasize the high professionalism of this white and red media team of public television of the Republic of Poland. You've removed them from work, that's unacceptable. [[But you didn't mention Thomas Lisa.]] But before I speak further and before I ask the Minister a question, I wanted to show Mrs Elizabeth Raven the book. It is a liquid surveillance, co-authored by Zygmunt Bauman. I'm asking you to read this. You're not gonna talk crap out of that bleacher. [[Oh, oh!]] On the other hand, when it comes to national media, I think that this law is anti-national, anti-public, anti-Citizen, grafoma, amateur, which undermines the foundations of a democratic secular state - art. Four of these laws show that. Why are you giving up your religion? Answer me that. [[Confessive?]] [[Secular voice.]] Secular.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u433	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Pasyk, the PSL club. [[Oh, this one's gonna be good too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! There are a great deal of solutions to ensure a political monopoly in public media, and there is a great deal of money to guarantee the achievement of political goals, while there are very few solutions to consolidate the mission of these public media. I wanted to ask: are you - this is a question I am asking applicants - open to broadening the public media's catalog of tools to strengthen this mission so that we can one day look forward to public media like the best ones, including the BBC? I don't think it's going to happen for the state of government, but it's ours, I think, most of it in this room, those pro-state-minded, target, and your actions today are an obstacle. But are you open to creating actually missionary public media? Thank you very much. [[You've been in charge for eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u435	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u436	Mrs. Marshal! Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! Ladies and gentlemen! As for Mr. Kraśka's release, I'm not surprised at all, because how many years can you be on TV? He's been on the TV for 40 years since the show. What's the TV gonna look like under the PiS, you can see from these cameras. This is the camera, this is the camera, this is the camera, and there's no camera. There isn't. [[Applause]] [[There isn't.]] Why doesn't she? From where 15 zlotys of subscription, we already know. Mr PiS said it was because of the name "Kukiz"15. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Now I'm talking. We're very happy about that. Cut taxes to 15: PIT, VAT and CIT, you can eliminate PIT completely. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. TVN's a business. The only guy who says that is Max Kolonko. Polish media, I'm sorry, Polish media doesn't say how it is, nor does public. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the best television in Poland? Imagine: the best TV is made by Max Kolonko. No one's paying him, and 2 million people are watching him. But there's another group that makes very good TV. Service makes very good TV. Waiters from Owl create very good television. At least they tell you what it's like. Ladies and gentlemen... Oh, no, I'm sorry, Mrs Pomaska is also saying how it is, especially after the last recordings. He's a good guy, too. [[Applause]] But I see here the beauty of this project. Because, in fact, if someone doesn't pay for it, they'll cut the meter, the electricity, they won't have the power, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause he wasn't paying for TV, and then what's gonna go up? Childhood at the Blackout. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[But then 500+ won't last.]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u437	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u438	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, You came up to us and you talked about three people being fired. We, of course, read that list... I have proposed to my colleagues, my fellow Members and my fellow Members that we present, remind these people, because many of them have worked for decades on television. If you know the media - and you know the media - then you know that people are really the greatest treasure. Mr Kukiz, 15, I see, is not fully aware of the media because he accuses Mr Kraśka that he has been working too long. Well, Mr President, there are political commentators in the United States, people running programs at ABC, in NBC, who are retiring... [[Very good. Ask him who Mr. Kraśka's grandfather was.]] I don't ask who your grandfather was. I don't want to know. [[Resort kids.]] Minister Cezary Wojtczak, head of the PiK radio in Bydgoszcz, Pomerania and Kujaw radio, won in a free competition. Not related to any political option, great radio chief - fired. Jerzy Sosnowski, my favorite editor in Trinity, is fired. But we have also read Marcin Zaborski, who has been too indicating your Members and Ministers and has been transferred to another programme for punishment. [[So he's not fired.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's too bad. No, we were talking about what we were talking about, right? Don't say a word. [[So is it fired or not?]] Minister, I'm sorry for the opportunity you had, because you had the chance to go into history, you could have created a Polish BBC, it didn't matter. You've got the Sejm, you've got the Senate, you've got the Sejm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The president...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u439	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u440	It's a shame you didn't undertake this mission. Really. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u441	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u442	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, I understand the need to build national media as an important tool for building also national identity. Except I think you've forgotten that it's the 21st century. Instead of building something like this media complex, which is the BBC today, you have a project that seems really very archaic. Tell me, Minister: Do I think you guys really stopped at the time of radio and television and didn't notice any new technologies? I also have this question, bringing a little issue of payments to absurdity: does it seem ethical to you to download this 15 PLN from a person who is e.g. blind and deaf? [[There are shut-downs, don't lie to me. Disabled people don't pay. You haven't read it.]] I would very much like to hear that answer from the Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You haven't read it. Read it, please.]] Next question, last one. When I look at this bill, this act of public television today, I feel like it's party television. I have this question: If you, as the largest parliamentary club, draw the most money from Poles' pockets in the form of subsidies for a political party, do you not think you could give up this television a little bit? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u443	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder from the Modern Club is speaking now.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u444	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Last year, you assured us here in this Chamber that you would conduct a wide public consultation on public media. Mr Czabanski's questions about dreams and demands without showing the project are not consultations. Why, then, have you ignored the Civic Pact for Public Media, which has signed over 70 civil, social, expert organisations specifically linked to culture? I'll have pity on you, I won't name them all, but they were, among other things.: Journalist Foundation Public Medium, Foundation eState, Foundation im. Stefan Batory, Guild of Polish Directors, Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, Institute of Public Affairs, Civic Network Watchdog Poland, Laboratory of Research and Social Innovation Shipyard, Polish Writers' Association, Union of Polish Theaters, Polish Composers' Union. Ladies and gentlemen, second question: Is it true that TVP1 and TVP2 media ratings are falling on their heads and are the lowest in 20 years? But won't the dark people buy it, Mr. President Kurski? Thank you. [[It's the people who have to be asked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u445	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u446	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, a few months ago in one of our television studies we had the pleasure of talking about the so-called. A little media bill, that staff bill. Then you mentioned, you promised that in a few months there would be such a very good project that would make our TV such a Polish BBC. I have to say, I'm disappointed in this project. I understand that we cannot accept some foreign solutions, because there is no queen in Poland, so with this BBC it will be a little difficult. Similarly with the German system, we have no land, so there would probably be some difficulty. But why didn't you, Minister, take advantage of the proposal for a civil pact that talks about representation of creative, academic, journalistic and managerial circles? Why are we afraid of such representation? After all, she could provide this need for our television pluralism, she could provide this professionalization. We agreed, Minister, in this conversation I mentioned earlier, that the model was not perfect. I want to make a point here, too, and to stress that he was not perfect either, in my opinion, because he actually put these two orders together: regulation and ownership. Thus, changes were necessary in this respect. On the other hand, today I am afraid of three issues in this law, first of all, it is the political shaping of the company authorities, which is important... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, time.]] [[He forgot, he was staring.]] And remember, your time will run out someday...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u447	But, sir, your time is up. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u448	...and then this place on the media council will be occupied by others. Well, I have 14 seconds left, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u449	Well, I guess it was a misunderstanding, a watch. [[That's what I want, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u450	The second point is that there is no regulation on advertising. I'm asking for an answer, because it could destabilize the market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, the third case, the transformation into an institution instead of a commercial law company. It could be destabilizing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Uninteresting questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u452	Thank you very much. Minister! If there were consultations, probably a lot of these questions would already be explained. I have two: Is it true that several tens of thousands were spent from the Ministry of Culture to create these draft laws on audiovisual fee and media law? [[Messengers.]] Messengers. Who's the author? Is it true that an agricultural policy specialist? That's one range of questions. And two: Minister, is there a threat to the existence of regional troops? For the first change, a major change in the new law is the recording, or actually the absence of a recording relating to the Polish Television branches. In the current law, each branch is listed, while in the version submitted by PiS is only a reference to the Polish Television Statute. In turn, the statute shapes the public media council, so it can change it at any time. It is hard to believe that the designer introduced this formula by accident. It can therefore be assumed that PiS is creating a gateway to converting or winding up certain branches. Of course, it cannot be said directly, hence the question to the Minister, but it is more likely that PiS is known for its fact that it prefers to centralise rather than decentralise institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Actually, it's an idea.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u453	Thank you. Now the question is asked by Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u454	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's not a list of journalists, it's a media three-pack of the state. The student of political science knows that whoever has the media has the power. And a little bit about these questions, the fights in the PO-PiS family would like to say that he forgot the ox as a calf. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who ruled this country... [[In our country, sir.]] ...in our country for 26 years, sir, he has stubbornly been a journalist's profession and has done everything he can to make them party officers. You guys, the party class, the party comrades, you did everything you could to make the lists of journalists being released every election to sow. Back to the question. I have read these documents and I have a question: Is it true that the Council of People's Commissioners is coming back? In print No.442, please, as far as the media council is concerned, it is not really clear who controls them, who checks them, who settles them and who has the right to fire them. And then there's the last thing. He's coming back, ladies and gentlemen, and specifically, I'm sorry, he's going back, he's going back, he's going back, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going, he's going back, he's We have the Internet 24 hours, we have the 21st century, and it turns out that the inkasent is immortal, Bareja is immortal. There's a collector coming back who's gonna have to visit all the houses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, computers let's take them out, they're unnecessary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u455	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u456	The television-radio factory of lies and manipulation in party-government media is to be headed by a six-member National Media Council chosen by the Sejm, Senate and President, i.e. PiS, PiS and PiS. But it's already been done. Or let me put it another way, more accurately: a six-man council will be elected by the president. The president of the premiere, the president of the superintendent and the president of the country, the nation to Poland, the European country, in 2016 restores censorship, restores the phenomenon of supervision of the authorities over information. [[Oh, dear!]] Above all, the President did not predict one thing: that unlike the times of the Polish People's Republic, it is different from national political television and radio. There's the Internet, there's phones, and we can go abroad. We can also reactivate Radio Free Europe to promote, as it was in communion, values and democratic institutions by disseminating real information and ideas. [[We'll be jamming.]] You can include absolutely everything that makes water out of your brain, and you can vote it all out, but you can't make one of them -- you can't make it mandatory to watch your national propaganda television. You will not introduce an obligation to listen to the national radio, because every Pole in his home rules his own pilot... [[Voice from the room: German.]] ...and no president has power over it, as he has power over you, over the president, as he has power over the Prime Minister, the entire government, and your entire coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u457	The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u458	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We are debating a package of laws on national media. And here I cannot not ask you Members of the Civic Platform after their statements from this speaker, which prevents you from identifying the national term in the title of the Act. You even asked, "Whose country is it?" Well, ladies and gentlemen, national, or Polish nation, means all Poles at last. [[Applause]] Many topics have already been raised in the discussion on the draft law. One of the important aspects to be raised is social control... [[PiS-owska.]] ...over the content of the software provided by Polish radio, Polish television and their regional radio stations and centres. Poles should know how money from the audiovisual contribution will be spent. The question should therefore be asked how the members of the Social Programme Councils will be selected and who will be able to submit candidates to these bodies. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u459	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Józef Rzczurek-Żelazko, club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The nervousness with which the opposition MEPs react to this project, which is losing the ability to manipulate public opinion, demonstrates the need for this law. The media, as an institutionalized channel of content transmission, can carry out a number of functions of different meanings and perspectives. Their educational role is particularly important and includes among others. popularization of national culture, presenting the latest scientific discoveries, presenting works of art. I have questions about that. Will the national media perform an educational function? How will they participate in the general educational system? Are educational programmes planned? Will it be preserved or extended to provide airtime to associations and foundations operating free of charge public benefit? And another question: How will the subscription fee be charged in public institutions, e.g. hospitals that have several or several energy meters? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u461	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Jan Mosiński, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, two words are addressed to the Civic Platform and PSL. After you took power in 2007, you began to monopolize the media in an absolute way. You threw away not only the heads of public service broadcasters, journalists, but also the private employees you suspected of being involved with the IV Polish Republic. These are facts. [[That's bullshit.]] [[That's an inconvenient truth.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have four questions for the applicant. First of all, are we going to encode sports programs containing broadcasts from important sporting events, according to the proposed changes for political reasons, as was Mr. Donald Tusk's premiere? Secondly, will national media serve Poles or German companies? Thirdly, in the media, will we restore permanent dignity to the truth that PO and PSL described as embarrassment because Polishness is abnormal? [[You're lying, sir.]] [[Calm down.]] [[Please don't disturb me.]] Fourthly, will we restore the proper place of historical truth, which under the PO-PSL rule looked like a saying, I quote: during World War II Poles set fire to barns and put out Germans? That was your historical truth... [[I'll protest as long as you lie.]] ...in the media passed on to the young generation of Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u463	Thank you very much. Madame, you are interfering with the proceedings. [[Then don't lie to me.]] [[I'm just fighting for the truth, Marshal.]] Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u464	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Radio and Television Council is responsible for the substantive control. The members of this body shall be elected by the votes of the Members, the Senators, as well as by the President of the Republic of Poland. It is known that they are often friends in power, and they also defend the system. We just heard it from the chairman of the National Council. By creating the National Media Council, you are building a work composed of faithful pretorians, who will serve you faithfully for the next six years, defending the system just like colleagues from the National Radio and Television Council. [[It's gonna be husaria.]] The new subscription fee, which is a new tax, will also allow for costly games of these advices when defending the system. Do we at least know where the new council will be located? And, by the way, I'm going to address my colleague from Modern, who said that we don't know much about the media. Maybe we're not as familiar with the media as you are with playing games on your tablet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What's that supposed to mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u465	The question is asked by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your substantive questions. There were a lot of them, but do you really believe that this side will eventually answer any of them? [[No.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] Yeah, she never came, and that's what's gonna happen. [[Then get off the stand.]] This is the first reading, we're gonna have a second reading and we're gonna tap the bill. The PiS state does not only express its complete contempt for the Constitution by skipping its records by selecting the head of television, the former PiS apparatuser, but also does not comply with the provisions of the 2010 Council of Europe position on the non-binding of public media policy. Thus, the PiS state once again shows full contempt for the European institutions and the Polish Constitution. This cannot continue, and it seems to me that society should strongly protest by going to the street on May 7th. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u467	Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u468	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By way of the introduction of two sentences for one of the previous speakers, which has gone so far that he forgot to say that in 2005 only on one night PiS together with his coalitionists, LPR, Self-defense, did a media jump. And then what had already happened during our coalition, so the mass layoffs of journalists, were the layoffs of your CEOs, Mr Farfał I will remind you, so please tell the truth. [[Applause]] I listened very carefully to the applicants who were talking about it today... [[A friend of your friend Giertych, head of the institution...]] Have some water, because you're a little hurting the dry climate. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Sorry, that's the vibe.]] I think today you said very... [[Thanks for asking.]] Mr Marshal, I ask you very much to extend my time, because your Members do not allow me to say my point.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u469	But you're having a discussion with them, so I'm not prolonging time.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u470	You were talking today about getting public approval. I quote here for one of the applicants. Well, society has already shown you its disapproval. The ratings fall to the neck, i.e. the interest of advertisers is falling. If you're short of money, you're gonna jump on the money, and it's gonna be the money heist you promised you'd help. [[There are no better specialists in moneyjacking than you guys. Nobody's gonna beat you.]] I have no doubt that there is no reason for us to make up for your party media. It's just a scandal. The applicants talked about the independence of journalists and pluralism. Well, that sounds like a mockery in the mouth of Kurski's colleagues, who, thanks to his first staffing bill, took command and got rid of many journalists. The Minister comes here to speak and says that three people have been released. [[Why? Was he supposed to leave them?]] That's where they are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those other names... [[Voice from the Chamber: Time is up, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u471	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u472	...about which colleagues were talking? They're just gone. I'm saying... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[I didn't find out anything new.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u473	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Wiesław Krajewski, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u474	Thank you very much, Marshal, for blocking Members' statements. [[Voice from the room: Of course, but only the opposition.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u475	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three days have passed, six months have passed since the parliamentary elections. You can see that after this time you still do not understand that the Poles did not want you to rule 8 years... [[But they chose us twice.]] [[Blah, blah, blah.]] ...also by observing the public media in your performance. Now, let's get to the point. Today's package of media laws is another element of good change for Poles implemented by Law and Justice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Defend us, Lord, from a good change.]] The proposed draft laws on national media and audiovisual contributions are a breakthrough in the functioning and financing of public media so far. The proposed package of laws, on the one hand, clearly and transparently defines the tasks of national media institutions, their organisation and mode of action, financing and supervision, and, on the other hand, clarifies the effective financing of the public service mission of national media through flat-rate public tribute. Certainly, these draft laws are consistent and guarantee the good quality of the national media's future tasks set out in the Act, they have the financial resources provided. On the other hand, I have a question for applicants because voters, especially entrepreneurs, have some doubts. And I would ask you to answer that question. If an economic operator carries out business activities in several places, will it have to pay a fee for each measuring device or charge [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's gonna be one flat-rate...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u477	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u478	...for a single operator? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u479	Thank you very much. Now you are asking Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A small media bill has been in force since January and we can already see its effects. They're grieving. The changes in public media, mainly in the Polish Television, led to the crisis of these media and catastrophic decline in audiences, in particular as regards the ratings of Polish Television. Not paying attention to the effects of this so-called. a small media law, you have proposed - here I am talking to Members of the Law and Justice - another three laws, laws, underdeveloped projects, not consulted with social organisations. Directed by the desire to provide media, so-called. National media, funding, you want to impose an additional tax on Poles in the form of an audiovisual fee. [[The defense attorney found the oppressed.]] And the argument that it is only, just 15 zlotys, is very missed, because... [[That's right, you'd better take OFE.]] ...one natural person may appear several times as so-called. the final customer - and so you defined it in the Act - electricity if they are registered with it e.g. Three counters: at home, in an economic building... [[But it's already been done.]] ...or on the plot, and it has one TV... [[And you'll be foaming too.]] We're not foaming, we're just gonna keep asking questions until we get some answers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause you haven't given that answer yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u481	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u482	Why are you gonna... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u483	The question is asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: For now, put a reasonable question, at least one.]] [[Voice from the room: I think, Marshal, that you will be so...]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u484	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! PiS from almost the first days after the takeover of the government has accustomed us that instead of building a democratic state it creates a hybrid resembling something like a PRL, and specifically a PRL of PiS. [[Not good, not good, sir.]] In turn, the next spheres of public life are subject to one central authority. It is not the Prime Minister, the Government or the President. [[That's not funny.]] Everyone knows very well that the place where all decisions are made is the office of President Kaczyński in Nowogrodzka, where even the Prime Minister is having difficulty getting in lately. It's like a PRL, it's like a government, and it's known that he can only do what the First Secretary lets him do, and today the President of PiS. No wonder it was the turn to rebuild the radio committee, under one shining direction, not only the Polish Television and the Polish Radio, because you did it at the very beginning, directing the prodigal son... [[Don't read it, just say it without reading it.]] ... Jack Kurski as the political officer who made the purgatory, but also the press agency. [[Not good, not funny.]] The new radio committee will ensure not only the well-being of the president and his adjutants, but also the message of Poland seen through the eyes of the PiS activists according to the recommendation of the party propaganda. Today you can vote everything out, you have the majority, that's fine. Poland and Poles will survive this, just as they survived Peerelow propaganda. It probably annoys you that I am calling the Polish People's Republic, but it is difficult to behave differently, since the comrade Czabanski was involved in writing this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u485	The question is asked by Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, huge problems arise in the recovery of the rtv subscription from people who are over 75 years of age. If they do not report the fact that they have completed this age in person, they shall be prosecuted for arrears and shall be charged interest on an undue fee. How do applicants intend to solve this problem so as not to impose an additional obligation on people who are mostly ill and helpless? [[I mean, there's shut-downs.]] High Izbo! There are 5 million pensioners in Poland. Up to now, persons who have received a pension of up to 50% per month the average salary, were exempt from the charges. In the current project there is no provision to exempt this group of persons from these charges. Is this what family policy is supposed to be like, pro-social policy? [[You have to make up your mind.]] Do applicants intend to supplement the project with this provision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u487	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, is now asking the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u488	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! National media, that sounds proud and I'm willing to vote in favour of national media, but you have to ask yourself what these national media are like. How do I imagine national media? For example, it will be media in which you do not lie, that it will be media in which you respect your neighbor. [[That's how they're gonna be.]] That it would be the media where citizens will have something to say. [[That's how they're gonna be.]] Is that what they're gonna be Unfortunately, this is not the result of the project that you submitted, because we learn from the project that the media are supposed to disseminate pluralist... [[Voice from the room: Read it.]] [[We need to read it, sir.]] ...the political parties' positions. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you rule out civic movements... [[But you're not a party, so you don't have to worry.]] ... e.g. Our movement, Kukiz, 15, third strength in the Polish Sejm, you want to exclude from this debate in future, new media... [[You'll be with us in a minute.]] ...and you need to be clear here... [[You think we will. This is insolent, sir.]] ...to say, it's not gonna be national media, it's gonna be party media... [[You're the ones who would want to.]] Gentlemen, don't argue. I hope that this bill will be amended in committee so that... [[You're insolent.]] ...we will actually be able to talk about the adoption of a law on national media, not party media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u489	The question is asked by Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Distribution. 2 Act on audiovisual fee, Chapter Article 2 8, we can read very short, but for some important information. The monthly fee will be PLN 15. I would ask you to present some calculations, because in fact we do not know, and the justification for this also does not tell why it is exactly 15 PLN, why not 12 PLN, why not 20 PLN, why not 7 PLN. The rate of 15 PLN is given, there is no reference why it is thus calculated. Second question. Why, as tax collector, because it's a tax on PiS TV and PiS FM, did you choose power plants? It seems that, due to the quality of the programme offer, it would be more appropriate to include it in the trash charge. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Another question. If so far television has been able to function for PLN 750 million, then why does this new tax project include revenues of over PLN 2 billion? [[Have you enjoyed TV so far?]] 2100 million. In the context of compensation, Commissioner, can we expect any special effects in the Clan, or maybe Father Mateusz will help Minister Ziobro to eavesdrop on citizens? Thanks. [[Applause]] [[Oh, my God. Dramaticly low level.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u491	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have some good news for you from PiS: I will no longer bully you. That's enough. [[And God bless you, sir.]] Especially since both the Minister and the entire PiS are impregnated with criticism, even the most sensible criticism, there is no point in doing so. [[What a pity.]] But I have a question for you. Why, with several energy contracts signed, they have to pay you a few hundred zlotys to finance the tube... [[It didn't hit the poor guy.]] ...propaganda, which in communist times was called a very nice barker? To be honest, I don't have the slightest desire, especially since most Polish citizens do not watch writing TV, I watch other more interesting programs. [[What?]] I'll tell you what it is. [[What's that?]] One, two, three, Disney for children, Disney for children, these are really more interesting programs than what you're proposing. If I were to assess your actions and the propaganda you are presenting here, I would say that Urban's editor would lose his job for incompetence after two days, so that it could be said. The question is whether you have agreed on this audiovisual fee, pseudo, with the Energy Regulatory Office, because for the good of the matter it is an increase in electricity charges and this is the way it should be treated, because it has nothing to do with the audiovisual fee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u493	Mr Dominik Tarczyński, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u494	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Before I ask a question, I want to share my personal experience, because I listen to these, I'm sorry, idiots, and I can't stand it. I am a living example of how the Platform managed public media. In 2011 as a writer, the director won an international festival, 220 works from around the world. I receive the award and on the same day I receive my notice - I worked as the director of TVP Kielce - only because I was associated with the conservative environment. [[Applause]] So the basic question is, what are you afraid of in this bill? The fact that there will be no more triggers, there will be no Lisa, there will be no Tadla, will there not be Kraśka that there will be no access? You have friends on TVN, they're probably gonna help, and if they don't help, Grass is gonna get you some private media. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But you're very funny.]] [[And how brilliant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u495	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Polak, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A fatal policy towards the public media of the previous government, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party led to the fact that the financial situation was tragic, practically public media were in the previous period on the verge of bankruptcy, functioning. Let me remind you that last year there were 740 million PLN of revenue from the radio-television fee, and in the worst years there were probably more than 500 million. As a result, the implementation of the public media mission was clearly at risk and regional public television or public radio units were the most difficult. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether the new legislative arrangements contained in the package of these three laws in relation to regional public media will guarantee us the recovery of the situation in regional media, on regional television or on regional radio stations in such a way that the public mission carried out by these media in the field - a very important task for regional television and radio centres - is carried out in the way that it should be carried out and expected by local society. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u497	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Sylvester Khrushch, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During this debate, I had some insights. I don't want to duplicate many of the arguments we've already heard here. I think that applicants should take into account the fact that some adjustments are needed, as with other laws we have done, e.g. Windmill, Member. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But of course. [[And you have to discuss it, not like them, beat the foam.]] I see this main place, this is the charge, and when we say that power plants will charge these charges under electric charges, we should, as many people have said here, warn that there are no different abuses. There is scope to define if we are to give energy companies about 70 million, and we know that they are mainly or largely foreign companies, and we know that some people may not pay and therefore we as a country then take over all these court fees and so on. This is the weak point of this law and in the second, in the third reading, we should certainly clarify this. Here's a hot request for you. As far as I have seen a lot of energy here in the words of a colleague of Dominik Tarczyński, who has a lot of energy - such a law should be and went in the right direction - then when I hear Mr Piotr Kaleta's corrections, I apologize, I think it is not in such a way, with a different culture and, Mr Kalety, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not how it's supposed to be. Thank you. [[But it's specific.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u499	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs Anna Milczanowska, club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been listening to this discussion for hours. Many cynical words, full of ridicule, fell from the opposition, but also very substantive statements, for which we thank you very warmly. Are we ashamed of the word "national"? Several Members, especially from the Civic Platform, have in some ways criticised and asked why national media. Yeah, national media. We have many national institutions: national theatres, museums... [[Stadium.]] ...we have the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. And it was during your term of office, the last one, that something like a national propaganda lottery, a receipt, I apologize. [[Applause]] [[And you continue yours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, they are journalists, and we know this very well, and not politicians will be responsible for the quality of national media. [[With Kurski in charge.]] We focused mostly on TV here, and we know there's still a radio. And these national media will tell the truth based on values that shape our community, the Polish community. [[Applause]] [[Polish is ours too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u501	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, 180 PLN, so much according to the state of good change will be the charge, which is the funniest for the meter - 180 PLN. So many, and often many more pensioners in Poland spend on drugs. The question is: What made you start hating your own electorate? [[Oh, my God, the depth of that question is shocking.]] [[Money, money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u503	The question is asked by Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mrs Lichocka, in her introductory statement, rightly predicted this hypocrisy and the total lack of reflection of the opposition Members on the functioning of public media in their governments. Wojciech the King of the Platform compares something to martial law, but this martial law seems to know from the stories of your people of honor, such as Jaruzelski, Kiszczak. Michał Kaminski said something about the truth. You could say, he's spoken to authority. [[Applause]] Why didn't we watch TV? I'm going on? Because we didn't have the opportunity, we had to fight it out, and it took a while. And as I hear from the Modern Member about the moral spine, you can only smile, but bitter is a smile. Today's debate on the part of the opposition is simply weeping about the possibilities of using public media away from you for their own political and personal purposes. And in order to ask the question, what was the mission she was carrying out? TVP under PO and PSL governments? And two: And the RTV fee isn't legally valid today? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Please make it public so everyone can hear.]] [[Not all of them, just the ones with the TV.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u505	The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! I would like to ask whether, in the course of the work, the applicant takes into account the abolition of the charge on pre-payment meters. This could be quite a simplification here for those properties that are temporarily unused. These counters are quite simple to use, just like a prepaid card. I would ask that this be included in further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u507	Thank you. The question is asked by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have an audio-visual fee, and I think that the Pole can. The generator unit... [[And she already figured it out.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...a solar collector for the savers, for the romantic - candle... [[Yes, sir. Where's the modernity?]] ...for modern photovoltaics, we'll be economical. [[There'll be more 500+.]] [[Geothermia.]] Or geothermals. We can keep going like this. [[Voice from the room: It's only in Toruń.]] [[But it won't be paid by Father Rydzyk.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what exactly are you trying to achieve? [[You should have listened, Madam, to the representatives of the applicants.]] Do you really want to own the media, or do you just want to create a sense of creativity in people at all costs? Because you force it on those who think. They're gonna create, they're gonna play tricks, and a Pole can. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u509	The question is asked by Barbara Dziuk, a club called Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The national media, which all Poles are waiting for - the subscription fee currently amounts to PLN 22.7 for those who pay, and in the bill we process, there will be PLN 15, and this is already saving. The legal act is returning to us public media, national media. They are to fulfil the mission, promote and promote everything Polish, teach history, promote Polish trade, Polish economy, Polish values, which the opposition seems to have forgotten. The media in Poland are to act as it happens in every normal country. Here's a question. Minister, what is the comparison of the Polish media with the media of the countries of the European Union today? Is it true that 80% media in Poland is in the hands of strangers? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] We came out, ladies and gentlemen, comparing Polish media with foreign media... We really need to be equal, and this bill will give us that. It hurts the opposition that the Poles wanted to change and expressed it in the elections in autumn. There's been a so-called one. Checking and inflating PR [[♪ The bell ♪]] And what the Platform was showing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Is it over? [[It's gone, it's gone.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u511	Thank you very much, Member, thank you very much. Now you're asking Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why members of the group, who have made a leap to PLN 154 billion in citizens' savings in the OFE over the past 8 years, have eliminated the online relief... [[What about the SKOKs?]] [[He's made $4 billion!]] ...limited the ability of creators to deduct costs, froze tax thresholds, revenue costs and tax-free amounts, which, in view of the increase in inflation, increased the burden of citizens and took 20 billion PLN from the Demographic Reserve Fund... [[Or maybe not from a card, my fellow Member?]] The members of this group are now screaming from the Parliament's pulpit... [[They're talking.]] ...on imposing a racket on citizens in the form of an audiovisual fee, notabene lower by a few zlotys than currently in force. High Izbo! Why members of a group whose prominent representatives squandered PLN 1.5 billion in a state-owned company which was supposedly involved in the construction of a nuclear power plant, and after the squander of PLN 1.5 billion did not even indicate the location, [[Applause]] Members of the group, whose prominent you will present, have been stuffed with octopus and beef cheeks in snobbish restaurants... [[Applause]] [[That's ridiculous.]] ...screaming from the Seym's pulpit... [[Mrs. Anna...]] ...about the need for a cost-effective use of public money? Guess you guys are finally eating or having cognitive dissonants. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, how beautiful...]] High Izbo! Why members of a group whose member of the authorities is a close collaborator of the so-called. The manager, he was plotting at night by the dumpster with the owner of the newspaper.Rzeczpospolita... about the release of four journalists of this newspaper... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u513	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u514	...and the last time we find out, he's got his fingers... [[Time's up.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and you scumbags say that? [[Let's go!]] Get down on the ground.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u515	Thank you very much, Member. The question is asked by Mr Ireneusz Oda, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Conscience!]] [[You guys are crazy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that I have mixed feelings about this bill or a few laws. On the one hand, I must say that it is important to express satisfaction and satisfaction that national media are being created. As a patriot, I commend and hope it will be a good change. I would like to give an example, very scandalous in my opinion, of a situation that has happened in a historically difficult moment for our country. Namely, I will mention here, as we recently celebrated the anniversary of the Smoleńsk catastrophe and journalist Piotr Kraśko organized such a fantastic propaganda campaign, bought in Smoleńsk a lot of candles, flowers and organized an action that would make us very grateful to the people of Smoleńsk who honored the memory of our president. But in order for it not to be so one-sided... I mean, I have to say, I hope there won't be a situation like this in the national media. But in order not to be so unilateral, I also wanted to point out that there are some gaps or disturbing entries in this bill. Namely, on behalf of the environment of farmers who run family farms, I wanted to ask how much the farmer will pay, who has several meters on the farm, electric meters, and this is the counter forcefully, in the apartment, still in the barn. How much is he gonna pay, what's he gonna pay, and what's he gonna pay the company that's got... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u517	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u518	...a few meters... [[Voice from the room: One.]] ...a few TVs, a few radios? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u519	The question is asked by Mr Piotr Kalet, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u520	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sometimes I think, listening to your statements here, that maybe I should use the time that I have, for about 1.5 minutes, to keep quiet, because silence is also an act of opposition or an expression of rebellion against what you are saying. [[Please.]] [[That's the kind of thing that's happened before.]] But the word goes better, at least it should go to imagination, and I hope those words I'm going to say... [[It's better to keep quiet sometimes.]] ...they'll be in your imagination, too. Sometimes you can just have that hope, too. Ladies and gentlemen, one at a time. Mr Cimoszewicz was expecting... [[Censor! You're not the minister!]] ...answer questions. He's not here. So you're just asking questions that you don't want to get an answer to. 'Cause here with the Minister, we were counting... [[Are you responsible for the minister?]] ...that maybe three questions were substantive, the rest - the voice in the discussion more or less logical. [[What are you, a reviewer? What is it now?]] [[Minister, we must summon a Member.]] Modern, ladies and gentlemen, she read a list of names that we thought... She said they were the names of people who were released from television. [[Right hand?]] I felt literally like there was a recall call - a tone of saying that someone had been fired. [[That's right, because these people have serious problems.]] Ladies and gentlemen, think a little about what you're doing. [[You think what you're saying.]] Mr Dworak was gracious to say that the bill could be a certain political consensus. And where was this consensus, how did you draw up the previous law? [[You had a question, not a review.]] And finally, Kukiz, because here one of the gentlemen spoke at my address, said that my comments are sometimes malicious or maybe rude in some way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[They are.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u521	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u522	You want me to quote Pavel Kukiz? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u523	The question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u524	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In fact, the jump to the SKOK was just a jump to PLN 4 billion and I'd like to know... You defended yourself against the draft deposit guarantee law and here 4 billion PLN. For PLN 100 million paid, 4 billion paid. [[Voice from the room: About the bill, not about the SKOKs.]] It was a jump and it's a jump. [[Warrant.]] And the next case is censorship. Nobody's afraid of national media, everyone's afraid of censorship. [[You guys were the best.]] Censored movie "Ida. " Did you have to? Do you think Poles can't understand themselves? I wanted to ask you if you seriously believe that Mr Czabański may have made a promise. After all, Minister Czabański cannot conduct any consultations because the project is in the Sejm and is the property of the Sejm. It's up to us what they look like and if there's a consultation. [[Not from us, but from the guidelines from Nowogrodzka.]] I'm sure you won't agree to that. The media jumps were three days, two days and one nights. Circumvention of the Constitution. The state specializes in this. What is the National Media Council? Bypassing the Constitution and showing: National Radio and Television Council out. You'll see that next year, with the state budget, you'll say, "Why pay them?" [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u525	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u526	So I just wanted to ask you, in the workplace... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...because there will be 10 charges from 10 meters, and the employees will not work...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u527	The question is asked by Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz club15. You're welcome, sir. Thank you, Commissioner, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u528	One word.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u529	But beyond time and beyond protocol.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u530	I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u531	Madame, please don't take the floor. [[Let him talk.]] Your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u532	...just watch TV. I'll make a statement in writing. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u533	You're welcome. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Media is, media is, media is, media is. What's the real media? Have you considered what the media really is? The media are people, these are editors, camera operators, sound engineers, journalists. And these people need money to live and to support their families and to do their job honestly. Today, the situation in public media is that when a young journalist comes to work, comes to work full of rage, after college, he will speak the truth, he will present the reality as he is, not as someone tells him. He earns a few hundred zlotys in the trash can, suddenly there is a regional grant, a Marshal grant for 30 and 40 thousand. zł, promotes voivodship, but will no longer harm the marshal or the voivodship. Here, the most important thing now is for journalists to be able to talk about the reality that surrounds us. And the most important thing is to give them the means to talk. It's not about that, because the bill doesn't say anything about it. You have to secure money for payouts, employment contracts, so these people aren't afraid to talk about reality. This is the most important thing - not what function these media are supposed to perform, but who is to do it and what it is to do so that these people are not manipulated. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u535	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u536	And Mr Peter Kalet... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Okay, thank you. [[Come on, tell me.]] I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u537	The question is asked by Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, speaking of national media or speaking of public media, we are always - and always will - sensitive to political activity. Today, public media, public television is managed by political apparatuser Jacek Kurski, and this is definitely the case. It's not an insult. This is a party activist who said that because he knows politics, he'll know what it means to depoliticize the media. A representative of the applicants - an active politician, a Member who has also had the pleasure of being the head of the national council in her professional history, which... Within 24 hours, you changed the bill in 2006. One of the representatives of the governing club, the governing coalition - also an active, once engaged journalist. So political activity trumps here. So let's not shed crocodile tears, pursue your politics, and you have of course as the majority of the right to do so, [[Applause]] But not in the way that you own individual institutions of the state, just like you do with IPN or TV. I have a very specific question to the Minister: Why 15 zlotys, from what? [[One more.]] Every business, as you write it, you write goals and they're realized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a way that translates into...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u539	Thank you very much, sir. Now the question is asked by Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u540	Tell me why 15 zlotys. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u541	... Lydia Gądek from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Prime Minister's memorable electoral briefcase was supposed to be full of good, ready to implement the laws. And after six months, it turns out that it was just a dummy of substance preparation, just as it turns out that this government is also a kind of dummy. Today, all the most important areas of the social life of Poles are demoted by the introductions of parliamentary bill projects. Why? That's why, to avoid public consultation. Why are you so afraid of public opinion or are you just ignoring it? I know it's a rhetorical question. You said in the campaign that you would listen to the public. So today ask the Poles what I am asking the Minister - what they think about this bill. What do young people who don't have TVs think they don't have it in their plan and have no intention or need to use it? What do seniors and severely disabled people, who today are exempt from the audiovisual fee, get a pension increase of on average PLN 2 gross, maybe they get some free medicines, on average PLN 8 per senior, but we take 15 zlotys per month for a fee? Ask them to consult on this. What about the counters in the churches, the village halls, the community halls, the brothels and other public institutions? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[They'll be fired.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u543	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members and Dear Members of the Applicant! It's an audio-visual contribution. Who gave you that frog? Do you not see how unjust the tribute is? And let us not be excused here by some translations, quoting without understanding the article. 21. Imagine this: there's a retired marriage that doesn't exceed 75 years of age. He has a plot outside his city or, in accordance with Art. 3 (1) (a) 1, if this is a larger city, outside of its district, and will pay an additional PLN 180 per year for a collection point that does not meet the word "extra." So together these landowners, let's call them retired people who worked for years to get a cut, they'll pay 360 zlotys a year. Where's the justice? And according to the same law, a company that has a fleet of 70 cars, where every car has a radio, will pay 15 PLN because it has one meter. Where's justice? This is not a fair tribute. Think about it again. It's just my suggestion as a person who comes into contact with a marriage like this because these people live next door to me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u545	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u546	...they still have a little grocery store. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u547	The question is asked by Mr Józef Lasota, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u548	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have three questions, very specific. One to the representatives of the applicants, to this part of the members of the governing group. I'm just wondering, listening to a variety of discussions, these different outbursts, how deep you have to be stung by the PiS to try to push the public so dark that it's, right, a recovery bill when it comes to the tribunal that it's national media. Where's this coming from? Because I don't think they're all stung yet, to the end. The second question is this. Well, a few days ago, the honourable President, your president, said, quote: If national media are to influence society, then they must be watched. They have to be watched. That's the problem we're facing. [[It's out of context.]] A question for the Minister. Will this bill ensure that society will have to watch your PiS TV? Not national, PiS-owska, because national would be good. And the third question, also to the Minister. I think Mr Dworak asked the question directly to the Minister whether those who are behind this bill today are planning to take up their positions. Why did the Minister blush then and cover his face with nothing to answer? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u549	The question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u550	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Today, the radio-television subscription actually pays 8% Poles, very few. This translates into only 20% of the television budget, and the rest comes from advertising. Instead of encouraging advertisers with good ratings, as is usually the case in a civilized country, you want to force Poles to pay. Polish Television under Jack Kurski's authority recorded the weakest result of ratings in history, but PiS does not care about the decrease in ratings, because the losses will be covered by the money drawn from electricity consumers. The audiovisual contribution will be paid by everyone, even those who don't own a TV, but pay for electricity. It's a little short of justice that the Law and Justice are so proud of. A person living in a studio will pay the same amount as a large family with several TVs. But what about people who have more than one meter have a house, a garage that is a separate mortgage, a hair salon? Will they pay more? What about those who have already paid for their radio-television subscription for the whole year in advance? However, you foresee reliefs for older people who watch TV statistically 6.5 hour a day. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u551	Thank you. [[Kinga's the best at taking pictures.]] Now you're asking Piotr Apel, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The adoption of the media law according to the Member of the applicant is a sacred duty of Polish patriots. I have a question: Is downloading more than 2 billion from Poles' pockets also a sacred duty of Polish patriots? Here I'm asking you about the money you came up with. I understand that Kukiz.15, that's why 15 PLN. I'm pretty sure all the guys at the club are gonna agree to change their name and make sure there's some lower amount, so that the retirees don't pay, like now, those... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: Kukiz]] ...poor pensioners before the age of 75, just as they don't have to pay a subscription now, so they don't have to pay later either, because according to your project, unfortunately, they will pay. Retired by the age of 75, poor pensioners who were fired now will pay unfortunately. And the question is, do you want to do something about it, or do you want to leave it the way it is? This is 180 PLN per year, which is as much as they usually spend very often, how much money they have for food. I am saddened by this statement - and I have a question here for Mr Suski, who was gracious to say that this is a minimum amount. That's not a minimum amount. Let Mr Suski look into the eyes of the people who have to live for these amounts. Get down on the ground and think of the people, and stop thinking about yourselves and your party and your ideology that you want to put on TV. [[About your propaganda.]] Really, pity. [[Applause]] [[Please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u553	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka, club Law and Justice. I don't see a Member. Mr Leszek Galemba, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Last one! Last one!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Isn't it our duty to facilitate the creation of national media that will deliver to Poles... [[Not for that kind of money.]] ...reliable information that will preserve... [[Do you believe that?]] ...national community, enrich the historical awareness of our homeland, show the value of family life... [[He's lying! That's not true!]] ...and work to strengthen the family, support the development of the young generation and protect the children... [[Didn't it work?]] ...and young people before demoralization? Did the opposition, from the PSL we heard, to the Platform... [[Thank you.]] ...all he has to do is scare the Poles that... [[No.]] ...they're gonna have to pay a subscription even from the garage? I just heard that. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 21 is clearly written - they will not have to pay. Answer... [[From the meter.]] ...is clear - they won't. We'll pay from the household where we live. [[What about the garage?]] Poles expect [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a good change in public media. We must rebuild the Polish community, even though there are differences between us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[No censorship.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u555	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Czabański will now speak at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. The Minister wants to speak? Not really. Yeah, it is. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When you're done with your fellow Members, then... I'm sorry, no, no, I just... [[This is a very substantive conversation.]] I'm sure you do. I don't doubt that. I'm not going to refer to the parliamentary theater because it's the rules of art. If we're gonna talk in substance, let's talk in substance. We're open to attention. I conducted various conversations and consultations with different environments - here I refer to the voices that fell - I presented the principles of this law, I listened to the expectations of these environments, so it is not that it happened in voidness. And the project was initiated by a group of Members, also with my participation, and then I was a candidate for Members last summer and that is why it is a parliamentary project - it was invented by five Members present, then it was three Members. [[Oh, yeah, it doesn't add up.]] Please? Yeah, he's holding on, that's reality. If you don't like it, I'm not gonna change reality. That was the genesis of the project, that's how it happened. [[System's supposed to be government.]] Mrs Lichocka, Mrs Kruk, Mrs Bubula, Mr Sellin and I, we have initiated work on this law... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Please? [[We have five members of the National Media Council.]] Madame, you are very...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u557	Minister, don't discuss this with the Members, just make your speech. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: ...simplifies political reality, but let's leave it. [[How much was I wrong?]] [[One.]] It's just that this idea was parliamentary, it's parliamentary, and that's why the project is parliamentary, but that doesn't mean there's no consultation, there's no consultation, there's no consultation, and there won't be. They were, they are, and they will, and there will be a public hearing. You will be surprised, but there will be a public hearing on this matter. [[Applause]] So I'm asking you to take this seriously. Now for the money, this contribution, ladies and gentlemen. There is no Mrs PSL here, which has been very active today. [[Angelics.]] That's too bad, 'cause I'd remind her of what she said in 2011... [[I'll tell her. I'll pass it on.]] ...then the leader of her group, who, in order to save public media from financial collapse, proposed the introduction of a contribution related to the electricity charge, i.e., you can say, it was a PSL idea. Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Thank you for admitting it.]] Now the State of the Civic Platform... I'm not gonna go into the past anymore. There was a financial meltdown, and this is where the applicants said why it happened. This is your responsibility and your PSL, mostly yours. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. There's a crash, we have to save the media. You are proposing in the latest project you have submitted to the Sejm a fee from the budget for these media. Excuse me, isn't this money from the citizens' pockets? The budget's coming out of the air? [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] After all, you offer the same fee from the citizens' money. [[Then why do it twice? From the budget.]] But you're proposing this fee in a worse form, government-dependent form. Do you want the government you don't like to decide how much money goes to the media, or do you want citizens to decide how much money goes to the media? Should the media be independent of the government also financially? [[It's a tribute. A citizen has to.]] Yes, they are also to be financially independent. [[A citizen has no choice.]] That's where independence starts at all. That's how it's built. [[Applause]] As far as other matters are concerned, I understand that comments and proposals for amendments will be submitted to the Committee on Culture or other meetings. Any amendment that this proposal will improve - I apologise for the amendment - will be very welcome. The point is to rebuild these media software, organizationally and financially, [[Applause]] rebuild what you've destroyed. And that's all we want to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Oh, my God.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Are the representatives of the applicants... Mrs Barbara Bubula, please. [[Encore!]] [[A piss, not an encore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u558	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Literally in a few sentences, I will try to summarize the answers to many of the questions that have been asked here, those which contain substantive suggestions or concern about the substance of this law. Of course, in the course of the work in committee, in the subcommittee, we will have the opportunity to make very important adjustments to this project and for some suggestions that have already been made here from the stand, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council for the very thorough conversion of all projects and the various legal aspects. On the other hand, I would strongly like to highlight a number of general issues which have emerged in a very large number of questions. Firstly, concern for the future of these media and for modern forms of contact with viewers in a situation where fewer and fewer people use traditional radio and television. It is not true that fewer and fewer people use traditional media. In the latest report of the National Radio and Television Council and in information... [[The weakest TV ratings.]] ...which will soon be presented to the High House by the national council, there are data that tells us that when it comes to the audience of traditional television and listening to radio in various forms by Poles, we are still at the forefront not only of European countries but also of many worlds when it comes to the use of traditional media. On the other hand, this law provides for the use by national media of modern forms of contact with viewers, the construction of podcasting forms, the use of Internet forms of communication, hybrid television, video on demand, from a platform which does not have Polish Television, and should have a platform for access to modern technologies, also a rich archive and a rich video resource, which already has jumping increases in ratings. If you see also in this report of the National Radio and Television Council, what are the levels of viewing or visiting of the video service at the request of the Polish Television, then there increases are a few percent compared to previous years and this is really the top of video services on demand and it will probably be even closer to the top in the future. So that this law certainly does not forget the state-of-the-art technologies. Here I'm going back to the topic of why a common contribution if someone doesn't have a TV or uses these forms of access to the media. It is precisely this, that, with modern technologies and opportunities to build access to various types of content, both in Polish Radio and in Polish Press Agency, as well as in regional radio and television stations, the use of these different forms of access with modern technologies makes it no longer appropriate to use the old principle that anyone who owns a TV or radio receiver is obliged to pay a radio and television fee or audiovisual contribution. No, it was just that this universal fee was a kind of citizen's share, actually of households... Here I want to correct these very messy calculations, which some opposition Members have shown that this is a burden on the citizen. No, these are tributes that are intended for the household. [[What about hospitals?]] And they, these proposed by us, are a few dozen percent lower than what is now a compulsory tribute in the form of a radio-television subscription. And finally another element that is worth recalling. Well, ladies and gentlemen, for many years I have been in contact with this data myself, since 2007, when I was a member of the National Radio and Television Council. Very worrying statistics on the share of public funds in the financing of public media in our country are highlighted in relation to all possible European countries. [[There won't be a commercial.]] This is the share of GDP, so the level of public involvement in funding media independence is important, this share, according to different methodologies, of various surveys in our country is about 0.3 promila of GDP, very low in relation to the economically developed European countries of our GDP, and in Germany within 3 promili, i.e. 10 times more than their GDP, in absolute numbers at our 700 million there is 7 billion euros. As far as the English are concerned, about £5 billion for their public, national media. So that we compare ourselves to these democracies and to the share of public funding in GDP, and then let's talk about a level that allows for a good implementation of public media missions. What you ridiculously call propaganda tax is essentially a tax, a fee, a tribute or a contribution to finance the program content of these media, because the costs of functioning of the Polish Radio... Here you are very deeply insulting all reliable journalists and radio and television creators in all regional centres, in all regional radio stations, when you talk about this... [[You're talking.]] ...that on Polish Television, when you talk about propaganda tube. There is a huge crowd, a huge ninety percent part of the content that is neither information nor publicist. This is production related to social, cultural, children's programmes, documentary films, including various elements of entertainment and sport, which is also funded through a public mission and will have the chance to have safe financing under this new system for the first time. So far there has been no bold and strong political will to introduce such a thorough reform that such safe funding for the future would provide. And finally, one last thing, important in all of this. Our law introduces an element that provides the possibility to determine the high funding of regional media, which determines the percentage of production in non-Warsaw centres of Polish Television. This is the answer to many of the doubts and questions raised here. If necessary, we will include regional centres in the bill so that there is no sense of danger that someone wants to limit the scope of their actions. Finally, we want radio and television production to take place in a wide range in Krakow, Łódź, Wrocław, Poznań, Gdańsk, Lublin or other well-equipped centres in which people are properly prepared, capable of technical equipment, and finally this production will be simply cheaper, and will also take into account the specificities of particular regions. So many short summaries of the entire team of questions put forward here, all suggestions for a fairer determination, both as regards the National Media Act and the Fee Act, about the audiovisual contribution, will certainly be thoroughly considered in the committees. Thank you very much for the positive conclusions on this issue and for all the votes in which the crucial importance of our project is highlighted. I am very pleased that this first reading has finally taken place, and I hope that this historic law will be passed within a reasonable time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u559	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft laws contained in prints 442, 443 and 444 at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services (print No 408). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Stanisław Swed to present a draft bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services contained in print no. 408. First of all, I would like to explain how the question of posting workers in the framework of the provision of services is regulated in the current legislation. Such provisions are included, in particular, in the Labour Code and the Law on State Labour Inspection and are the implementation of the provisions of Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services in our legal order. I will further refer to this Directive as being fundamental in contrast to Directive 2014/67/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, the purpose of which is to enforce the Basic Directive and which is referred to as the Implementation Directive. The proposed law is precisely intended to implement the Implementation Directive, which should take place by 18 June 2016. The provisions of the basic Directive shall apply in three cases. First, when an undertaking delegates its employees to the territory of another Member State for the purpose of temporarily carrying out work related to the performance of the contract that that undertaking has concluded with the recipient of services operating in a delegated State. Secondly, when an undertaking delegates its employees to an establishment or an undertaking belonging to a group of undertakings in the territory of another Member State. Third, where temporary staff are both posted workers in the territory of another Member State and provide work to an undertaking established or operating in the territory of another Member State. In all cases, there must be an employment relationship between the posting undertaking or agency and posted workers in another Member State during the period of posting. The basic Directive lays down employment standards for posted workers who provide work in another Member State. Such regulations are currently included in the provisions of the Labour Code. The basic Directive also requires Member States to designate one or more liaison offices or other competent national authorities for administrative cooperation with their counterparts in other Member States. This is currently the role of the State Labour Inspection. The basic Directive also provides that a posted worker in the territory of another Member State should have the right to exercise his rights in the courts of that Member State relating to the conditions of work and employment guaranteed by that Directive. Such standards are currently contained in the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The drafting and submission of a proposal for a law on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services to the High House has become necessary because of the implementation directive I have already mentioned. Let me remind you that its provisions should be implemented in the national legal order by 18 June 2016. The purpose of the Implementation Directive is to ensure that the appropriate level of protection of posted workers laid down in the Basic Directive is respected. The proposed law therefore contains solutions for both the basic directive and the implementation directive, thus creating a comprehensive regulation relating to the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. At the same time, they should facilitate the exercise of the freedom to provide services by the service provider and promote fair competition and thus support the functioning of the internal market. I will now come to the discussion of the scope of the proposed law, as well as the presentation of the basic solutions contained in it. First of all, I would like to explain that the proposed bill contains definitions of the terms used in it. This should ensure greater transparency and readability of the proposed regulation. I would like to pay particular attention to the definition of an employer posting an employee from the territory of the Republic of Poland and the definition of a posted worker from the territory of our country. In both cases, a worker is referred to within the meaning of the law of the country to which the posting takes place. A person who is not an employee within the meaning of the Labour Code may be an employee within the meaning of the law of the State to which he will be sent. Thus, such a person will be covered by the provisions of the Basic and Implementation Directive, which will be in practice, for example. means the obligation to provide such a person with certain employment conditions in force in the country to which he will be posted, even though in the light of Polish legislation he will not be an employee, but for example. A contractor. As regards the subjective scope of the proposed law, it is assumed that the law will not apply to merchant navy companies in respect of crews on merchant ships, which is in accordance with Article. 2 (2) 1 the basic Directive and international transport because of the specific nature of the operations carried out in such transport. On the other hand, cabotage will be an exception to which the proposed law will apply, but to a limited extent due to the specificities of such services. The information relates to this scope of the Act I will start by presenting the obligations of employers posting workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland. There are three kinds of responsibilities. Firstly, these are information and administrative obligations related to the intention of posting workers in our country and the temporary performance of such workers in that territory. In this respect, the proposed law obliges the employer, firstly, to designate a person to mediate with the State Labour Inspection and to send and receive documents or notices. Such person will have to reside in the territory of the Republic of Poland during the period of posting. Secondly, the transmission of the State Labour Inspection at its request to the person authorised to represent the employer during the inspection carried out by the State Labour Inspection. Thirdly, notification of the State Labour Inspection of the intention of posting workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland. The relevant statement in this case will contain a number of information detailed in the proposed law. The employer will also inform the State Labour Inspection of any change in the identity of the employer, the contact person with the State Labour Inspection and the place where the employee records are kept, as well as the basic data identifying the user's employer if posted workers do their job for him. Fourthly, the storage during the period of posting of basic documents relating to posted workers, including copies of contracts of employment or other equivalent documents certifying the conditions of employment of posted workers, the working time documentation on the start and end of work and the number of hours worked, as well as documents relating to the amount of remuneration, deductions from that remuneration and evidence of the payment of remuneration of employees. Fifthly, the provision of the State Labour Inspection at its request of the above documents during the period of posting and their translation into Polish. Delivery of the State Labour Inspection at its request of the above documents or translation into Polish after the end of the posting, but for a period of not more than 2 years. As regards other obligations relating to the provision of certain conditions of employment for posted workers in Poland, the law contains the following solutions. It contains the regulations currently contained in the Labour Code, making the necessary corrections and clarifications in order to achieve full consistency with the provisions of the Basic Directive. It introduces the principle of joint and several liability for certain outstanding debts owed to a posted worker on the territory of the Republic of Poland who provides work related to construction works or maintenance of a building. It will be jointly and severally responsible for the outstanding minimum remuneration, as well as the outstanding remuneration and overtime allowance, the employer posting the worker to our country and the entity entrusting such an employer with the execution of works related to the construction work or maintenance of the building. However, the entrusted entity will be able, under certain conditions, to be free of liability. As regards further control obligations which the State Labour Inspection will be required to carry out at the request of the competent authority and other Member States, in this respect, at the request of the State Labour Inspection, the employer or the person acting on his behalf will be required to provide information, documents or declarations on matters relating to the posting of workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland. Turning to the provisions of the proposed law on the rights and obligations of the State Labour Inspection, which will perform the duties of the competent authority within the meaning of the Implementation Directive, I would like to thank all the representatives of the inspection, who have been very involved in the drafting of the proposed act. I particularly thank the Chief Labour Inspector for his favour and understanding of the role of the State Labour Inspection in the proposed law. The tasks assigned to the State Labour Inspection will serve to achieve the overarching objective of implementing the Implementation Directive into the Polish legal order. Therefore, their implementation should contribute to promoting fair competition and promoting the functioning of the internal market. The National Labour Inspection will carry out five types of tasks. Firstly, it will be information tasks carried out, so far, by providing, at the request of the interested party, information on the conditions of employment of posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as in the new formula, i.e. by maintaining and updating a dedicated website. This website will contain all information useful for the practical application of the provisions relating to the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. In addition to information on legal regulations in this area, it also contains contact details of the person responsible for providing information on employment conditions guaranteed to posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as on the entities responsible for providing information on national law and practice on the rights and obligations of employers posting workers to the territory of the Republic of Poland and on the rights and obligations of such workers. In addition, an auxiliary model of the statement to be made by an employer wishing to delegate workers to the territory of the Republic of Poland will be provided on the website. Secondly, the State Labour Inspection in the framework of information cooperation with the competent authorities of other Member States will inform those authorities of: (a) the conditions of employment of posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland, (b) irregularities detected relating to the posting of workers in or from the territory of the Republic of Poland, as well as offences committed by the employer of the posting of a worker in our territory or by the employer of the posting of a worker from the territory of our country, (c) the posting of workers within or from the territory of the Republic of Poland in response to the reasoned requests of those bodies. The preparation of responses to reasoned requests from the competent authorities of other Member States will require the State Labour Inspection to cooperate, inter alia. with employers posting an employee from the territory of the Republic of Poland, the Social Insurance Institution, the heads of tax offices and other public administrations. In view of the need to respond to a reasoned request within 25 working days of receipt, the draft law provides that the cooperating entities will be required to provide information on their activities within a time limit allowing inspection to prepare a summary response. At the same time, in urgent cases involving the provision of information contained in national registers, the National Labour Inspection will provide replies within 2 working days. Thirdly, the State Labour Inspection will have the right to carry out checks on the posting of workers. In this respect, the proposed law entitles inspection to check the regularity of posting of workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland, when there are doubts as to whether the worker concerned can be regarded as a posted worker in the territory of our country. Such control may concern two aspects: firstly, whether an employer posting an employee on the territory of the Republic of Poland actually carries out significant activities in the territory of another Member State, other than management or administrative activities of a purely internal nature; secondly, whether a worker seconded to the territory of the Republic of Poland carries out his work in that territory It's only temporary. At the same time, the proposed law gives an example of what issues should be taken into account when assessing the regularity of posting. The State Labour Inspection will also be able, using all the legal resources it has, to control the conditions of employment of posted workers in our country. Fourthly, the proposed law provides for significant powers for the State Labour Inspection in the field of labour court proceedings and in the enforcement of criminal liability from an employer posting an employee to our country or from such territory in the event of a breach of certain provisions of the proposed law. Thus, labour inspectors will have the right to bring an action before the labour court to determine the law applicable to the employment relationship between the worker and his employer if it is established that the worker concerned cannot be regarded as a posted worker in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The State Labour Inspection will be able to make such findings, for example. in the course of checking the regularity of posting of workers on the territory of the Republic of Poland, when he finds that such a worker is working continuously in Poland and not only temporarily. The proposed law also grants the State Labour Inspection powers of a public prosecutor in cases of misconduct set out in the Act. Penalizations will be subject to violation of certain obligations by the employer of the posting of a worker on the territory of the Republic of Poland related to notification of the intention of posting workers to Poland, as well as the course of work carried out by the employee on our territory. Fifthly, the State Labour Inspection in the framework of cooperation on cross-border enforcement of administrative fines or administrative fines will undertake, at the request of the applicant authority, activities related to: 1. notify the employer of the posting of a worker from the territory of the Republic of Poland of the decision to impose an administrative penalty or administrative fine on him in respect of a breach of the provisions on posting of workers, 2. with notification to such an employer of the application for the execution of such a penalty or fine. I would like to pay a little more attention to these tasks. Regulation on cross-border enforcement of administrative fines or administrative fines is intended to effectively and rapidly implement decisions or decisions imposing such penalties or fines on employers posting workers to another Member State where they breach the obligations relating to posting. As I have already mentioned, in this respect, the State Labour Inspection will carry out two kinds of tasks. First, it will be the activities related to notifying the employer of the posting of a worker from the territory of the Republic of Poland of a decision on the imposition of an administrative penalty or administrative fine on him. We propose that, in the event of such a request, the State Labour Inspection take all necessary steps to notify the employer without undue delay of the decision to impose an administrative penalty or administrative fine on him. Such notification should take place no later than one month after receipt of the request from the applicant authority. The State Labour Inspection, after checking whether the application for notification complies with the formal requirements, whether it contains information corresponding to the content of the decision imposing the fine, and whether the documents indicated in the application have been attached thereto, shall forward to the employer a decision imposing a fine or fine on it and the documents accompanying it. On the other hand, if the application does not comply with the formal requirements, the inspection shall return the application to the applicant authority. Secondly, it will be the enforcement of an administrative penalty or administrative fine imposed on the employer of the posting of a worker from the territory of the Republic of Poland. In this respect, the proposed law divides the tasks between the State Labour Inspection and the heads of tax offices. The labour inspection will carry out all activities prior to the transfer of the application for enforcement to the head of the tax office, while the enforcement of the amounts due will be carried out by the competent enforcement authorities, i.e. by the chiefs of the IRS. It will therefore be the task of the State Labour Inspection to check the application formally and to determine whether it contains any information relating to the imposition of a penalty or fine, in particular whether a decision or decision has been served on the party in this case and that such a decision or decision is no longer subject to further appeal. Cross-border enforcement of administrative fines or administrative fines may only concern cases of final decisions or decisions. Therefore, if the application is complete, the State Labour Inspection shall notify the employer no later than one month after receipt of the application. A positively verified application, together with the implementing title attached thereto, will also be handed over to the head of the tax office, unless the debtor has previously made a voluntary payment. On the other hand, if the proposal does not meet the formal requirements or does not contain the necessary information, the labour inspection will return the application to the applicant authority. The State Labour Inspection will be able to return the application if the overall amount of the penalty or fine is less than EUR 350 and if the decision to impose a penalty or fine is contrary to the fundamental principles of the legal order of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We also provide for regulations to suspend or suspend cross-border enforcement of fines or administrative fines. This will apply to cases where an interested party makes use of exceptional measures to amend final decisions or decisions on the imposition of such a penalty or fine before the authority of the State in which such a penalty or fine is imposed. The State Labour Inspection will be the creditor of the charges in question. That is why we are proposing provisions that will make it easier to fulfil this role. These are changes in the provisions of the Enforcement Act in the administration. As a creditor, the State Labour Inspection will be able, in some situations, to waive the cash claims sought by applying the relevant provisions of the Public Finance Act. It will also be possible, at the debtor's request, to postpone the repayment of all or part of the receivable or to spread the payment of all or part of the receivable into instalments. In accordance with the Implementation Directive, the enforced debts will constitute revenue for the State budget. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the draft Posting of Workers Act be submitted in the framework of the provision of services, contained in print No. 408, for further work in the Sejm committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u561	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item he would listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Kopcińska from the Law and Justice Club will be the first to speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the presented bill in print no. 408. The draft law, submitted by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services adopted by the Council of Ministers, introduces into the Polish legal order solutions resulting from the EU Directive 2014/67, as well as adopted so far in other legal acts, including. in the Labour Code, the arrangements implementing the EU Directive 96/71, creating one comprehensive legal act relating to the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The EU Directive 96/71/EC, which has been in force for many years, indicates, inter alia, what working conditions of the host country must be provided for posted workers in the course of their work in that country. The new directive, the implementation of which is the draft law in question, aims in particular at strengthening the enforcement of the rules already in force. In this context, it is worth pointing out that the posting of workers takes place within the framework of the freedom to provide services. It is necessary to distinguish between posting within the framework of this freedom and the principle of free movement of workers, which gives every citizen the right to move freely to another Member State for the purpose of taking up employment and residence in that State and protects them against discrimination as regards employment, remuneration and other working and employment conditions compared to nationals of that Member State. On the other hand, the posted worker is only in another country for a limited period of time, i.e. the duration of the work, does not integrate with the labour market of that country and returns to its country after completion of the work. The purpose of the directive being implemented is to better protect the rights of posted workers in the framework of cross-border provision of services, in particular the enforcement of the employment conditions applicable in the Member State where the service is to be provided, in accordance with Article. 3 Directive 96/71/EC - while facilitating the exercise of the freedom to provide services by service providers and promoting fair competition between service providers. The Directive aims to improve the efficiency of the enforcement of minimum employment conditions in the Member State where the work is to be provided, inter alia. such as standards and working time, daily and weekly rest periods, rest periods, health and safety. In practice, it should eliminate circumvention of the existing rules on posting of workers, while respecting the principle of freedom to provide services. The new Act is to enter into force on 18 June 2016. This is because the Member States of the European Union must adopt by that date the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to implement Directive 2014/67/EU. In view of the provisions of the Implementation Directive, the draft Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services has been defined inter alia. principles: the protection of posted workers from Poland and our country, the control of compliance with the rules on posting of workers, the cooperation of the State Labour Inspection with the competent authorities of other Member States concerning the posting of workers, the cross-border enforcement of administrative fines or administrative fines. The new regulation takes over from the Labour Code provisions concerning employment conditions, which must be guaranteed to posted workers during their work in Poland. An employer posting an employee to our country should provide such an employee with the conditions of employment as set out in the Act concerning, inter alia,: standards and working time, the dimension of rest leave, minimum wage for work, health and safety at work. If a posted worker from Poland or Poland exercises the right to initiate administrative or judicial proceedings against the employer, it will be protected against adverse treatment by the employer. The draft law also regulates the obligations of an employer from another Member State posting a worker to Poland. The draft law also sets out the tasks of the State Labour Inspection in relation to the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. State Labour Inspection, among others. It will work with its counterparts from other Member States, e.g. will inform about the conditions of employment of workers posted to Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The powers of the State Labour Inspection have also been strengthened.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u563	Thank you very much, Commissioner, your time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u564	The Law and Justice Club fully supports the procedated bill in print No 408. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u565	Thank you. Ms Izabela Katarzyna Mrzygłock will now speak:
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform has the honour to present an opinion on the Government's draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the services provided, contained in the Seym printing No 408. Today's project is one of the results of our country's membership of the European Union. The preparation of the directive, which should be reflected in Polish law, was attended by experts, MEPs and officials representing our country. The explanatory memorandum to the Act states that implementation of the legislation will improve, among others. access to information on the conditions of employment in a given country and, consequently, workers posted abroad will be better protected, employers will gain more transparent rules and state institutions will have a facilitated exercise of their control functions vis-à-vis the labour market as a whole. In this way, I would like to remind you that Poland is a member of the European Union, co-creating the rules in force in Poland, not a country that is only implementing the recommendations of Brussels. Undoubtedly, the opinion of the Platform, as well as the social partners assessing the solutions proposed by the government, needs this project. As I said, it regulates a number of unclear issues relating to the posting of workers to work abroad. However, some of the detailed provisions contained in the Act require a broader discussion. Such a problem is, among others. on the deadlines for employers presenting documentation at the request of the State Labour Inspection. It follows from the provisions that the inspection itself has 25 working days to provide information to the competent authorities of another country regarding the situation in the undertaking concerned, whereas the trader himself has only 7 days - previously proposed 5 days - to prepare and transmit the inspection of the relevant documentation. The Social Insurance Institution listed in the Act has 10 working days, so why does the entity that has to collect documents have much less time than the institution that only has to pass these documents on to its counterparts in another country? These issues should be clarified. Of course, most of them will be able to handle such a short period of time when they will require regulations to do so. However, as a law, we should remember that entrepreneurs create jobs and we should interfere as little as possible with the functioning of economic operators. However, it seems that short deadlines, for which failure to comply with sanctions threatens, may be an unnecessary element hindering business activity. This situation leads to another problem. Perhaps the labour inspection, which is responsible for the functioning of the law in practice, needs more time to transmit documents due to staff problems. The explanatory memorandum states that the possible increase in costs associated with changes in the State Labour Inspection will be within the allocated budget for 2016 and will not constitute a basis for applying for additional funding from the State budget to carry out the tasks in question later. We'd like to know exactly what that means. Does the inspection have additional resources to carry out the new tasks, or will it have to develop them? Will new officials be needed, and in what number? These issues should also be clarified. Finally, I will also mention the problem of the inclusion of employees of transport companies and cabotage. There are even more doubts, but we will certainly talk about everything during the procession. As I said, this proposal, which is the implementation of the European Parliament directive, is positive. However, due to some ambiguities concerning specific solutions on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform asks that the project be directed to further work in the parliamentary committees. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u567	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz Club15, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. The proposed law aims to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the enforcement of Directive 96/71 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The current regulations were included in Chapter IIa of Section 2 of the Labour Code.Terms of employment of workers assigned to work in the territory of the Republic of Poland from a country which is a member of the European Union, as well as in the Act on State Labour Inspection. Directive 96/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council, known as the Basic Directive, regulates situations where workers are temporarily posted by their employer to another Member State in the framework of services provided in that State. According to Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Directive 2014/67 requires Member States to adopt, by 18 June 2016, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with it. As we read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, Directive 2014/67, whose implementation is to be ensured by this draft law, aims primarily at ensuring that the appropriate level of protection of the rights of posted workers is respected for the purpose of the cross-border provision of services set out in the basic directive. This includes, in particular, the enforcement of minimum employment conditions applicable in the Member State where the service is to be provided, while facilitating the exercise of the freedom to provide services by service providers and promoting fair competition between service providers and thereby supporting the functioning of the internal market. In conclusion, since the proposed law consequently implies the inclusion in a single legal act of both the provisions implementing the Basic Directive by transferring them from the laws in force and the establishment of new regulations implementing Directive 2014/67, the Poselski Kukiz Club15 does not comment on the proposed proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u569	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik from the Modern Club will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u570	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the draft Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services submitted by the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. In the view of the applicants, the new regulation aims to better protect the rights of posted workers in the provision of services while respecting the principle of freedom to provide these services. The members of the Modern Club support the main idea contained in the proposed bill aimed at clarifying the provisions in order to ensure better protection of workers' rights. However, the detailed analysis of the draft provisions raises numerous reservations about the coherence of the proposals, so further intensive work on the text is desirable. The comments are editorial and strictly substantive. In plenary, we would like to signal some of the substantive doubts which are of fundamental importance in the context of the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services under Directive 2014/67/EU. Case one. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 refers to a temporary worker for work, but there is no clarification on how the concept of temporary work should be treated. This is so important that in accordance with Article. 14 of this law The State Labour Inspection is to have the authority to check and assess whether the posted worker is temporarily working in Poland. We believe that this requires clarification in order to limit disputes on the part of employers and the State Labour Inspection when interpreting this provision. The second problem concerns the intention of accompanying the wording of the rules on joint and several liability. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 this type of responsibility, i.e. both the employer and the person entrusting the work, was foreseen for the project submitted. It raises doubts as to whether the purpose of this provision is indeed to apply joint and several liability only to this narrow category of works related to construction works and maintenance of the building, which seems to be unreasonable, as there is no justification for such special protection only for workers carrying out specific work and at the same time refusing to grant such protection to other workers. In our view, the purpose of this provision should in principle be to protect all workers covered by the Act. The third problem concerns an incomprehensible distinction in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 5 of the draft act on time limits for the provision of information to the State Labour Inspection concerning the activities listed in the draft entities and necessary to be included in response to requests referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point (4) (a) d. The posting employer and the trader are obliged to provide information within 7 days, while the Social Insurance Institution, the heads of tax offices and other public administrations are obliged to provide information within 10 days. Although the deadline has been extended from 5 to 7 days for employers and traders, the question remains to be raised as to the grounds for distinguishing between the deadlines followed by applicants. The proposals put forward can be regarded as an unjustified advantage for public administrations vis-à-vis private operators. Another important question concerns the discrepancy in the concept of posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland and posted workers from the territory of the Republic of Poland. The first applies to the definition of a worker in force under Polish law, while the second applies to the definition in force in the Member State concerned. In the first case, the employee is a person employed on the basis of a contract of employment, appointment, selection, appointment or cooperative employment contract, so any other form of employment, e.g. on the basis of a contract order. In the case of a second employee under Union law, there is a person who fulfils three basic conditions: he/she provides work of specific economic value to another entity, is subject to instructions issued by another entity and, in return for the work he/she receives remuneration and under the law of another Member State, employees may be employed under civil law contracts. Further comments concern the inconsistent use of time limits. There should be no consequence in a law of the rank of a law. In general, it would be advisable to use terminology corresponding to the nomenclature K.p.c. The case concerns, in particular, the terms set out in Article. 3 (variably the territory of the Republic of Poland or the territory of the Republic of Poland) and art. 31 (the term "citizen' should be replaced by "natural persons'.) As you can see, the comments are numerous and essential. I only introduced the most important of them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the above arguments, the Modern Posel Club, supporting the main idea, the idea contained in the proposed bill, will vote in favour of directing this project to further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u571	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u572	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the governmental draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, print no. 408. Ladies and gentlemen, with a view to establishing a single comprehensive regulation on key issues relating to the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, the draft law covers matters as standardised by the Basic Directive and by Directive 2014/67/EU. Consequently, this means that both the provisions implementing the Basic Directive (by transferring them from existing laws) and the establishment of new regulations implementing Directive 2014/67/EU are included in this proposal. The basic Directive required Member States to designate one or more liaison offices or other competent national authorities for administrative cooperation purposes. In Poland, the role of such an office is played by the State Labour Inspection. Furthermore, in accordance with the Basic Directive, it is necessary to ensure that the right to working conditions and employment guaranteed by the Directive in the Member State in whose territory the worker is or has been posted must be brought before the courts, subject to the right to bring legal proceedings in another Member State in accordance with existing international agreements on jurisdiction. In Poland, this obligation has been fulfilled by art. 1103 § 2 of the Civil Procedure Code according to which the employee's actions concerning the provision of conditions of employment in accordance with Article. 671 and Art. 672 Labour Code belongs to national jurisdiction also when the employee is either directed to work in the territory of the Republic of Poland by an employer established in a State which is a member of the European Union. Directive 2014/67/EU, whose implementation is to be ensured by this draft law, aims primarily at ensuring that the corresponding level of protection of the rights of posted workers is respected in order to provide services across borders as defined in the Basic Directive. This includes, in particular, the enforcement of minimum employment conditions applicable in the Member State where the service is to be provided, while facilitating the exercise of the freedom to provide services by service providers and promoting fair competition between service providers. It is worth pointing out that the comments made by employers' organisations and trade unions to the draft Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services are extremely valuable and so important that they have been largely recognised by the designers. Business Center Club, Confederation of Leviatan, Employers of the Republic of Poland are only some organizations reporting substantive, valuable comments, objective and useful to the project, because rational and characterized by normality. The Polish State is obliged to implement the standards dedicated to the countries of the Community and does so. Good and fast proceding and publishing the texts of the bill does not surprise anyone. It is a pity that this good practice does not extend to the publication of other legally binding acts. The Polish People's Party Club is in favour of referring the proposed bill to further work in committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u573	Thank you very much. Five Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions, i.e. a list of persons reported. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, asks you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law assumes that the supervisory authority in matters of posting of workers is to be the State Labour Inspection. Its tasks will be primarily to cooperate with the competent authorities of the Member States in this respect. This is to inform the employment conditions of posted workers and to inform them of irregularities or offences found. The State Labour Inspection will also have the possibility to apply to the competent authority of another Member State with a proposal on important issues such as the provision of information on the posting of workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland or the carrying out of control activities. It will have to respond to requests from other Member States and carry out checks at the request of such authorities. On what scale are these projects going to be on, Minister? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be appropriate departments in the structures of the State Labour Inspection to address these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u575	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u576	Just a minute. Will new employees be employed in the State Labour Inspection? Will the National Labour Inspection budget be increased?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u577	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u578	I'm sorry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u579	Thank you very much. He asks the question of Mr Grzegorz Furgo from the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u580	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have this question: What is the ratio legis of introducing a distinction in the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 5 between deadlines for providing information to the State Labour Inspection? For employees it is 7 working days, and for ZUS and other public administrations - 10 working days. What is the scope of this expression by posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland and does it also cover other forms of employment than those regulated by the Labour Code? Why the Act narrows it down in the article. 4 as laid down in Article. 672 Labour Code Minimum working conditions by changing the general definition of parental rights for the protection of pregnant workers and during maternity leave? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u581	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u582	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The proposed legislation regulates important issues that have been repeatedly highlighted. Apparently, it sounded like the voice of the State Labour Inspection. That is why the extension of the powers which were emphasized by the State Labour Inspection can make sure that the situation of posted workers from the territory of the Republic of Poland and those who will enter our country will improve. I therefore ask the Minister: If the posted worker exercises the right to initiate administrative or judicial proceedings against the employer, he is to be protected from adverse treatment on his part. What will this be like in practice? And second question: What abuses on the part of employers can eliminate the introduction of the provisions of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u583	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mrs Isabella Mrzygłock, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u584	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth noting that Member States are not obliged to implement all the administrative requirements and control measures set out, for example, in the Directive. Don't you think the Minister that by law we are implementing an excessive number of them, because almost all the administrative requirements and control measures mentioned in the directive? After all, they will create red tape, information and obstacles to employers' activities, which will translate into an increase in the administrative costs of entrepreneurs. Have we really chosen the necessary ones to ensure effective monitoring? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u585	Thank you very much. Now the question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u586	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you a few questions. Firstly, would I ask for clarification as to whether the level, the level of penalties included in the proposal is directly derived from the EU directive, or is this the idea of our government? The second point concerns Article. Paragraph 24 2. Would it not be reasonable to determine within what time from receipt of the letter from PIP the person representing employers should appear in the territory of the Republic of Poland? The current record is quite inaccurate and can cause interpretation doubts. I would like to ask, for what reasons such, rather than another, is in the project. The following question: Should the deadline of 5 days for the provision of documents and their translation not be extended, in particular in the context of the penalty imposed in accordance with Article. 27? Is this the date of the directive, or is it a government initiative? I would also like to ask what the significant activity, which results in consequences for entrepreneurs, means in particular. How will this be assessed, what are the details of this concept? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For what purpose can the State Labour Inspection request data on the number of contracts or the volume of turnover obtained in the Member State of establishment of the trader? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u587	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. [[Applause]] The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed, will give a brief reply. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all the clubs for supporting this difficult directive, as you have noticed, which we are implementing, even though we are aware that the European Commission has already taken up work on the revision of this directive, as demonstrated by the fact that at the previous sitting of the Sejm we adopted a special resolution of the Sejm. Today, the Senate will adopt a similar resolution so that the revision of this directive, which we are implementing today, will not take place, because it will significantly impede the functioning of companies posting workers, and I will remind you that Poland is the largest country that delegates its employees. We have data for 2015, it was posted 430 thousand. employees, it is almost 25% all posted workers, i.e. the problem is large. And in this directive, which we are talking about today, giving wider powers to the State Labour Inspection, we clarify most of the provisions that were already in the previous provisions. The State Labour Inspection which carried out this will have even more scope to control this. Questions that concern... This is not an invention of our government, it is a direct result of the directive, so that we do not implement any of our ideas. Questions that were here concerning the time limits for appeal - I would like to remind you that the State Labour Inspection will have a time limit of 25 working days, and those earlier time limits, for example. Entrepreneurs, i.e. other bodies, are shorter so that the inspection can fit in on time. But after these questions about 7 and 10 days, I think that in the committee we are able to communicate and harmonise these deadlines. But this time limit is shorter so that the labour inspection can relate, because this is the result of the directive. The inspection must resolve this within 25 working days, hence those deadlines for the institutions to which the inspection is addressed must be shorter. I understand that temporary referral, temporary posting of workers resulting from the nature of the service provided, joint and several liability - the directive obliges states to introduce such responsibility only in the construction sector. The definition of worker, posting - they are adapted to the concept of worker used in the territory of the country where the work is carried out. Transport - that is what the Member asked. The law will not concern international transport, but will apply to a limited extent to cabotage, i.e. there will be no need to notify or inform about the intention of posting, as well as the storage and availability of documents. Conditions of employment for the protection of pregnant workers and during maternity leave - this is in line with the Basic Directive and this reference to parental rights is now too broad. I think that's how I answered your questions in telegraph. Thanks again for the discussion. I hope that during the committee's work, we will examine and prepare a good bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u589	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u590	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The project aims to implement European Union law, specifically the EU Posting of Workers Directive - Directive 2014/67/EU. The project covers, in general, the establishment conditions for posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Today Poland is a European leader in the posting of workers. For example, in 2014. The U.S.S. spent over 425 thousand. social security certificates for posted workers, there are about 200,000 in this group. Nurses in Germany. It is worth to hire workers partly in Poland, partly in the country of destination due to the method of payment of contributions according to Polish law. Once this directive has been introduced, one contribution will have to be paid - in the country where you work. The delegation will no longer be profitable on such a scale as it has been so far. Questions: 1. Isn't the government concerned about the collapse of the market for posted workers following the introduction of the EU directive? Have estimates been made of the effects of the proposed law on the market today covering several hundred thousand workers, of which almost half work in Germany, where social security contributions are, as you know, much higher? 2. The project contains quite vague definitions of key concepts. For example, according to art. 3 point 5 of the project is to be regarded as a posted worker in the territory of the Republic of Poland as a worker employed in another Member State temporarily directed to work in the territory of the Republic of Poland by an employer posting a worker in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The question arises as to whether this provision refers to a worker within the meaning of the law of another Member State, as it seems to suggest the literal wording of the provision or to a worker within the meaning of Polish law. What if a person who provides work in the territory of the Republic of Poland as a result of secondment from another Member State, who is an employee within the meaning of the Polish Labour Code, is not simultaneously considered to be an employee within the meaning of the law of the Member State from which he is posted?
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u591	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, contained in print No 408, to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 17 May 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft Energy Efficiency Act (Print No.426). I'm going to ask your Undersecretary of State at Andrzej Piotrowski's Ministry of Energy to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u592	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law replaces the Energy Efficiency Act of 15 April 2012 in view of the need to implement Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on energy efficiency, which obliges Member States to achieve the climate and energy targets for 2020. The draft law responds to the raised demands on the need to continue and strengthen the current system to support energy savings, especially in the area of energy end-use. The implementation of the proposed solutions will result in improved energy efficiency of the Polish economy and also in ensuring that the 2020 targets are met. The implementation of the legal regulations contained in the bill will contribute to improving energy efficiency and innovation of the Polish economy. The implementation of energy efficiency projects outside measurable energy savings will also stimulate the competitiveness of Polish companies on the European market, especially those which are highly energy-intensive. The scope of the Act. In particular, the Act concerns end-users, understood as natural or legal persons who purchase energy for their own use, as well as energy undertakings and providers of energy efficiency improvement measures. The draft law aims to introduce legal provisions setting out: firstly, objectives in the field of energy efficiency and energy savings for 2020 for the public sector and for the energy efficiency certificates system, secondly, the rules for drawing up national action plans, the tasks of public sector entities and the rules for implementing the obligations under the energy efficiency certificates system and carrying out the energy audit of the entrepreneur. The draft law on matter regulated by the Act requires entities to carry out an undertaking to improve energy efficiency at the final consumer, confirmed by an energy efficiency audit or to obtain and present to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office a certificate of energy efficiency, and introduces an obligation for energy audit for large enterprises, and lays down the rules for carrying out this audit. In addition, the proposed law also abolishes the obligation to tender, whereby the President of the URE chooses the energy efficiency improvement projects for which energy efficiency certificates can be obtained. This will constitute a significant simplification of the procedure for issuing energy efficiency certificates. The withdrawal of tenders is the result of negative experience in 2013 and 2014 and 2015. The draft law provides for the President of the URE to issue energy efficiency certificates at the request of the entity with which the energy efficiency improvement project will be carried out or the entity authorised by it. Such simplification should significantly speed up the issue of energy efficiency certificates. According to the draft law, energy efficiency certificates will not be issued for projects that have already been carried out. This is due to the need to ensure the compatibility of the proposed energy efficiency certificates system with the new Commission guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy-related objectives in 2014 and 2020 - i.e. 2012/C 200/01 - and in particular with the need to ensure the so-called. the incentive effect of recognising the aid for energy purposes as compatible with the internal market. Expected effects of the Energy Efficiency Act. Financial. The implementation of the tasks set out in the proposed law entrusted to the President of the URE should be carried out in a manner that is as non-financially burdensome as possible to the State budget, which means that it is possible to finance within the expenditure limit set annually in the Budget Act in the appropriate part of the budget, without having to allocate funds above that limit. Other effects. The government energy efficiency project should contribute to the effectiveness of the current energy efficiency certification system, so-called. white certificates, thanks to the simplification of existing procedures and the limitation of the possibility for obliged entities to fulfil their obligations by paying a substitute fee. Reinforcing energy efficiency mechanisms will ensure rational use of natural resources in order to reduce negative impacts on the environment. The introduction of the draft Law on Standards should serve the full and correct implementation of Directive 2012/27/EU and ensure the required improvement of energy efficiency in Poland. In view of the fact that the European Commission opened formal proceedings against Poland on 22 October 2015, i.e. has been forwarded pursuant to Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, a reasoned opinion on the absence of a notification of measures for transposition into national law of the Directive, which I mentioned here, is appropriate to adopt this proposal as soon as possible. Otherwise, there is a real risk that the European Commission will bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union for punishment. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u593	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club regarding the proposed law. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has said, this law is necessary because there are solutions to the European Union which impose certain obligations on us which must be consummated in this legislative proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we will lean forward on this project. Certainly, the opposition will also participate in the work - I think creatively. [[As usual!]] At the moment, I can tell you that a number of different associations have already announced their willingness to participate in the work of the committee, which deal with energy, efficiency and consumer rights. So that we have a very interesting discussion ahead of us. We're open to suggestions. We'll be looking for the right solutions. If there are interesting proposals, we will take them into account. Of course, the proposed Law and Justice project supports and we will begin to work on this project in the near future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo for a brief statement!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u595	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u596	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will make a statement on the Energy Efficiency Act. We have heard of the reasons for implementing this law, a project that will be the subject of work, but I would like to start by reminding things that not everyone remembers. We remember the concern of people in Europe, in the Community, partly in the world for the environment and the adoption of a legal commitment, which was commonly called 3 x 20. Those who discuss see what these 3 x 20s are. We remember, it's in our heads that we need to invest in RES, because it's very important, and we need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, because it's important too. And if we even asked an average professional, what about the third 20%... [[He doesn't know that anymore.]] ...it would turn out that a lot of professionals don't even remember what's going on here. And it's about the most important thing in this tercet: efficiency. Why is it obvious? If we're saving on something, it's saving, first of all, it can speed up the increase in investment, and maybe in the future it will also allow us to put those funds that are saved into something else. They've been working in Parliament for a long time. We also worked and remember well that the discussions were very difficult, also with the opposition then, and now with the government majority, to translate a very difficult topic into law in an effective way, because as a businessman approaches the case, he invests in something that should give him some profits if these expenditures turn to him at some time. He doesn't expect someone to give him some money and then he'll do something and he'll have it in his pocket because it's not business. In a competitive market, you have to show something that allows things to happen. And why were we working on some support? This is because these provisions apply to a large part of those who are not entrepreneurs. These are the final energy consumers, these are the owners of the premises, buildings, etc. So in order to encourage this global business to save money, we had to find a way of supporting it. If we're talking about public institutions, they're always the worst, because they don't spend their money, they just represent the costs of functioning for approval. [[Yes, sir.]] A public institution always feeds itself, because where do the administration's costs come from? We know from the taxpayer's pocket. But in order to be responsible for public finances, to be able to say that we are investing in something that is limited in perspective, this public administration needs to be encouraged to undertake certain projects. If we are talking about private customers, about companies, then the effect of this discussion is tangible, measurable. They knew how to find each other when it comes to records that are, and they also know how to use funds that were meant for that purpose. Firstly, the environmental fund, because it has developed some methods and it has been very effective, secondly, the European funds that have been written down in the "Infrastructure and Environment' programme, have been precise about what is going on. We, too, were discussing what to do with these public institutions in the bill. We wanted to give them a model, and then the decision was that the Ministry of Economy should give an example that at its headquarters should also achieve the intended objectives. Has it reached or not, who's gonna check it if the Ministry of Economy doesn't have it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Now I'd like to add a little bit to all of this, but so gently, Minister. Don't take it as a tour, but the translation that all that we're discussing is caused by Union regulations, etc., a little bit out of time, because there's a bill. Finally, we have - I apologize for this last - a government project, we are glad that it is, but this is not a revolution, Minister, with all due respect. I have carefully read the justification of this bill and found the following statement: Poland has made significant progress in achieving its national energy management objective. [[Bravo!]] It's supported by facts. Like what? At least 9% The savings in 2016 are achieved by taking the average consumption from the 2001-2004 period. Was it Poland in ruins or Poland prepared for action? Did you have to honk on every corner of the street: because we do, because that or that? No. It is simply that a group of people have prepared a good energy policy programme by 2030 and, step by step, the task set out in this programme has been achieved. And what, in my opinion, is the reason why we're doing this today? The reason is the amendment of the Law on Departments, because the Act on Energy Efficiency refers to the Ministry of Infrastructure, to the Ministry of Economy, the Minister of Economy has supervision of the reports of the President of URE. And now life just hasn't kept up, your preparation, because you've made changes before than the willingness of those new ones to analyze data that determines the cost of certain investments. We've discussed here twice about amending the law on guns, and I don't want to justify it, but we remember why, because this, that, that. I don't want to mention it right now, because it's pretty much nothing. The decision has been made, there is a law on guns. However, I would like to ask you not to spoil things that are well prepared so that, on the basis of this law that works, make some adjustments and give people who have learned some things, invest in the future, so that they can continue to benefit from these investments. If we are talking about final recipients, buildings, certificates and certificates, this is a job that many Members have really done fairly, because there is no politics there. You can calculate there, you can read it on a stamp if it's a professional institution or non-professional, approving a given program, whether it is effective or not. Similarly, some things cannot be corrupted by the fact that institutions that could be subject to political influence have been separated to the extent possible from political control. And that institution is the president of URE. The President of URE is an independent person from any ministry at the moment, he has the stability of two terms which are not covered by the parliamentary term. And for this reason - this is already my substantive assessment of some comments - I do not understand why the government at the moment, the Ministry proposes to withdraw from tenders, where an administrative decision is given to the President of URE, and he is working in the appropriate financial framework. It's to be able to... This tender is obvious - we have criteria, there is a bar, something is located between the lower limit and the upper limit, it is to be financed. And if anyone's going to make a decision, it's a discretionary decision, even if it's an independent president, but it's discretionary. The fact that someone has problems, difficulties... this administration always has difficulties, and that we would count on the number of these certificates, is not an excuse either. And one last thing I'd like to say. It is that nothing is chasing us at the moment so that this bill must be now and that in the middle of the year we will change the conditions that are prepared by the end of the year. I mean not to finance or not to submit these offers to the tender, investments that are not yet completed until the entry into force of this law... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna be working on these... And here you can be sure, Minister, that we will work, hoping that the comments I have just mentioned will be discussed. Depending on the final shape of this law, we will either decide whether or not to support it. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u597	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u598	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft Energy Efficiency Act submitted to the High House. It should be made clear at the outset that the law in this form is the consequence of the introduction of European Union legislation into Polish law, the successive stages of the climate and energy package. We are facing a decline in the competitiveness of the European economy vis-à-vis other countries. We are dealing with a high level of energy intensity in Poland. The level of energy intensity must be reduced, that is a fact, but will it affect the lower cost of manufacturing? I'm having second thoughts here. Due to the entry into force of the above-mentioned energy price package for final customers in Poland will increase in the opinion of experts. Billions will have to be paid for CO2 allowances. For the record, the package sets out three main objectives. The first objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, the second - 20% share of renewables in total energy consumption in EU countries, and the third - to increase energy efficiency by 20%. We should also refer to the climate agreement signed in New York on Saturday, 22 April. The signed Paris Agreement of 2015 must ratify all countries. I would remind you that the agreement is expected to enter into force by the end of 2020 at the latest, when the emission reduction targets start to apply. Unfortunately, the agreement provides for systematic elimination of fossil fuels, including coal, from an energy mix. The Government of the Republic of Poland explicitly focuses on new low-carbon fossil fuel combustion technologies. And in general this is a very difficult situation for the Polish economy. The level of legal volatility for the energy-related economic sector is also unpredictable from a business point of view, and this affects energy. Construction of modern manufacturing units as well as comprehensive modernization of existing blocks significantly improve the energy efficiency of Polish power plants, e.g. investment in the modernisation of boilers in the blocks in the Turów power plant, construction of the flue gas denitrification plant in the Lower Odra Power Plant or the flue gas desulfurization system in the Bydgoszcz power plant. Energy efficiency is the ratio of energy savings compared to energy consumed or forecasted. At this point, it is about reducing energy consumption during production, during operation or in the provision of services. For example, in the building this applies to the energy needed for heating, cooling, ventilation, air conditioning or electricity used by any device. The Act as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Poland introduces the provisions of the Directive of 25 October 2012 and sets out: principles for the development of a national energy efficiency action plan, tasks of public sector entities in the field of energy efficiency, the principles of implementation of the obligation to obtain energy savings, the principles of carrying out the energy audit of the undertaking. This directive also defines energy efficiency issues in line with the policy of the European Union and Poland is committed to establishing indicative national targets for energy efficiency. energy efficiency for 2020, based on primary energy consumption or final consumption. You bet on, among other things.: renovating at least 3% of the total area of central government buildings per year; establishing national and long-term strategies to promote investment in renovation of residential, commercial buildings, and developing national energy efficiency or equivalent systems to ensure energy savings for final customers of at least 1,5% annual; in addition, the use of high-efficiency cogeneration and efficient central heating and cooling installations; mandatory and regular energy audits carried out at least every 4 years in large enterprises, except those where certified systems are implemented; encouraging consumers to use energy more cost-effectively through the dissemination of smart grids and meters and providing accurate information on energy bills. I'm moving on to the definition of the most important. An energy efficiency audit shall mean a study containing an analysis of energy consumption and specifying the technical state of the facility, technical equipment or installation, including a list of projects to improve the energy efficiency of the facility, technical equipment or installation, and an assessment of their economic viability and energy savings. Energy efficiency is the ratio of the output of the facility, technical equipment or installation, under typical conditions of use or operation, to the amount of energy consumed on the facility. The requirements for energy efficiency audit under the white certificate system are laid down in the Law Regulation. The emphasis here is on the assessment of the technical condition and the analysis of the energy consumption of the facility. The so-called system. White certificates have been in force in Poland since 2013. Energy companies selling electricity, heat or natural gas to final customers are required to obtain and present for redemption to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, URE, energy efficiency certificate or payment of a substitute fee. White certificates are generally a confirmation of saving a certain amount of energy as a result of investments to improve energy efficiency. White certificates have property rights and are traded on a commodity energy exchange. The savings to be certified in Poland are primary energy for 1 year, and the entities required for certification are energy companies selling electricity, natural gas, network heat to end-users, end-users, commodity brokerage houses and brokerage houses purchasing electricity on the stock exchange on behalf of customers, without installations covered by the EU-ETS system. For the record, ww. responsibilities may be carried out by projects at the end-user to improve energy efficiency, to purchase energy efficiency certificates or to pay a substitute fee. In the URE project, the regulator issues certificates on request to companies that have implemented energy saving projects, and they are only for new projects. To date, there is a complex, difficult, costly tender procedure. The Kukiz Club15 supports the project, but provided that it should be referred to the relevant committees for consideration and further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u599	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u600	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modern for the Energy Efficiency Act. The law directly implements the provisions of Directive 2012/27/EU in national law. On the basis of this law, a national energy efficiency action plan will be drawn up. The tasks of public sector entities in terms of energy efficiency. Rules have also been laid down for the implementation of the obligation to obtain energy savings, which are indicated by the operators to do so. The Act also identifies the relevant national environmental fund as an institution which pursues national objectives in support of investment in the field of energy efficiency. A system based on energy efficiency certificates has also been established and rules have been laid down for carrying out energy audits. The bill also points to the necessary amendments to other laws, such as Energy Law, Environmental Law or, finally, the Environmental Information and Protection Act and Environmental Impact Assessment. In accordance with the provisions of the Article. 57 of the draft Energy Efficiency Act as of the date of entry into force of the draft law submitted in the Seym expires the existing Energy Efficiency Act of 15 April 2011, with the exception of Article. 4 and Article 4 15, which will be in force by the end of this year. The project assumes a 30-day vacathio legis. The latter regulation is, in my opinion, an important problem. It eliminates the possibility of obtaining performance certificates for projects already carried out after 1 January 2011. The lack of possibility of obtaining white certificates for investments carried out backwards will result in the fact that crowds of investors, such as communities, housing cooperatives, but also municipalities or private investors, will not be able to recover part of the expenditure incurred on such projects. The funds recovered could serve further energy-efficient investments, so the benefits would be obvious. This would be an important positive boost for the whole economy, ensuring the development of domestic energy and construction companies, as well as subcontractors of these companies or transport companies. As a result, we would also have to deal with specific budgetary revenues from taxes related to this activity. Most importantly, shortening the duration of the existing clearing mechanism is incompatible with the principle of legal stability. Citizens investing in finance have the right to rely on confidence in the state and its institutions. We cannot destroy this trust, but, on the contrary, we should build and maintain this trust so that Poland becomes a predictable country in every way. In conclusion, in addition to this issue, the draft law seems well prepared, the obligations imposed on our country by that directive have been taken into account, the justification for the proposal has been properly assessed, the source documents have been identified and the proposed solutions have been sufficiently justified. An impact assessment has also been carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u601	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u602	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that none of those sitting in this room need to be convinced that saving energy is very good, and it's best not to just waste it. Energy efficiency is a common sense principle close to anyone who is interested in his own pocket and does not like to pay for something he does not use or cannot use. But what seems so obvious and simple is not always so. More than once, energy savings require investment to improve energy efficiency. Entrepreneurs know that, industry knows that. Energy efficiency is in addition to rationality, or perhaps precisely because of the rationalness enshrined in energy efficiency, as well as the objective of European policy. Although mentioned in the Climate and Energy Package, the need to achieve the 20% target By 2020, until 2012, it was not in a binding way supported at the level of the European Union as a whole. With the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Directive, this has changed. Energy efficiency seems to be a theme that creates a platform for agreement for all policy options. Therefore, the draft submitted, which I hope will be examined in committee, is a good initiative that can be combined rather than shared. However, the open question remains what energy efficiency we want in Poland. And there's no answer to that question. We seem to be adopting a very conservative model here all the time. The Efficiency Act reminds me of driving a new car with a hand brake on it. It is therefore reasonable to ask: Why are we not fully implementing the Directive in its maximum or extended scope? Why do we keep the substitute fee in a rigid frame? What's her level? Why don't we bet on market solutions for white certificates, but we control their level using a replacement fee ceiling? Why are we limiting the catalogue of energy efficiency actions, since it provides room for energy management and monitoring mechanisms, modern applications used in energy, smart buildings and many other actions aimed at more efficient use of energy? In order not to lose Polish energy, it should be used better. The Energy Efficiency Act needs to be looked at in a more open, more modern way. It is not just about blindly implementing European rules and turning off the fields on the list. Poland still has huge reserves to use in terms of efficiency. Therefore, we encourage and call for energy efficiency as the cheapest fuel for the Polish economy to become a permanent element of public action in the macro dimension, i.e. government policy and micro policy. We hope that an example will go in advance that the public sector task set out in the law in terms of efficiency will be implemented and will not be limited to a slight minimum. Public bodies should play a leading role. We also ask the government to present what measures to improve efficiency it will implement as part of its actions towards itself. The request also applies to each of the ministers to present what steps will be taken to improve efficiency within 100 days of the adoption of this Act in relation to the institutions under their authority to the buildings. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to put in a higher gear, because energy efficiency just pays off, because it means better. The Modern Club calls for the bill to be referred to the committee and the amendment proposed by us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u603	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u604	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am glad that we already have a government project, not a parliamentary project, because just now we had a few Members of Parliament, government and parliament, such as those who were appointed. A very important law on energy efficiency. I will not discuss the details here, because it is not possible to resolve such important matters, but maybe more generally. Energy efficiency, the Member here just said this - it is easier to save, it is easier to save, it is cheaper to save than to produce energy. Today, the problem of energy production is changed by many cases, in many editions of this energy we are running out of moments. We already have these periods, 20 degrees of power. If we save money, we don't have to produce energy, we just have energy. All you have to do is not lose her. The question is, why are we doing this? In order to produce less energy, less damage the environment. Here some have stressed that the Union is forcing something on us. Yeah, he's forcing us not to destroy our own environment so that we can live in a better environment and live in the end, because that's what we can come to, that there's no living conditions on Earth. These are different intermediate routes, but above all energy production and here the whole chain from production to transmission to distribution to final customer. New production technologies are emerging, so this production efficiency is also greater there, less raw materials we consume, less harmful or even harmless raw materials, such as renewable energy. The wind isn't harmful or the sun in any way It's not harmful either. If we invest properly, we can produce this energy. Shipment - this is where the problems start, and it's huge, because the big losses are in transit. 10% loss is much, and it is said that in some places losses are much higher, so it is worth investing here and working on it. It's about the transmission lines and all the devices. How can we do that? It's done in different places. Like I said, you can produce different and you have to look for solutions that are most efficient, even though they cost. For example, renewable energy at the investment stage costs a little more, but later, as a result, it is cheaper if we count all these components. As far as the final recipient is concerned, here too... Besides, what we're talking about has been going on for a long time, and we haven't come up with anything new. Thermomodernizations in many objects were conducted and conducted. Solar installations are also energy saving, because you don't need to use electricity to heat up water, it'll heat up itself, the sun will heat up for us, someone will do it for free. But it costs, not always everyone interested, who wants to do it, can afford it. So this shows how little support can sometimes be achieved, such as solar installations. This is where incredible progress has been made, so it's important not just to look at expenses, but at the end result. So a sensible policy in this area, the good solutions that we will propose here, but also a good energy policy in general in the country, is also energy efficiency. The Polish People's Party will support these activities. We're just going to want these regulations that are being proposed right now, changing the solutions we've made so far, to be rational, because there's a series of comments that come down to us, so that we don't just alienate people, if they want to do something, they want to invest, they want to improve their efficiency, and somebody is bothering them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u605	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up, you're welcome. I'm closing the list after the first question. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor. Time - 1 minute. Please don't exceed the time. [[One and a half.]] One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u606	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To date, according to the Public Procurement Law, 569 105 PLN has been used by the government to assess the national potential of heating and cooling. It was sent to the European Commission. It's going to be done right now, but not from the government position, not from the headquarters position, but from the communes. It's kind of small, it's kind of small money, but still. If each municipality now has to carry out such an audit, it will cost far more than achieving the same result from the national position, and adding one task to the other is probably not the best practice. Second thing. From the surrogate fees of the National Environmental Fund, PLN 1 billion were collected, they went for efficiency, but also for RES. Meanwhile, there will now be a reduction in these [[♪ The bell ♪]] replacement fees and reduction of RES actions for the National Environmental Fund. What exactly is enough money in a national environmental fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u607	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u608	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These are the harvests of the last few days that go to the parliamentary offices. They write housing cooperatives, write municipal offices, write real estate offices, write cooperatives, housing communities, TBS and private investors. Everyone is asking us why the entry into force of the Act 30 days from the date of the announcement is to close the possibility of reaching the equivalent, i.e. white certificates, which will restore the funds, at least part of the funds for these energy efficiency measures. Minister! I understand that today we are talking, there is a will to change. Is there any chance you can give these people, these institutions and private owners a chance to reach for the compensation that Minister Czerwiński was talking about? They've invested, they're ready, unfortunately this bill doesn't stand a chance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] who started and made investments after 1 January 2011. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u609	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u610	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Like Mr Gadowski, there are also many representatives of housing cooperatives, community managers and building managers who are concerned about some of the provisions of the draft Energy Efficiency Act. First of all, Minister, there are provisions aimed at eliminating the possibility of obtaining energy-efficiency certificates, so-called. White certificates for energy-efficient projects and investments carried out after 1 January 2011 I request that the Minister introduce an amendment to the provisions of this law. The new law is not applicable until 1 January 2017. Thanks to such a change, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will be able to publish, among others. one invitation to tender for white certificates in the old mode still in force of the Energy Efficiency Act, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and investors will be able to apply for reimbursement of their investments for projects carried out after 1 January 2011. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u611	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u612	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The adoption of the proposed draft Energy Efficiency Act will result in the loss of significant financial resources by many investors, including housing cooperatives, which the existing Energy Efficiency Act has guaranteed by the end of 2016. white certificates. The proposed change will have a negative impact on a large part of society, including residents of housing cooperatives, and these are millions of citizens, as the lack of the possibility of obtaining this certificate from the Energy Regulatory Office will translate into a lack of possibility to recover some of the funds invested, which have so far been used for further green investments. Looking for savings in itself is not a bad legislative action, but actions without long-term plans, actions that can be compared to blind actions will lead to a halt to any investment that serves the public and will also contribute to a reduction in tax revenue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] income, VAT, will reduce the work in the construction industry market and further increase the unemployment rate. It should be possible to obtain further energy-efficiency certificates for investments as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u613	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u614	...energy efficiency completed after January 2011
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u615	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u616	And that's what I'm asking for. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Eve!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u617	You have the floor of Mr Jan Warrzecha, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u618	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The implementation of this project is necessary and justified, but I would like to ask you to clarify some important issues. Will the proposed legislation contribute to increasing final energy savings in relation to the solutions introduced by the previous Energy Efficiency Act of 15 April 2011? How will the proposed rules improve the economic efficiency of the Polish economy and its competitiveness? For this reason, the Act does not contain provisions on the possibility of obtaining energy efficiency certificates, so-called. White certificates, for energy-efficient projects already carried out after 1 January 2011, and should not this possibility be taken into account in the proposed legislation? In view of the call made by a large group of entrepreneurs and individuals, it is not necessary to implement these solutions until 1 January 2017 because it would enable the publication of at least one more [[♪ The bell ♪]] an invitation to tender for the so-called white certificates in the mode set by the Energy Efficiency Act still in force? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u619	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. [[Slowly come, and read quickly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u620	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Incomprehensible to the cooperative and self-government environment are some of the proposals of this Act. A new law in Article. 58 has the provision that it shall enter into force 30 days after the date of its publication, so as soon as it is announced it shall cease to have effect the current law, which should apply until the end of this year. Thousands of investors such as city and commune offices, housing cooperatives, housing communities and private individuals will not be able to recover part of the investment. In view of the current rules, many actors have already taken steps and financial expenditures to benefit from the published and existing rules. I ask the Minister: Is this a good change? Is it consistent with the principle of the stability of the law vis-à-vis citizens to shorten the period of possibility to tender for investment expenditure in previous years during its statutory validity? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u621	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform, has the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u622	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Improving energy efficiency with growing energy demand is a very important direction of Polish energy policy. After the introduction of the Energy Efficiency Act, much has been done in this area, but we are still at the beginning of this good road. Reducing carbon dioxide and other pollutants is not only an obligation under EU legislation, but a concern for ourselves, for future generations. Let me just add that about 34,000 die a year for environmental diseases. persons. The introduction of white certificates has resulted in huge interest of investors, including those housing cooperatives that we have already mentioned here. My housing cooperative in Bielsko-Biała also approached me on this subject. Many public utilities are now afraid that this will not have a return on the funds invested after 2011. Therefore, I ask: will the article be amended. 58 [[♪ The bell ♪]] about the 30-day entry into force of the bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u623	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u624	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Implementation of this draft Energy Efficiency Act is as necessary and necessary as possible. But I'd like to ask you a few questions, Minister. What would be the basis of the article? Article 6 (6) (a) 2 (1) implementing the energy efficiency improvement measure and which projects will be carried out on the basis of this provision according to specific assumptions? Another question. Does the acquisition of a new device, installation or vehicle referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 2 (2) or their modernisation in accordance with Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 (3) will not result in an excessive burden on the budgets of individual public sector entities due to higher prices than analogue products with lower energy specifications? One last question, Minister. Exactly what instruments to finance the energy efficiency improvement measures referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 point 2, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be able to be used by stakeholders to finance planned projects? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u625	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u626	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'm a member of the board of directors of the housing cooperative. My cooperative, a cooperative in Bielsko-Biała, decided to benefit from the benefits of white certificates. We've made quite a lot of investments. We managed to get those funds back. I must say that I fully understand all these housing cooperatives, housing communities, local governments that have been directing in recent days to my mailbox and to my mailbox, requests, calls to lean on this problem and to make sure that the President of URE can once again announce a competition for these certificates so that those who have already invested these funds can recover some of the funds spent. This seems to be a fundamental change that we need to make in this project. I wanted to ask the Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether the Law and Justice will be open enough to make these changes so that they can be recovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u627	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u628	Minister, I'd like to ask you about a replacement fee, which is paid in case... This is the penalty paid for failing to carry out tasks in the field of energy efficiency or in the case of green certificates, if we do not have these green certificates, we do not carry out the energy production of the assumed tasks. Why do you want to reduce renewable energy support? This is not budget money, support for such prosumer energy measures would be advisable and here it would certainly be very efficient. What tasks will then be carried out? Is there any agreement with the National Environmental Fund on these measures collected, let's face it, from penalties paid by end-users? Do you have such arrangements? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u629	Thank you. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz, 15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u630	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to address two issues: the European Union climate and energy package and the national advisory support system energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. I would have one question about the study - a comprehensive assessment of the potential of high-efficiency cogeneration and efficient heating and cooling systems in Poland, such a study was carried out by the British company Ricardo. I would ask you to present the costs and assess the accuracy of this statement in terms of substance. Second question. By the end of 2020, all new buildings are to be nearly zero-energy buildings. Are these real goals to be achieved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u631	Thank you. Mr Włodzimierz Karpiński, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u632	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A very short question, this time not about white certificates. The project requires that a national energy efficiency action plan be drawn up. The Minister is due to submit such a programme to the European Commission at the latest next year. Did the work start when the draft or the project started? Will Members, will the public be familiar with this document? Can we expect this in committee because it will also be such a constitution of action in the country for energy efficiency for the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u633	Thank you. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u634	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, it's happy, we actually listened to voters and people in our districts, and once again I'll mention the white certificates. I think it sounded enough from that speaker to remind you of the article. 58 in this law, which speaks of a 30-day... if we change and implement this law since 2017, so that all these offices, municipalities, housing cooperatives, communities can complete the investments and receive these returns for the projects started after 1 January 2011. Mr Suski encouraged discussion, encouraged work, encouraged amendments. I think all the clubs, all the options here, were talking about this change needed by our voters and, above all, not causing losses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u635	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at Andrzej Piotrowski's Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u636	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of your questions have been going around the same topic, so I'm going to try to take it as a whole. I would like to start one at a time by asking Mr Czerwinski why the project is not revolutionary. The answer is simple. [[It wasn't a question, it was a statement.]] Okay. I assumed it wasn't ad personam. [[I figured there was no revolution.]] Okay. Were you expecting a revolution? [[I didn't expect it.]] Oh, well, since you didn't expect it, we're fulfilling your request. We just don't have much time. I wanted to use this moment to say one thing. Of course, energy efficiency is what we all want to get, with the fact that when I heard about plan 3x20, I assumed that the European Union would focus on financing solutions, innovations that would make energy efficiency a natural decision. whether it is an energy user who is an entrepreneur, whether individual or self-government. That's not what happened. We have introduced a subsidy mechanism as a country in the Union, and it seems to me that that's why we have such a wide range of opinions about what should be done. Should it be paid to those who have already completed, if this instrument is to be used to carry out new tasks? And you can say this: this surcharge comes from the taxpayer's money, from the budget, so for me it's a little bit... Of course, you as Sejm can decide everything and I think that we will listen to these voices to some extent, but I think it is important to think well whether, in fact, this instrument, which is intended to achieve the goal, we should direct as a form of reward for the achievement of this objective. Maybe, maybe not, it's not obvious. [[It was an incentive to start these actions.]] Well, okay, that motivation wasn't there because the bidding wasn't a one-year case. They walked, unfortunately, very laboriously. One may wonder why it was going so badly, but, as the Member has said, the regulator is independent, and therefore it could not be punished, and it was possible to carry out some checks. We thought that since this tendering mechanism did not work out, we would propose a new solution in which we are de facto trying to see every initiative and say: Okay, Mr President, you have basically some efficiency factors to check. If it has been properly demonstrated, compensation should be of a kind. And we assume that this will help to achieve the national goal in terms of energy efficiency. Do we want to introduce a mechanism that can help? This is why the bill goes to the committee to possibly allow you to submit such requests. We are not focused on the lack of discussion around this, but we think that we should all think about it well whether this is really how we want to do it. As for the example of the Ministry of Economy, I admit that the media in your time did not publicise it, just as in our day did not publicise the fact that the entire management was walking up the stairs and in this way we save energy. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[That's bravo. You can't see it...]] Ladies and gentlemen, a question from Mrs. Monica... Excuse me, Mrs. Monica Rosa asked me why a substitute fee is left. Well, first of all, it's an instrument that doesn't go off into space, that is, it reduces costs on the part of the recipient. We've been trying to find some mechanism that determines average expenditures, let's say, for some modernizations, especially for typical energy-intensive companies, and thus solve something. As you know, in such a case, when investments between companies from different industries vary very much in quota terms, such calculations, the average of such calculations illustrates something very strange. However, it seems to us that leaving some element of pressure, but forcing to do so is implemented through a substitute fee. On the other hand, as there were questions, among others. Mr Kasprzyk... Kasprzak, I am very sorry that since we minimize this fee by placing more emphasis on the implementation of the projects, then NFOŚ will still have funds to finance RES installations and activities such as prosumer ones. Let me put it this way: NFOŚ will certainly implement programmes to support renewable energy sources. Whether this is going to be prosumer programmes, we will see, there is not yet a final decision in this area. We will try, above all, to ensure investment in the most efficient sources of RES, and that is why we are currently having a discussion. It will continue in the context of the revision of the RES Act, which you will get to know literally in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kasprzak has yet to address the issue of reducing shipping losses. Poland has not the worst parameters here, these losses are 8% in the transmission network , while 10% That's the sum of everything, along with the supply grid. Technical solutions are used as far as the heating of the wires is limited, and as you know, it is the heating that causes energy losses, and you can go further, you could try, I don't know, dip everything in the helium and say that we have superconduction and there are no losses. Only, ladies and gentlemen, there is always a limit between costs and savings. We do not think that, in an efficient economy, investment by electricity distribution companies in this area will bring some noticeable benefits, although there are still ideas for new innovative solutions. I will mention, for example, the DC lines on which the discussion is ongoing. I'm sure their transmission efficiency is higher. As for the audit by the municipalities, I would point out that this is a little bit like that. From the government level, the implementation of such plans is a certain assessment based on statistics. Auditing is paying attention to specific savings opportunities. If the municipality carries out this audit prudently and does not shake money, it will not be a heavy burden. We assume that saving energy is a benefit to the municipality. Therefore, we are trying to go down to a level that is closer to the source of possible savings. Ladies and gentlemen, it is still possible to make use of the tenders this year. If the situation continues, it seems to us that the possibility of using the tender is illusory, i.e. The chance that the President of the URE would have been able to issue a tender and would have actually dealt with such a large number of applications, as would have been the case with the letters suggested here, is unlikely. In fact, in the light of the information I have at the moment, these are very small amounts of compensation made in this way. Mrs. Eva's question - I'm sorry, I was indistinctly writing it down - Konecka, right? [[Voice from the Kozanecka room.]] Ma'am, this is about building measures. In the case of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 2 (1) is modernisation, in the case of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 2 is the acquisition of a new measure. It could be, for example. thermomodernization, it could be modernization of lighting or new lighting, it could be some change in the heating grid. A fairly wide catalogue of such projects is possible. And like I said, in point 2, it's about the acquisition, so this is where the devices come in. It'll be acquired, I don't know, a better, less energy-intensive refrigerator, right? This type of action may be an example. Mr Karpiński asked about the plan. Such plans have already been drawn up by our predecessors. Now it's going to be the fourth plan. He'll be drawn up next year. It is a government document and is therefore not actually consulted with the High Chamber under such a formal procedure. On the other hand, of course, it will be the subject of environmental discussions on this subject and will certainly be made public so that it can be heard. Of course, the Ministry tries to conduct all its work openly, meet and discuss with stakeholders of individual activities or projects. If you want to influence this plan in any way, suggesting interesting solutions or allowing us to find more effective methods to achieve the objectives, we warmly invite you to report to us. I think it's pretty much exhausting the subject. Like I said, I answered some questions in bulk ad vocem. [[Applause]] [[I wanted a brief correction, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u637	Please, Mr Czerwiński, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u638	Mr. Marshal, briefly, because I argued with the Minister, and I didn't want there to be any confusion in the protocol, and clearly the Minister didn't understand my intentions. I may not have said it very clearly, but I stressed that this is the first government project, as far as the Ministry of Energy is concerned, and does not bring revolutionary solutions that this existing legal act has led to the achievement of the objectives. In total, in terms of energy, we've saved over 50,000. GWh. There was no revolution, because the data we read shows that the current law was going well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u639	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft Energy Efficiency Act in print No.426, to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, on the basis of Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Marshals of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 17 May 2016. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 28 April this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mr Andrzej Kryj, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u640	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A few days ago, on 22 April 2016 in Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the oldest municipal company, the Municipal Communication Company took place. During the 60 years of its existence, the Ostrowiec MPK functioned in various organizational forms and passed the changing turns of fate. Its origins were extremely modest. In April 1956, public public transport was carried out by six buses operating two lines, the length of which was only 13 km. The fact that in the first year of operation, red buses carried around 1.4 million passengers shows how much public bus traffic was needed at the time. The increase in the number of inhabitants of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, the construction of new housing estates and the creation of new workplaces, including the new steelworks of the Ostrowiec steelworks, made the Municipal Communication Company strong, employing more than 500 employees, with nearly 130 buses. On 58 whole-day lines and 43 peak lines were transported on average 147 thousand at the time. passengers a day. The length of the routes was 300 km. It was the time of the company's greatest development. The last few years have been a difficult time for the company. The lack of funding caused the ageing of the bus rolling stock. The decrease in passenger numbers and competition from private carriers resulted in a decrease in the number of transport lines which were only limited at some point to the area of the city. The fact that the company survived is mainly due to its employees, which are currently around 100. Today, the Olympic MPK has 35 buses serving 10 all-day lines and two peak lines. The fact that the last few months have brought stability to the situation in the company is an optimism. Its manifestation is the progressive renewal of the rolling stock for a slightly newer one, produced after 2000 buses. This was made possible by means of funds transferred to the company by the owner, which is the municipality of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski. It is important for the inhabitants that some of the suburban communication lines have been restored. This resulted in an increase in the number of passengers carried. The Management Board of the Municipal Communication Company and the authorities of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski set themselves very ambitious goals for the coming years. The main objective is to provide residents of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski and neighbouring municipalities with modern and secure public transport, which is to guarantee the exchange of buses for completely new, low-floor buses, monitored and equipped with a passenger information system. The funds for their purchase are from the regional operational programme. All this thanks to the accession of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskie to the agreement on the Tricity over the Stone, including Skarżysko and Starachowice. Let us hope that the purchase of new 15 and 20 buses will become a fact. High Izbo! At this point, I would like to express my appreciation for the subsequent boards and all employees of the Ostrowice Municipal Communication Company. Over the 60 years of its existence, it has played and continues to play a great role in the lives of its inhabitants. It allows them to reach schools and businesses safely. It is also a significant work facility that provides a source of livelihood for many families. Therefore, it is important that the plans not only for maintenance but also for further development of the company can be realized. This is what I wish for the crew, management and local authorities of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u641	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated, has the floor. There's no envoy. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor. There is no Member. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Law and Justice have the floor. There isn't either. Mr Czesław Sobierajski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u642	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 20 April, the 143rd anniversary of the birth of Wojciech Korfanty, the great son of Silesian land, the leader of the Polish national movement in Upper Silesia fighting for political, freedom and social rights of the Silesian people, the plebiscite commissioner, the leader of the victorious Third Silesian Uprising, which is the 95th anniversary of which we are celebrating just this year, a Member of the Landtag and Reichstag, the Commissioner of the Supreme People's Council in Poznań during the Uprising of Greater Poland, a Minister for Army and Politics, a Member of the Polish Parliament and the Silesian Sejm, a Senator of the Republic of Poland, a journalist, a journalist, a publicist, a leader of Christian Democracy. I would like to pay Wojciech Korfantem, with the highest respect, due tribute and thanks for the great things he has done for Silesia and Poland, especially for the greatest work of his life, which was to reunite the Upper Silesia with Poland. Wojciech Korfanty was born on 20 April 1873 in Sadzawka, a labor settlement, today the Siemianowice Silesian district, in the family of Józef Korfantego, a miner, and Karolina from Klechów, as the oldest of five children. He grew up in an ethnic Polish environment. He started school at the folk school. Further education continued in the middle school in Katowice, from which for his anti-German activities and the pro-Polish posture just before graduation he was relegated and burdened with the so-called. A wolf passport. This deepened young Wojciech's sense of patriotism. As he himself said: The merit of my national awareness I must assign to hakatistic professors in middle school, who disgusted everything Polish and Catholic, aroused curiosity in me in the Polish book, from which I wanted to learn what this debased and humiliated nation, whose language in my family I spoke. And I loved my people, my past, and his sum, and felt his son. On the school bench I tried to instill in my colleagues, as I did at home in Polish speaking, love for Poland and pride in her past. Without contact with the youth in other districts, I started secret circles in middle school where we read in the history of the nation, in the masterpieces of our poets, we learned to speak and write correctly in Polish. He passed his math extremely well when he was 22. He then started his studies at the University of Technology, and in 1898 he moved to Wrocław, where he studied law and economics. Korfanty was a brilliant political career. He began to publish the Polish magazine "Górnoślązak." In 1903, he won the Reichstag elections and entered the Polish circle bravely as the first Member from Upper Silesia. It was a turning point in Silesian history. Wojciech Korfanty experienced many injustices in his life on the part of those who ruled the Second Common Era, including imprisonment and emigration, but he always believed in Poland for which he devoted his entire life. The message of Wojciech Korfanty to the Silesian people, which was placed on the every corner of his monument on pl. Sejm Śląskiego in Katowice: One thing I ask of the Silesian people, namely to be faithful to his Christian principles and to his attachment to Poland, so that he does not cease in his work and dedication to make Poland worthy of our dreams, Poland great, power, Catholic Poland, the rule of law and always fair. What a reply, Wojciech Korfanty's request to the Silesian people is valid today, when various extreme groups, false prophets undermine Silesian Polishness, distort the truth about Silesian uprisings. Let us resist those who divide and antagonize the Silesian people. Let us not let the blood victims of our heroic forefathers fighting against the German aggressor for Silesia's Polishness. Wojciech Korfanty died on 17 August 1939 in Warsaw, shortly after his release from prison. His funeral, which took place in Katowice on August 20, 1939, turned into a great manifestation, thousands of Silesians saying goodbye to their beloved leader. He was buried in Katowice in a cemetery on the street. French. Wojciech Korfanty lived his entire life sacrificially in constant service to Silesia and Poland. Through his love of his homeland and great sacrifice, he made part of Upper Silesia return to Poland. Let the memory of Wojciech Korfanty, a wonderful man: Silesian, Polish and European will always be alive and a model for all of us and for the generations to come. For we can all find a guide in it today among the dilemmas before which our generation also stands. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u643	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u644	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we celebrate the World Day of Safety and Health at Work and the International Day of Remembrance of Victims of Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases. The celebration, celebrated annually on 28 April, was proclaimed in 2003 by the International Labour Organisation in cooperation with the World Health Organisation and the International Confederation of Trade Unions. The aim of this day is to remind you that promoting and creating a culture of safe work can reduce the number of people who have died in connection with working conditions. The celebrations are dedicated to the memory of workers who have suffered accidents at work, have suffered occupational diseases or have died in the course of their work. They are also an opportunity to promote labour safety issues, forms and ways of avoiding risks and protecting workers in the work process. On 28 April, therefore, it is both a day to mention the victims and an opportunity to disseminate knowledge of occupational safety problems. In the past, on 28 April, trade unions organised large rallies, industry strikes, educational and lobbying events and information campaigns. In many countries it is also an opportunity to organize demonstrations, protests and information campaigns. According to the International Labour Organisation and the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, there are 270 million accidents at work every year, of which 350 000. it's fatal, it's almost $1,000. a day. Each year in Poland, about 300 people die from accidents at work, and another 600 suffer serious injury due to severe accidents at work. The National Labour Inspection reports show that among the main causes of accidents are: inappropriate organisation of work, lack of health and safety training, and poor health of psychophysical workers and workers caused by too long working time and fatigue. Ladies and gentlemen! The above data should be a starting point for creating more effective programmes for building a safety culture at work in Poland, based on the commitment and cooperation of all stakeholders: employers, health and safety services, state institutions and employees' representatives, including trade unions and social labour inspectors. A world day of health and safety at work and the International Day of Remembrance of Accident Victims at Work and Occupational Diseases can be an opportunity to make employers aware of the responsibility they bear for their employees, especially in times of globalisation. This is an opportunity for action to improve public health, increase the level of health and safety at work, the state of which is an indicator of quality of life and health of most people in every society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u645	Thank you. Katarzyna Czochar, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u646	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Already in 3 days, 2 May, for the 12th time in our country we will celebrate a special celebration - the celebration of the national flag. From this point on, I would like to say a few words about this relatively young holiday. On 20 February 2004, the Sejm established the Flag Day of the Republic of Poland. This day is May 2nd. A holiday is an expression. not only respect for our national symbols, which each of us should know and understand, but it is also a tribute to those who fought for these symbols and gave their lives for them. The celebrations of the national flag become a manifestation of patriotism and love of our homeland. This celebration is celebrated and celebrated by many countries around the world. For these holidays, children and young people in particular are prepared to uphold national, national and cultural traditions in the future. In our Polish society this holiday is becoming more and more famous. At a time of globalization, it is very important to point out that it is our duty to preserve and cultivate national identities and traditions that no one will take from us unless we neglect them. Both white and red have a heraldic meaning. And you can boldly appeal directly to the white-red kothillions that the insurgents assumed in November. For them white meant the good and purity of the aspirations of the Polish people, while red symbolized the dignity and majesty of our nation. These two colours are nothing more than an illustration of who we as Poles should be and what ideal we are going to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that in a small village in Opole Voivodeship, in the Prudnice district, in Moszczance, where I come from, there have been celebrations of the Flag Day of the Republic of Poland for many years. Mostanka was one of the pioneers in promoting this young holiday. In 2008 a national flag celebration was first organised in Mostzka, which gained the rank of the voivodeship celebrations after a year. This year, on May 2nd, we will celebrate the celebration of the national flag in our village for the ninth time. I would like to stress that also the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, has engaged in our celebrations, including the above mentioned celebrations with honorary patronage. Moszczanka and its inhabitants are an ideal example of how much the organized rural community can do for Polishness. All the more so is the fact that these actions are closely related to the patriotic values and respect for the symbols of our nation, creating and shaping the image of an exemplary patriot and citizen by undertaking numerous civic activities, while at the same time strengthening the position and shaping the good image of Poland among the inhabitants of the region and the country. The celebration of the national flag is a symbol of the integrity of our nation, its great tradition and history, a symbol of our bravery and freedom. And that's what we should always remember. Ladies and gentlemen! From this point of view, I would also like to thank all those who are involved in the organisation of national flag celebrations throughout Poland, and at the same time to thank and encourage all Poles to participate in these important celebrations for us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u647	Thank you. Mr Leszek Galemba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u648	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our homeland celebrates the anniversary - the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. Worshiping the memory of this groundbreaking event in the history of our nation by a special resolution of 22 December 2015, the Polish Parliament established 2016 as the Year of the 1050th anniversary of the Polish Baptism. We reach with memory to the beginning of the Polish state, which was born on Greater Poland's land. On 14 and 16 April the central celebrations related to this anniversary took place in Wielkopolska. For the first time outside Warsaw, the National Assembly met, during which President Andrzej Duda appeared with a major message recognized by the listeners as the Message of the 1050th anniversary. I would like to stress in my statement that local communities have also been very active in celebrating this special anniversary. On this occasion, the Museum of Ceramic Techniques in Kole prepared a commemorative exhibition entitled: The Birth of Poland. It shows events from 966 through the prism of the chronicles Galla Anonymous, Jan Długosz, Wincenty Kadłubek, Cosmas and Thietmar. The circumstances, the course of baptism of the House I and the procedures aimed at spreading the Christian tradition on Polish lands were presented. Special attention was paid to the reception of the exhibition in the form of a discussion of events from 1050 years ago. The works of the chroniclers, their language, the presentation of characters constitute a reason for learning about the culture of Poland of the past centuries. Reading the ancient chronicles, we yield to their charm, the unusual mood of the writer's studio centuries ago. The heroes of the exhibition are not only historical events but chronicles and chronicles. The chronicle texts are illustrated by copies of cards of centuries-old books prescribed by hand, with manuscripts characteristic of ornaments, but also notes on margins, signs of time on paper cards. For this purpose, manuscripts from the National Library in Warsaw and the Monument Germaniae Historic archive in Munich were used. This made the exhibition interesting in the field of graphics. At the exhibition you can also see the illustrated saga of Piotr Janowczyk, the Duke of Mesco, prepared for the order of the National Centre of Culture on the occasion of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism. This proposal should be of particular interest to younger audiences, because the author presented historical facts in the form of suggestive graphics described by short, one-handed descriptions referring to the works of medieval chroniclers. Nor could the reproduction of the works of John Matejka be missed, depicting a breakthrough event in the history of our nation. An important part of the exhibition are exhibits from collections of Colski collectors and collectors. Among them we will see and unique, reaching the beginnings of Christendom on our earth, found in Kole and its surroundings. They will guide Christendom's formation, strengthening and development. A specific complement to the exhibition are the folk sculptures of Kazimierz Wysocki referring to the time of the Living I. On the other hand, we will see a series of watercolours of Tadeusz Osinski showing the beauty of the temples of the colic land. By paying attention to the role of shaping the historical consciousness of our society, and especially its youngest part, I had the privilege of taking the exhibition in a circular manner with my honorary patronage and making its solemn opening on 18 April. I would like to thank all those who contributed to its creation and exhibition of a worthy anniversary of the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, for their commitment and creativity. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u649	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice have the floor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year we celebrate the 670th anniversary of the granting of city rights to Bydgoszcz. The beginnings of Bydgoszcz date back to the first half of the 11th century, since this border fortress protected the Polish Kingdom from the invasions of Pomerania, Prussians and later the Teutonic Knights who took it for several years. Shortly after the recovery of the castle, on April 19, 1346, Kazimierz Wielki issued an act of location of the new city of Bydgoszcz on Magdeburg law. Bydgoszcz has a very complex history. She had blooming seasons, but she was also devastated by wars, lootings, and plagues. It has been Germanized in recent centuries, and for its patriotic attitude its inhabitants have experienced the cruelty of Nazi invaders. It is important that the history of Bydgoszcz be made more acquainted not only with its inhabitants, as it results from experience and conclusions for the whole country. From the beginning of its history Bydgoszcz has been an important port thanks to the development of beer, grain and salt trade. By the middle of the 17th century, it was a very important old-Polish trading city due to the scale of trade. The Prussian extortioner also appreciated the city's strategic economic location by building the Bydgoszcz Canal opening the trade route to Western Europe. Built between 1773 and 1774 by 10,000. The canal is the oldest artificial waterway on Polish soil. This ensured excellent economic development for Bydgoszcz. Innovative socio-economic institutions, national customs chambers, the Trade Council and the merchant company were created. It is worth recalling these facts from the history of Bydgoszcz in the context of huge havoc and negligence in the field of inland waterway transport in Poland. The renewal and expansion of river shipping infrastructure requires a great financial effort from the state. However, it is a long-term viable and necessary investment, also for economic, tourist and environmental reasons. It is also necessary to restore the Vistula for its comprehensive use and to eliminate artificial barriers created by the SLD-PSL coalition after 2003 for its navigable and energetic development through unjustified, sneaky coverage of the entire Vistula from Włocławek to the Baltic with Natura 2000. This was done under the pressure of a few but noisy environmental organizations, which in the interest of developed countries of Western Europe would like to make a green open-air museum from Poland. The eight-year PO-PSL governing coalition has not taken effective steps to remedy the very disadvantage of water and energy management. Bydgoszcz Water Node due to its location in the Vistula and Oder flood area can provide convenient connections to Western and Eastern European waterways. In far-reaching plans of Poland, the European Union and international transport organisations, this must be remembered. At the same time, the negligence of the previous ruling team, PO-PSL, and the lack of understanding between local authorities PO, SLD, Left Together and Voivodeship authorities PO-PSL make the city of Bydgoszcz not so developed that residents, companies and future investors were fully satisfied. Therefore, I ask the Ministry of the Environment, which supervises national water management, to revise existing and planned solutions in the field of water, inland transport and energy in line with the real needs of the Polish economy and the environment. At the same time, I ask the Ministry of Infrastructure to verify and act quickly on road infrastructure needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u651	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u652	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will make this statement on my own behalf and Mrs Ratchurek-Żelazko. The work cannot be treated - never and nowhere - as a commodity, because man cannot be a commodity to man, said John Paul II in a homily for the world of work. These words were written in Gdansk in 1987, but they are also valid today. On 28 April the World Day of Safety and Health Protection at Work is celebrated, in Poland proclaimed by the 2003 Sejm resolution. This is an exceptional occasion for commemorating all victims of accidents at work, but at the same time, which I believe is the most important challenge, a continuous effort to improve the safety of working conditions and the protection of working health. Today, a session of the Labour Protection Council commemorating the victims of accidents at work and occupational diseases took place in the Sejm. Security needs to be discussed. Specific and realistic solutions should be supported while listening carefully to the voice of employers and trade unions. Every year, nearly 300 people die in accidents at work. It should be noted that the trend has been clearly decreasing for several years, but this statistics do not fully reflect reality. For many people do work on a different basis than the employment relationship, e.g. in the field of so-called garbage contracts for which accidents are not included in the statistics. Poland appears, unfortunately, as a European leader in garbage contracts. Law and Justice are going to change that. Other information also raises concern. 30% of victims are young people whose traineeship is less than 2 years old. Not only lack of experience but, above all, appropriate training must be considered a cause. However, scientific research has shown clearly that prevention measures are much less costly than rehabilitation. Many accidents are also the case for older and experienced people over the age of 50. Events in this group are more serious and their causes include sudden morbidity, physical indisposition, as well as professional burnout. There are also many road accidents, which are often caused by stress, uncertainty and instability in employment. Therefore, according to the words of the Polish Pope, work cannot be treated as goods. Nor is human health and life a commodity. This is in the context of the end of today's session of the Labour Protection Council, addressed to the Polish Parliament, the call for support and creation of measures to improve safety and health at work. And from this point on, I would like to assure you that the Government of Law and Justice is already taking these measures. Law and Justice strengthens the role of the State Labour Inspection and prepares new provisions of the Labour Code, supporting young workers. We end the first-day syndrome and implement the promise of a minimum hourly salary of 12 PLN gross per hour of work on the basis of a contract order. Improving working conditions and wages will also result in greater safety and health protection. After years of government of the PO-PSL coalition and treating Polish workers as modern slaves we want to restore dignity, good pay and safe working conditions. On this special day I wish all Poles working for a safe and well-paid job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u653	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko is not here? There isn't. We've finished with the points...
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u654	A message for the 170th anniversary of Henryk Sienkiewicz's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 5 May this year. It's going to be 170. The anniversary of the birth of Henryk Sienkiewicz - an outstanding novelist, novelist, publicist, first Pole honored with the Nobel Prize in Literature. Henryk Sienkiewicz coat of arms Oszyk was born in 1846 in Wola Okrrzejska in Podlasie. He was from a poor noble family. After many moves at the age of 15, he and his family moved to Warsaw. As a 17 - year - old, he wanted to take part in the January Uprising, but he was not allowed to fight because of his young age. In 1864 he won his first prize for the work of Żółkiewski for the army at Cecora. At school, however, he didn't get high marks, and his best course was in humanities. After obtaining the certificate of maturity, according to the wishes of the parents of doctors, Sienkiewicz passed to the Medical Department of the Warsaw School. In time, he resigned from his medical career and went to law school. In the end, however, he moved to the philological and historical department. Sienkiewicz wrote under the nickname Lithuanians to the Polish Gazeta and Niva. In February 1876 he and a group of friends went to the United States. During this journey there was created among others. a series of reports entitled Letters from traveling to America, as well as novels such as the Lantern or the Sachem. The writer returned to Europe after two years. He then lived in London, and then stayed in Paris for a year. During that time, a novel was created: Janko Muzykant. In 1881, he married Maria Szetkiewicz, with whom he had two children. Four years after Maria was married, she died of tuberculosis. Between May 1883 and March 1884 Sienkiewicz's novel with fire and sword was printed in the Warsaw diary. Both this and other parts of the Trilogy have brought him great popularity and made him the most popular Polish writer. In 1884 the first episodes of Quo vadis were published. Six years later, Henryk Sienkiewicz released the Krzyżaków. In the 25th anniversary of creative work, the writer was appreciated by the nation. At that time he received the estate in Oblęgorek, where today the Museum of Henryk Sienkiewicz is located. In 1905, the writer received the Nobel Prize for his entire work. In his speech on this occasion, Sienkiewicz said that this privilege is particularly valuable to the son of Poland: "She was voiced dead, and here was one of thousands of proofs that she was alive. That same year he became one of the founders of the Polish School Mothers Society. He was also a member of the Secret Teaching Society in Warsaw. After the outbreak of the war, Henryk Sienkiewicz went to Switzerland, where together with Ignacy Jan Paderewski he was one of the co-founders of the Swiss General Committee for Aid to War Victims in Poland. In 1916 he received the prize of Erasmus and Anna Jerzmanowski Foundation awarded by the Polish Academy of Skills. Henryk Sienkiewicz died on 15 November 1916 in Vevey, Switzerland and was buried there. Eight years later, the writer's ashes were brought into the country and solemnly buried in the undergrounds of St. Jana in Warsaw. Because it's 170 this year. The anniversary of Henryk Sienkiewicz's birth and the 100th anniversary of his death, 2016 was established the Year of Henryk Sienkiewicz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u655	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Every year, April 22nd, Earth Day aims to promote environmental attitudes in society. The celebration programme is designed to raise awareness of the dangers facing our planet to society and to encourage ecological behaviour. The history of World Earth Day dates back to 1970, when environmental activists decided to name environmental promotion activities organised on 22 April. This initiative proved to be a great success, and it became the beginning of the annual celebrations promoted by American Senator Nelson. In 2009, the Council On April 22, the United Nations announced World Mother Earth Day. The organizers of Earth Day have a specific goal - to make politicians and citizens aware of the danger of ecosystems as a result of human activity. International Earth Day is an annual effort to promote environmental attitudes among the people of our planet. Organic organisations organise various workshops, exhibitions, numerous competitions to bring society closer to the current problems of the functioning of the modern world. April 22 is certainly the most ecological date of the year. It reminds us that we should respect our place of residence, to which we owe so much, but we rarely think about it every day. I appeal to all parliamentarians with an appeal - let us take care of our planet in the care of the future of future generations.
ParlaMint-PL_2016-04-28-sejm-17-2.u656	No, I'm sorry, that's where we ended our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. On 29 April 2016, by 3 p.m. 9. Have a good night. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 59]]
